tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Mr. Tevfik Ziyaeddin Akbulut, a member of Tekirdağ who asked the Turkish economy to comment on the impressions of the Mediterranean Parliament's Assembly's meeting in Jordan Amman. Here you are, Mr. Akbulut.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect as you begin my words. As you all know, the world's economic crisis has continued since 2007 and 2008. Despite this crisis, Turkey remains economic stability. Last year, with $134 billion in exports, the record of republican history was broken. In the last three quarters of 2011, we became the world's first and the world's second in economic growth. Last week, a famous businessman made an assessment of the economy, and many of you have read it. He says this is our businessman: it's a place of fire, but Turkey is like an oasis in the desert. The influence of the government to make important and good decisions is great. I agree. Because of this crisis -- you all know -- we're all watching what happened in Greece, Spain, Italy and other European countries. There are always those of you who go abroad these days, and you attend various formal meetings. We're looking at how our country's economic situation is being looked at with envy, how our reputations have been greatly elevated. At the beginning of last week, the Mediterranean Parliament Assembly, where I was stationed, had a meeting in Amman, the capital of Jordan. The agenda of this meeting included proposals for a solution to the unemployment problem in Mediterranean countries. In February 2009, I mentioned how our unemployment rate rose to 16.1 per cent in February 2009, and was reduced to 9.1 per cent in October 2011, November. Other representatives of the country -- Italy, Portugal, France -- were among them -- have made very positive statements about our country's economy, suggesting that our experience in the economy be model and model to other countries, and that it would certainly be good for a minister responsible for the economy to participate in the following meetings. This attention and respect for our country have moved me as much as anyone else, and I've had the opportunity to see the value of our country, the value of it, the value of it, from abroad. Of course, any friend of mine who goes abroad, attends meetings there, listens to the public will share such positive comments. Despite the world crisis of our economy, I would like to thank the ministers and all government officials, especially our Prime Minister, who are in charge of the economy, who have been able to work with these successful, stable, protected measures in their process, and I would like to thank you all for their love and respect.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Akbulut. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Adıyaman MP Mohammed Murtaza Eğyük, who wants to talk about the potential of tourism in the province of Adıyaman. Here you go, Mr. Catcher.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the potential of tourism of Adıyaman, the pearl of the Southeast, with its historical and cultural texture. I salute your committee. The studies of the Palanite Cave in Adıyaman have been documented that the history of the city dates back to the 40 thousandth century. It has hosted 16 different civilizations, home to them, Adıyaman has taken over historical relics and cultural deposits from all of them. Adıyaman is a candidate for cultural tourism, not just Turkey, but one of the most important centers in the world. The entire Kingdom of Nemrod and Kommagene, one of the 10 places registered to the world cultural heritage in Turkey, is located within the borders of Adıyaman. Since the remains of the Kingdom of Kommagene symbolize a unique civilization, FIJET has awarded the Golden Apple Award, known as World Tourism Oscar. The kingdom of Kommagene ruled in this land, and the historical arms of the kingdom stretched to the centre of Adıyaman. The earth's first whistle is made from earth, the first of which was documented by the wheel, and the rich Adıyaman Museum, with its 30,000 works, awaits its visitors. From the ancient town of Perre in Adıyaman's centre, a time travel is literally made in history as they travel from the ancient town of Perre to the tumors of Mount Nimrod. The second largest bridge in the world, built by the Romans nearly 2,000 years ago, is the Cendere Bridge, where the queens are buried, the Blackbird Tumulion, the summer headquarters of civilization, Arsemia, and tens of unique building guests. Adıyaman has cultural heritage and historical wealth that would deserve to be a brand city in the wake of its historical and cultural riches. For this reason, our Adıyaman province is part of a brand city in accordance with the government's 2023 goals. Adding a railway network of our government's feasibility studies to the airway transport available in our province, the potential for the city to become a brand city will be even faster. Adıyaman also has the chance to be the center of faith tourism. Adıyaman is one of the provinces where different languages, religions, and sects can live together in peace. Our surprising citizens are free to attend their meetings at the Church of Purple Peter. On the other hand, the tomb is located in Adıyaman, the tomb of Safvan bin Muattal, one of the two territorys known for certain documents. The Sahabe Brotherhood Project, which will be held by the chairman of the Diabe Foundation, will begin with Kutlu Birth Week events from Eyüp Sultan (Job Sultan) in İstanbul and end with Safvan bin Muattal tomb in Adıyaman. Thus, faith tourism on the Istanbul-Adıyaman line will enter a new process. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you know, more than 300 million people in the world are employed in the tourism industry. Turkey is among the top ten countries in the world in tourism revenues. Our government's 2023 goal is to enter the top five countries and allow 50 million tourists to visit our country a year. Adıyaman, who holds many historical and natural beautys, has a rare potential in the world, with 210 registered cultural presences, as well as history. Given that even cities that have only one or several of them attract millions of tourists, the way Adıyaman will take to becoming a brand city will give our country huge advantages, especially the people of the region. With these thoughts, I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Catcher. The third non-responsive statement is from Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova, who wants to talk about problems in the production of olives and olive oil. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the production of olives and olive oil and the problems in the sector. The home of the olive, a symbol of friendship and peace, is Anatolia. Wild olives have been known to exist in Anatolia for 50,000 years. The olive tree is in all the scriptures. Olives are an important source of economic value and income as both agricultural and industrial products. As of 2010, Balıkesir, our country meets 17.6 per cent of oiled olives. With the government's support, the Bureau's decision to do so in Burhaniye (Burhaniye) is a project that will lead and model our country and the olive industry sector for the process of olive and olive products. This project, whose input is olives, will solve the problem of blackwater, which is a problem because of the collection of all facilities in one area, and also the marinated water of the olive factories. In this sense, we expect the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology to support this model project. The olive oil entrepreneur has many challenges: the low habit of consuming oil in society, the lack of knowledge of health relations with the organoleptic character of olive oil by consumers, the fact that we have refrigeration in the European Union while we have the control of infiltration, the fact that the entrepreneur does not choose the right type of olive and agricultural application in its locality, the lack of economic power in the industry, the opening of new plant areas instead of increasing production quality and efficiency. Promotion of olives and olive oil, which is essential for a healthy life, increased consumption, expansion of the domestic and external market, low productivity and quality in production, education of olive makers and producers, development and development of licensed stock markets, study and development of species and primary problems in plant production, detection and solution proposals, and development of olivery should be considered as a state policy. The research commission must be established in order to investigate the problems of the olive and olive oil sector and to determine the necessary measures for the development of the sector. Another problem is that olive oil is the only agricultural product that has been processed and supported. The other crops are supported in the way they come out of the garden, while the raw olive is given to olive oil, which is used to support it. The production costs $332.5 of a tractorless farmer -- which is produced in a dekar area -- which is 12 trees -- is 287 TL of a tractor farmer. As Balıkesir MP, I ask: Is it possible to compete in these conditions? This year, the higher costs, the lack of state support for olive oil, have increased files in executions because our olive producers can't pay their loans to the bank. Many farmers are sold out of their grandfather olive groves. The most important factors for increasing olive production are fertilizer, diesel and medicine. In this harvest season, there is a loss of production based only on 40 percent, due to the fact that the fertilizer is in place and not being used properly. To ensure the continuity of production, it is imperative that the farmer take the necessary measures needed by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism to bring the prices down so that they can use diesel, fertilizer and medicine. The production costs, which are paid per kilogram of the product, should be increased by considering the increase in inflation. The olive producer is very victimised, since the support premium has not been increased by inflation. The 50-cent support premium for the 2011-2012 period is insufficient. The support premium must be paid on time in a more stable frame and increased by increasing inflation. The olive production of Balıkesir is more efficient than the tree it owns in Turkey. As you can see from these figures, Balıkesir County, Turkey has an important share in the production of olives and olive oil, and olivery is an important source of income for the people of the Gulf. This season, the average price of 1 kilogram of olive oil -- you know, olive oil -- is $6 -- is the farmer's average price, the tin of five litres of olive oil, 18 percent of VAT, 2 percent of it, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...at least 10 per cent of the market profits and the fillings of the factory are sold for an average of 60 liras, including shipping and profit. The profit is in the hands of the middle man, not the original manufacturer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you, Mr. Akova. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The MPs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forests and Water Affairs, wanted to answer questions in the region of the agenda, 1, 4, 53, 123, 124, 147, 150, 187, 209, 213, 229, 240, 251, 258, 350, 351, 359, 367, 370, 371, 372, 410, 426, 454, 573, 614 and 686. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98 on measures that must be taken by investigating the problems of farmers in the Slap Province. Your index is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and submit a parliamentary investigation. [[Mersin]] 2) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Aydın]] 4) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Manisa]] [[Kütahya]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] As in our country's entire country, the situation of our farmer trying to farm in Slap County has become more difficult every day, so he can't farm. The rising costs of Seeds, Fertilizers, Mazots, and Ziraite fighting medicines used in agricultural fields have also left our farmer in a very difficult position, leaving his field unplantable financially, when the value of the product he produces is reduced year by year under difficult circumstances. This has increased migrations throughout the province of Tokat. Because the farmer's products did not cost money, they were unable to pay their debts to the tradesmen and banks. In our province, which stands with agriculture-based economy, the farmer is also affected by the tradesman. In our province, the closing of the Teel Cigarette Factory and the quota system, especially for industrial products, are tied up in our farmer's hands. This affects all our production and consumption sectors from base to ceiling. When these troubles are united, the farmer who has almost no debt has not left. In addition to all of this, 2009-2010 has not been a productive year for our farmers. First, they lost their crops because of the hailing disaster, then because of the extreme heat. Erbaa district Karayaka, Çalkara, Grape farmers are almost in a position to give up production of wheat, onions, watermelons because their crops are not making money. Zile farmers have damaged wheat. His TMO didn't show enough support for the farmer, the manufacturer sold his product at a very cheap price. The farmers of Kazova and the Plains of Artova are concerned about what they will do about the coming years, what they will plant as a team. If this continues, our farmers will have a very difficult future. Because the product he produced was unable to cover his expenses. As this situation is seeking a cure for unemployment, it will add new ones to the increasingly unemployed army, and there will be more migrations to the Metropolitans. The investigation of the issue by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey would be helpful to correct the situation of our farmers, who are in this situation both in our province and across the country. That's what our research proposal is for. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, With respect to the need for the opening of Parliamental Research, under Articles 104, 105, and 104, of the Turkish Parliamentary Charter 104, for the purpose of investigating the Damages caused by the Simav Earthquake and the Precautive Precautions. 13.10.2011 [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] 4) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] 7) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Elazığ]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] 14) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Ankara]] 16) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Aydın]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Tripoli]] [[Erzurum]] [[Kayseri]] 24) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] The 5.9 Simav earthquake, which was effective in the districts of Simav County in Simav, Gediz, Forarcık, Markets and Shapane on 19 May 2011, seriously affected the lives of our people living in the districts of Kütahya. Those who have suffered this great disaster in the region, the fact that "the hand of compassion of the state" which reached out to our citizens during the previous disasters and the 1999 earthquake has not been extended so far has moved the people of the region to loneliness and deeply saddens them. According to Simav Emergency Management Centre's report, 29.05.2011, 1.074 of the total 15,930 dwellings in Simav district, including the stables and the workplace, have been found to have been destroyed, or destroyed, all 54% of the 44 mosques in the district have been damaged, including 1.674 with moderate damage, 5.761 with minimal damage. Almost all public buildings in the district are either heavily or moderately damaged in this earthquake, and the fate of the 150-bed Simav State Hospital, which is alleged to have been destroyed by the Ministry of Health, is not yet known. The psychological damage caused by the earthquake and countless months of aftershocks will only occur in time. According to the latest data by Kütahya İl Afet and Emergency Directorate, a total of 15,931 homes, jobs or stables were damaged in the district of Simav, 737 in the district of Şaphane, 520 in the district of Markets, 751 in the province of Hezarcık. 3.179 (about 20% of these are heavily damaged, 384 are medium damaged, 12.368 are less damaged. According to these data, a total of 1,248 dwellings by TOKI, which began construction in Muradinlar neighborhood, four or five miles from Simav's headquarters, and were originally determined to sell to our heavily damaged citizens, will be very inadequate to meet the need. However, rather than going to TOKI dwellings, a large part of our citizens, which were decided to be destroyed or destroyed because their dwellings were badly damaged, want to build housing instead of their own buildings, and to be recognised for the price and the value of the government's advantage of buying TOKI dwellings. It is noted that the low-indulgence assistance for low-infected dwellings and the $12,000 loan for medium-damaged dwellings are very inadequate. The earthquake was determined by the President of the Prime Minister's Disaster and Emergency Management to consider their buildings "Influenced on General Life" to be considered catastrophic, but not necessarily carried out. The income tax payments are due until 1 November 2011, and the farmer's loans to the Agriculture Bank are delayed by a year, but he hasn't explained what will happen next until now. After the earthquake, the city's infrastructure, especially in the center of Simav, has collapsed, and it has been very difficult to deliver services to our city's citizens. The government has requested $30m of financial assistance from Simav Municipality in order to renew infrastructure. Like the county's infrastructure and buildings, its economy has collapsed, life conditions have become heavy, many of our people have lost their jobs, and thousands of our citizens have thus far left the county and migrated elsewhere. There have been objections to many of the damage detection commission reports, a significant portion of the objections have been brought to justice, and when many buildings that have previously been identified as light or medium damage have been turned into heavy damage, the building owners are unable to know what to do. The outcome of hotels that will be destroyed in the Eynal Springs, the county's most important source of income, is uncertain. Since a significant portion of the schools in the district have been destroyed, education has been switched to a binary system and quality has fallen. The provision for overtime and special service compensation, which must be paid according to regulations regarding public personnel working in the earthquake area, has not been carried out. For reasons specified above, it would be helpful to open a Parliamentary Research on this matter. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For the purpose of the creation of a structure that is primarily human and human in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region, the reasons for the economic and social problems, the measures to be taken against these problems, solution proposals and necessary policies, the Constitution is 98. And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. We respectfully offer and offer the opening of Parliamentary Research according to its provisions. [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 4) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] 15) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 18) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] In Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, where 156% of our population live, the problem of inability to develop 21 counties is perceived as a destiny by those living in the region. There's a need for a model where a local person can see himself as an equal citizen. The real problem with Southeast and East Asia Minor is to increase the well-being of the human region. Human beings need to be healthy, educated, employed and productive, a human and labor structure with a high level of education that can improve their prosperity by producing their basic needs so that they can see comfortably. Because of cultural problems, the people of this region need to know that they treat them equally. So far, many work and projects have been done for the development of the East and Southeast Anatolian region, some of which have been successful. However, there is a need for a new structure. TECHNIC data emphasises the distribution of national income to regions, producing information, regional inequality, unemployment, health and education problems. The city's poverty is at the forefront. The 2002-2006 incentive investments were given 20% to the western provinces, while 9% to the Eastern and Southeast Anatolia region. Turkey receives a far lower share in the local administration spending of the region, which shares much lower than its population averages per population spending. In some cities that are approaching 60%, Turkey's average is rapidly growing city problems, but infrastructure investments towards solving problems and the central shares of local administrations remain low. The post-Republicary macroscale economy and regional policies have already shown that the region's economy, which is already behind the other regions in terms of socio-economic development and is struggling with structural problems, is further regressed as a result of its expansion and export-based growth strategy. In 2007, the eastern provinces were 250 per person. - When TL gets the Local Administration Expenses, the Western provinces are 1000. - He spent it on TL. The region's main source of income has been the decline in agriculture and animalism, which has accelerated migration in the city, and its urbanisation rate has dropped rapidly. Between 2002 and 2008, the number of cattle and small animals remained almost constant. The maximum amount of land available for economic irrigation has yet to be met with water in Erzurum, Ağrı, Kars, Malatya and Mush. Land reform has not been reformed and land collection investments have not been implemented. Production costs must be reduced in the region. It's normal for it to look like there's no migration due to high fertility in the southeast. Children's deaths are also high, and education in the region should also be cared for, enough universities should be opened, girls and women should be cared for, and pre-school education must be weighed down. Even in the application of BELDES-KİDES, the region has been earmarked under the average of Turkey per population. Despite the fact that the situation has reached such a serious extent, there is still no serious step towards resolving the problems in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. The resources of the region must be used correctly. To date, the facilities of the region have not been properly used. In this region, where the first wheat and sheep were tamed ages ago, even the production of sheep and wheat today is not enough. It is due to policy errors to not act on obstacles and act on the development of the region. It is possible to reveal the existing structure and build a new structure on it. For the purpose of the creation of a structure that is primarily human and human in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region, the reasons for the economic and social problems, the measures to be taken against these problems, solution proposals and necessary policies, the Constitution is 98. And 104th of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, three of our friends are in the system. Mr. Demirel, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0008par0234	Mr. President, thank you. I wanted a promise to draw attention to two things. First: Today is the anniversary of our great success in the Battle of Salvation, when Maras took the title of hero. I'm celebrating all the Kahramans. But most importantly, for us women, many years ago, on February 7th, 1924, a group of women took a journey in order for Turkish women to be more active in politics, equal representation in social life, and they formed the Turkish Women's Union. I thank and thank these precious ladies who have made it easier for us to walk in these ways by forming the Turkish Women's Union. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0009par0237	Thank you. Mr. Topstone has entered the system.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0010par0239	Mr. President, I have a question about that question.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0009par0240	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0010par0242	Iraq, Turkey's largest export market, is unable to export directly due to the danger of Ukrainian bird flu. The trucks sent by Ukraine to export were confiscated at Zonguldak. However, we have now learned that they are about to send the Ukrainian egg, which they wrote on the Iraqi border, and we have learned that the truck is waiting there. If these eggs become Turkish property and bird flu cases occur, it is clear that Turkey will no longer export eggs to Iraq or anywhere else. I'm asking you this especially because it's one of the major provinces of the opium egg market: has our Ministry taken any precautions on this? Whatever precautions are taken, I'm waiting for an explanation.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0009par0243	Thank you. He's on the books, Mr. Secretary, I'm sure he'll be interested. Mr. Janibulari has entered the system.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0011par0247	Thank you, Mr. President. In Turkey, the public's agenda and the agenda of politics are growing, and the scissors between the needs of the nation and the needs of the government are growing. The citizen struggles with basic problems such as poverty, deprivation, raises, unemployment, lack of production, lack of payment, hunger and injustice. The citizens are busy knocking on doors to look for the future for their child, and on the agenda of the ruling owners, they are bringing up such absurd matters as "Let our oath be removed," "Happy Turk," "Let Hitabe be debated," "May 19th," "May." Hitabe for youth is the will of Ataturk (Ataturk) for Turkish youth. To youth, Hitabe is the North Star they use to set their course as new generations walk along the path of independence and freedom. To youth, Hitaba points to the land of youth, the flag of youth, and the direction of the direction of the qiblah. I once again urge irresponsible officials to stop fighting with the values of the nation and the Republic, and return to the public's agenda, on behalf of the nation, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0012par0250	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Now, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and I'm going to put it to your votes: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting Tuesday (7/2/2012). The lack of verbal questions in the General Assembly's Union of 7.2,2012, the fact that the agenda's Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs Sections from Commissions and the 150-counted law proposals were to be taken to the 2nd place of the agenda during the 112th period, and that on Tuesday the General Assembly's 150-point law proposals continue to be completed. It's recommended. Congressmans, I will now make a promise to those who seek a word in favor and against you. Mr. Slim has requested a word in favor here, our Yalova MP, here you are, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0013par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Look at today's arguments: We will change the Civil Charter; we will change it; it is not a Hitabe to youth; we will change it; where did our oath come from, and it is a primitive, fascist thing? I don't understand why there's such an argument. We will silence the television, there will be no broadcasts on the TRT3. You forget that the Republican People's Party voter has money in that TRT share of electricity bills. They want to watch us. How dare you forbid it? Another thing is, I'm celebrating Republican People's Party MPs. So you've frightened them, so they want to hide the literature from the nation, so you've done your duty, so they want to stop the work of the opposition, so they don't want to show it. My eyes, of course, are looking for Mr. Arinc, the opposition MP from 2001. This is what our friends here told us about Arinc. Unfortunately, Mr. Arinc seems to have forgotten these conversations today. Today, Mr. Prime Minister is giving instructions again, saying, "Get out of the Civil Code, work, shut up the opposition." Look, I'll tell you what you want to make the House look like: Mr. Muharrem İnce, Mr. Group Vice President, Dear Friend; First of all, I'd like to thank you very much for your recent attention. I'm celebrating your New Year's with the excitement and longing of the days when we'll be looking for a solution to the country's problems under the House's roof, and at the very edge of the busy agenda, I can discuss them. May we meet in freedom... No. 1. lu Prison/Silivri Now, Mustafa Balbay, I read our friend's letter from this stand and read it in his name. You want to turn Parliament into Silivri, and you want to make it a prison. What is it? Congress wasn't efficient. Are we responsible for this? It is you who have not been able to make a decision, and you who have not been able to count. If you can't keep 184 MPs in this room, is it the opposition? In the 23rd term, 137 meetings were not enough, 412 decisions were not enough. Look, I'm warning you, I'm warning you in advance... the experienced MPs know that the most votes in this House are in November, December, when the budget is being discussed, and the budget of universities is being voted on in the national education budget. Those universities' budgets are voted one by one. I looked at the 2012 budget, so I looked at the 2011 vote, and there were 1,258 votes in one day. If you're trying to make this Civil Code narrow, lower the voice of the opposition here, I warn you, we'll stand as 20 Republican People's Party MPs in this 1.258 vote, you can't do this vote for months, don't make us do it. Someone else, if you impose on us, we'll find new ways. It takes both of them a day to cut back on freedom for safety. If you want to turn down the opposition's voice, we'll find new breaches, but don't call us again on Mondays. I'm calling the group's deputy presidents, so call us again and let's make a deal, guys. Don't say that. International agreements... look, in international agreements, the opposition doesn't usually talk, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, and I haven't seen the answer to international agreements in almost ten years. Many ministers, Mr. President -- Mr. Elitaş knows very well -- this international agreement has to pass. What do you mean, it's the work of the nation, it's the work of the state. We said, we've put aside opposition, we've passed those international agreements within minutes. You'll destroy all of this, the ways of reconciliation, don't do that. We're not talking here, and we don't want a vote. There are obstacles in all the world's parliaments, you'll endure it, you'll digest it. Even during the talks of the Salvation War, there was a blockage in this Parliament. It's always happened, it wasn't a rose, it wasn't a rose, it wasn't a rose, even in the midst of the war. You were against the basic law. Mr. Arinc is here, Mr. Arinc, and we'll see that you're against the basic law, but today you're trying to change Parliamentary Institution by fundamental law. In the 21st century, there were only seven basic laws, but in the 22nd term, you did it 29 times, 23rd term 40 times. The MPs who don't know what they're voting for, they're gonna rush in, they're gonna shut us down! You're playing the tyrant, not the oppressed, and I'm telling you, if the worker talks, the bat, the student talks, the pepper gas, the farmer talks, the scolding, the journalist talks, the prison, the taxman talks, the congressman talks, the Civil Charter. I'm asking you to give it up. Don't try to build a rose garden without thorns in this coven. We say that the land of hope and freedom is everyone's Turkey. Again, we tell you, don't bother with our common values. Don't bother with our oath. Every morning in the United States, students declare their allegiance to the flag of the United States, explaining that the republic will live under God forever. No Englishman would think of dealing with the English Worker's March, but you want to change everything, settle everything. So I've written you a speech, I've read the new address: "O Muslim Turk, Kurd, Çerkek, Laz, Pomak, Abaza and Zaza youth! Your first duty is to preserve and defend your religion, your diet, your ethnic identity until the end of time. This is the sole foundation of my existence and my future. This is my treasure as precious as my basic bank accounts. Even in the future, there will be hypocrites, including those who would want to deprive me of this treasure.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0014par0288	What's he talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0015par0289	He's addressing his own group!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0013par0290	If one day you have to defend me and my power, you have the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the State, the HSYK, the Special Courts, the entire army of protection. Therefore, why should I be called? You will not be ungrateful, but you will be put into office, thinking of all the good that I have done you in the past. The enemies who are going to refer to me may be the trustees of an unprecedented victory in the world. They can come up with plans to get us off the couch outside of the country, with more hands than all this cherait. Even my strategic partner can be reckless, devious, and even treacherous. In fact, some of our old litigators may even offer their personal interests in order to protect their seats with the political intentions of the muslims. I, nacar, may be devastated and exhausted. O Turkish Muslim, Kurd, Laz, Çerkek, Pomak, Abaza, Zaza youth! That is your duty, even in this world, to save me. The power you need is in the tenders, the perks I've given you in time. This is the new address. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0016par0293	Thank you, Mr. Slim. The second speaker is again in favour of İzmir MP Oktay Vural. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0017par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, today, as a result of a meeting with the co-operation of all four political parties, we have agreed to continue our work until the completion of the talks of Law Proposal 150. Actually, the reason I'm taking the stand is really... it's 2:00 p.m. today. We had a meeting about the Civil Charter at 00. Before this Civil Charter meeting, all political parties called for a meeting with the Council of Counsellors to set the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, despite the call of the four political parties for a meeting, despite the discussion of a matter related to the Interior Charter, the earthquake in 150 rows, particularly the earthquake in Van Nah, here in the country where there are some political risks, the adoption of a law in the countries involved in which there are certain risks, when it is brought to the agenda, we have withdrawn our motion to call on the Council as all political parties, and thus, together and together, to discuss an agenda that we have reached today. With such a compromise, together and together, if we can do the control and legislation that Turkey needs, we feel it is not right to engage in some senseless conflict about it. So our call is clear and clear. Come together, together, by the will of our nation that has brought us here, let not our rights of our own choice be restricted, but together, let us establish this agenda, let everyone observe their rights, their rights, their rights, their rights, and their law. Look, what a great example he's made today, and I think it's very important. This is what Mr. Bulent Arinc once called the constitutional amendment in our day, the highest of all provisions. Unfortunately, today, the greatest of the governments. Unfortunately, if they are not contributing to this supreme judgment, someone has to look after them. In that sense, today, indeed, there are some rights that the groups related to the Civil Code have. Instead of interfering with other people's rights, their rights, let's talk about it together, together, by upholding the law, but by managing it together, and by agreeing from time to time, as we do today, let's set the agenda, let's talk about it. Thus, our nation has demands from all of us, from the opposition, from power, but we all have to exercise our rights together in the Civil Code. Instead of changing the games in the Civil Code, I think it's better to present our rights and laws here by making changes that we agreed on together. In that respect, today's (*) In this chapter, non-Turkish words were expressed by the Minister. Although there were four parties, there were four parties, maybe three hours, maybe not even on the agenda, and one hour of verbal questions, we couldn't discuss anything, but today we had a chance to discuss something like this. I really hope that we can all make an internal charter change that we can all agree on together, that everyone respects our rights, our law, and so that the government will say opposition, and that the government will create an environment where they will do what they want to do. In this regard, I wanted to share these developments with you. So the opposition's stance is never always negative in terms of compromise. We bring it in, we sign it, we even have a proposal for the removal of verbal questions -- when the minister is ready to answer the questions the opposition parties are asking -- with the advisory board today, it's important, everyone's waiting, come on, let's do it. In fact, I hope, in this regard, that the compromise that we've come up with is also important, and hopefully in the Civil Charter, that a coercion that will allow groups to go back to the Turkish Parliament, the Turkish Parliament. I just wanted to share our talks and agreement with valued lawmakers on this matter, both in the Civil Code and in the Council of Counsellors. In this framework, we, the National Movement Party, today discussed law 150 rows, and signed our agreement that the work be done until these talks are completed. Under this signature, I hope that these negotiations will be completed today, and I would like to extend my regards to all of you, saying that we will be in favor of this motion.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0018par0305	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0019par0307	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the healthy, quality, qualified work of the Parliamentary General Assembly, as the voice of power and opposition, group law is a very important and indispensable element of democracy. If, within the House... Mr. President, if you'd like, I'll continue after the discussion is over. End of discussion between the Deputy President of 2 Groups, and I'll keep it that way.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0020par0309	Wait a minute, wait a minute!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0021par0310	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0019par0311	And by the way, we're running out of time. Now, our 5th year is in Parliament. Here, we showed the example of constructive opposition in the law process when there was always a legal process for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the nation. For example, the Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts, the Law of Law. At that time, let's draw up these fundamental laws at a meeting of Mr. Hamzacebi, MP of the Group from CHP and the MP of the group from MPHP, although I was not a member of the group. If you're in power, let's run the House. We said we'd run it. And then the Parliament Speaker called the groups, and we put together the commissions, and we passed the laws that wouldn't be out in ten days here. In the process, as we entered 2012, we told the ruling party that you are preparing a unilateral Civil Charter, bringing it to Parliament. You're trying to keep the opposition quiet when you bring it in. Ten minutes, ten minutes, and you're down to five minutes. You're interfering with the legal debate. You're interfering with the number of motions. You want to drown a twenty-signed motion in five minutes, such as the 19th Amendment called group law, which is a group law -- twenty signatures under a motion. You have no right. But the ruling party insisted on the 19th article. But if you're doing the math, let's set the working hours, 1400-20. 1300-21 instead of 00. Let's make it 00. If you want to make time as a ruling party, there are 80 international contracts to make the law, three or five of which are negotiable -- there's a contract to discuss -- let's subtract 75. You're trying to grab our arm as we reach out to you, and as you step into it with good intentions, you're coming at us. We cannot tell you that there will be no opposition democracy in this Parliament. Now, that's what we're going through with this whole Civil Code thing. Bringing this Civil Charter alone is the source of the tension, the source of the tension. You didn't see him for two days, we made a compromise tomorrow, we discussed it all, we sat down today, we agreed today... you didn't. What do you want to do? You cut down the Parliament TV, cut off the live broadcasts, and made the TRT to be your trumpet. Look, I've made a question proposal, and the answer to my question motion here -- Mr. Arinc -- is not about the democracy of Turkey, but about making fun of the will of the nation; three lines! When I asked, how many programs have you done about BDP, how many other parties have you done since you've been selected? How many programs did the ruling party participate in? How many of our stories have you done? We asked all of them, and two lines came to me with an answer, and he says: "We are representatives of this nation. If that's how a bureaucrat answers the written question of a group of vice presidents, which I know as much as my religion, my faith, that Mr. Arinc didn't. It is not the language of Arinc. It is not the language of Mr. Arinc. We'll discipline those bureaucrats! Look, those bureaucrats will have manners! Those bureaucrats won't be able to send answers to elected lawmakers at the will of the nation, like they're mocking the House. Look, we're telling you straight. We're going to talk about this now, and you're trying to cut it down. You're negotiating group law. The will of the people, the voice of this bench. No horse deals, friends, no horse deals, talk for five minutes, talk for ten minutes, talk for seven minutes... fear God. All media monopoly is at your disposal. The editors are under threat, not doing our news. None of the TVs are calling us to the show out of fear. You've put so much pressure on him. You've passed the General Staff's accordion, and even in the General Staff, mercy was greater than yours. Don't, don't, we're going to come down here and keep your voice down. Bring it in, pass it through. Write it down, write it down: The Peace and Democracy Party Group will use it anywhere, anywhere, in the contract, in the procedure debate, in the law, in the motions, in the executive clause from the date of execution. When you turn it down in one place, we use our voice elsewhere. We've mastered as well as you. I guess you don't have to wait ten years to be a master, Mr. Elitaş, ten years. Not in ten years, we mastered it in two years. We've learned about your games, your deceits, your attempts to lower your voices, your view of the opposition, your sense of silence, your sense of intimidation. You know what we found out? You turn down the parliament, you turn down the TV, you turn down the voices of the opposition, you turn down the groups, you turn down the press outside, you turn down the lawyers, you turn down the politicians. You've turned it into an empire of fear, an empire of fear. You want to cover up a green Fascism cover 800,000 square meters above Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0022par0317	I wish it was green, yellow.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0019par0318	Yellow?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0022par0319	Yeah, yellow. If only it were green, there's justice in green.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0023par0320	He thinks he's green.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0019par0321	Now I'll leave this discussion to you. I'll tell you this: we came with the people's votes, we came with their will. The right to sovereignty is not to be passed on, my friends. Look, if it's not a unconditional nation, let's write it down if it's the AKP's, then call it AKP's sovereignty unconditionally. You're going to violate the non-transferable Constitution clause, you're going to hand it over with this law, you're not going to compromise, you're not going to talk, and then you're going to make fun of us when we get together. This is not a culture of compromise. Democracy is a dialogue, it's an participation, it's a partnership, it's a pluralism, it's a division of ideas, it's an idea. That's why we didn't negotiate these Civil Code debates with the ruling party. I'm telling you very clearly, look, the right to the bench, the right to the people's will, the right to the group can't be negotiated a horse. We'll hold hands with you for five minutes, ten minutes, 15 minutes. We consider it a bargain, not ethical, not moral, political failure. We've told you that. We've mastered it in three years, we've learned it as well as you guys, come on. It doesn't bother you, it doesn't bother you, that you come in this way, with this dictator, with this obligatory understanding. If you shorten our ten minutes, if we don't get back to you in a hundred and twenty minutes, we'll get back to you in a hundred and twenty minutes. Write it down by the end of the day, whether you want to write it down, whether it's Saturday or Sunday, whether it's February 30th or February 30th, or February 28th -- you can extend it -- and you can earn two more days.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0024par0325	We're putting it on February 29th.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0019par0326	Look, you made February 30th with a motion, I remind you, you can do it again, but you can't keep our voices down. Don't do this! There's no need to fight when you can compromise. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0025par0328	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, MP of Kayseri, is the last speaker of the Council's proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0026par0330	In favor or against, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0025par0331	Against you...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0332	I'll speak against you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0025par0333	Against the motion.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0334	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you. In favor of a motion or against it, the bill and proposal are discussed. We now have a motion from our Council of Counsellors, and I have made a pledge against this motion, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0028par0336	You interfere when we make a commitment to the Council of Counsellor's decision. Why are you guys talking?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0337	Dear group vice president of the Council meeting, our friends are at 1400 hours. They started at 00. When we had a meeting last Friday at 9:30 p.m. on the basis of our Parliamentary President's initiatives, our political party group presidents' phone or otherwise face-to-face talks with our president regarding the change of the Civil Code were scheduled to call us to a meeting on Friday. Then, on Friday at 13.30, we sat down again at a meeting headed by our Parliament Speaker. In other times, when the opposition parties reproached us in various ways, our main job is to control what they say, Mr. Sculkall often brings this issue to the agenda, which I believe is right, let's make it a more effective study of making the Grand National Assembly of Turkey a law. Today, at the meeting we held at the chairman's office again, we had a preliminary discussion on Monday or Tuesday about the meeting of the group's vice presidents. As a matter of fact, Mr. Tütün said not to speak, do not call us on the phone anymore. But we'll keep calling. Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Vural, we spoke with Mr. Hamzacebi. Since it is our friend's alibi for yesterday, it is either 9:00 a.m. or 2:00 a.m. today. We said we'd meet at 00. Under the agreement of all political party leaders, our co-chair friends are at 14 p.m. They gathered at 00. They said: "We will delay the problems of Law Proposal 6111, our citizens who were damaged in the earthquake, and we will see a bill in commissions, which we think will delay if our citizens, such as Libya, have problems for political reasons abroad, have problems in the business world of Egypt, work in countries like Tunisia, have problems with taxes, have problems with government revenues," they said. As per the request of our friend, the vice president of the group, the council was signed and educated here. Before it was read, Mr. President Eroglu stated that Mr. Eroglu will answer the oral questions, while the group was missing from the Council of Counsellors on notice of the group's deputy presidents, and I initialed that. After him, Mr. Oktay Vural, deputy leader of the National Movement Party, said: "Why do we have to read these? We're wasting time. Let's take the international contracts in the 2nd, 3rd, 4th place to the front of the section on the amendment of the Civil Code in the 1st row. It's not legally possible right now, but we've made a principle decision. In accordance with our principle decision, we can also prevent the amendment to the Civil Code by the AK PARTI deputy chairman of group 156. We said, "Let's sign if it's appropriate." But we couldn't because the law is not appropriate. In fact, Mr. Vural, with his pen, has reduced the part of the agenda to two, and we have initialized it together. Why? That's what we did because it's the product of compromise. In fact, since the 19th article of the Civil Code has become clear and clear, we said in our Civil Code amendment that if you read the 19th article in order to run the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Council of Counsellors will be advised to make recommendations. Under those recommended decisions, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is cast into the game. If there is no agreement on the Council of Counsellors, political parties will ask the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a group for the issues they propose on the Council of Counsellors. Then what's going on? According to Article 63, the discussion of procedure is under way. The legal debate is a matter that operates according to Article 63. However, the Council of Counsellors shall be voted on Article 19 after the Council has already taken a recommendation, without speaking, in favor and against. As a matter of fact, at our Speaker's meeting in November, in accordance with the principle decisions that we've taken, we're not signing, we've done this by the principle of the Council of Ministers' proposals, but today I'm really surprised...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0028par0338	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0339	So our friend's speech at the Council of Counsellor's proposal may not have known, but I told our group's deputy, the group's deputy, the group's signature here, the group's deputy, whatever you've decided, right? Let's add this to your decision. I signed it. Let's make five two. I signed. Why? I signed for you because I trusted you. I signed for you to talk like that. Now, look, dear friends, why are we bringing in the Civil Code change? Now, some of our fellow lawmakers are up here, talking that whatever you do, there's a thousand yes-nos in the budget, and if you do, I'll keep 20 of my friends here, and I'll do it in the morning, and I won't raise the budget. If you don't do it, you'll have 20 of your friends changing shifts. Well, we do the budget talks for 30 days and 40 days, not 15 days. There is already a deadline in the Constitution, which will come to the Plan and Budget Commission seventy-five days ago during the duration of the Constitution, and within fifty-five days, the Plan and Budget Commission has made it clear that the Constitution will do these things. We sit here until morning, our fellow lawmakers say yes or no to the decisions read. So, we did this job to make sure that certain things in this Civil Code weren't used as a threat, and we did it because it wasn't used as a blackmail element.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0029par0341	You're using it to silence it, and you won't use it as a threat? You're using the Civil Code to silence it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0342	Look, precious MPs, I'll come here and make you wait until morning prayer. It doesn't mean to activate the work of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0029par0343	I'll shut you up. What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0344	The method of active work by lawmakers in the Turkish Grand National Assembly is one, audit; two, legislature. What do we say in our Civil Code amendment? Let's check on Tuesday. Let's talk about research proposals on Tuesday, whether we accept them or not, talk about group proposals, but let's do this. Look, dear lawmakers, in ten years, over nine and a half years, in the time we served as MPs, we did not play games with any political party group, we did not pursue any dark games. We also did not think about how to defeat other political parties. We had only one goal: we had a goal to make the Great National Assembly of Turkey function in a healthy manner. As a matter of fact, our fellow vice presidents speak here, and the authority must be patient. We, in power, have tried to show the patience that we can. We weren't impatient because the opposition might react, but we tried to make an effort to be democratically mature. There's been problems, there's been controversy, but we're in the back room with the members of the group, meeting with the Speaker of Parliament, and we're supposed to do these things properly, as our group vice president. I mean, it's 14 o'clock for the group presidents. In the context of a well-intentioned meeting he had made at 00, I think we should also listen to the voice of the opposition in the amendments to the Interior Charter, to meet again tomorrow. Without insisting on the matter of the Interior Charter, our fellow MPs, the members of the group, as well as the members of the group, agreed that we should not discuss three contracts. They agreed that they should say, and that our Law Proposal 6111 would be placed in the second place. We said, "Yes, it will set an example for tomorrow." But the conversation here is not about agendas, it's not about the Civil Code. Now, look, dear friends, Mr. Tünce has read a speech from here. If you've changed the address of Ataturk, I feel sorry for the Great Leader.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0030par0350	I wrote it down for you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0351	The address of Ataturk...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0030par0352	You're the one who wants to change it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0353	... No one has the right to change it, it's not the right to be able to change it. [Bravobooks, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause, applause.] But mocking the address of Ataturk, Mr. Tünce, I think it suits you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0030par0354	Very good, very good!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0027par0355	The address of Ataturk is a saying, but these days there is a General Assembly debate within the Republican People's Party. I suppose if you're in power, if you're president, it sounds like you're addressing your followers. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0031par0358	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0032par0359	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0031par0360	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0032par0361	I suppose you've heard the taunt in the last words of Mr. Elitas. I suppose you'll give me the right to explain.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0031par0362	Could it be from your position?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0032par0363	No, sir. No, sir. Why? In the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0031par0364	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0033par0365	Mr. President, I didn't pick on him, he didn't explain who he was calling, I told him, he addressed his youth.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0031par0366	Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0034par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Elitaş, I didn't say I'd keep you here with 20 congressmen. It's your job to stay here, that's number one.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0035par0371	It's your duty, too.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0034par0372	I'm already here.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0035par0373	Why did you say 20?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0034par0374	Look, this is the first one. Second, if you can't keep 184 of 326 AKP MPs here, that's your problem. If we have asked for 768 decisions in the 23rd term and there have not been 184 people here in the last year, we are not responsible. We're here, we're doing our duty, you're not, you're not working.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0035par0376	You're going to wander around, we're going to sit here.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0034par0377	You're already here, you're out on the phone, you're always on the job trail, come work here, you're on the Hill, you're on the job trail, that's number one. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Second of all, the board of my party is none of your business, it's an internal business. We -- our president's discretion is to take it to the convention -- we do our duty as delegates of that convention.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0035par0380	You're trying to write a speech on my behalf.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0034par0381	But your pain in the tail, all the people in Kayseri have become ministers, Parliament has become vice president, and you haven't been able to take a step further than the group's vice president. Don't spread your tail pain to my party, don't patch it to me.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0035par0383	Muharrem, you're talking to yourself.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0034par0384	Mr. Elitaş, this is a trick, and don't forget that this opposition party's group's deputy leader is up there, and his deputy leader, Mr. President, O Prime Minister, this strange servant of yours. Now, look, we're in the 3rd term, and we're not going to be lawmakers again, so I'm going to sit in the opposite rows. He says, "Don't give this message to me, Mr. Elitaş." Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0036par0387	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0037par0388	Mr. President, the Congressman has made an accusation. So he expressed that I was critical of Mr. Encel because of my own actions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to bring this up in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0036par0389	Mr. Elitaş, please, in a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0037par0392	Mr. President, I speak for myself, and I hope to speak for our friends of the AK PARTY Group. I'm the head of people in this country who have their exquisite discipline and tasteful struggle. I speak for myself. [[CHP's rows ίOo!]] Friends, you're very surprised, you don't do this at all, you said a little bit, so on things that don't exist, you think it's hard. Its exquisite discipline is really hard, things that are never reached, things that don't go. Look, Mr. Slim, you said something about me, there's a message here, I don't want to read it. There's a message you sent me, and I'll show you this message when you get here.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0038par0397	Read it!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0037par0398	The two of us don't fit into my manners, my poetry...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0038par0399	I don't think it'll fit either!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0037par0400	...but I'd be honored to have a Kayseri MP from AK PARTY as minister.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0039par0401	It's a shame to even say it! You're going to read what you're saying!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0037par0402	It doesn't upset me, it honors me. It honors me.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0040par0403	I think he should read it!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0037par0404	Now I'll bring you this message, if you want to read it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0041par0407	You're gonna read it!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0042par0408	Mr. President, I don't know what's happening now, I really don't know, but I don't think there's any difference between reading and not reading a message there as a threat between the two of us, so you take that message, read it to yourself morning and evening!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0043par0409	Thank you. Congressmans, talks have been completed on the Council of Counsellors' proposal. The counseling board...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0044par0414	Mr. President, let's have a closed session. One of them says, "I can't read." One says, "Let's have a closed session..."
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0043par0415	Now, if you'll excuse me, let's take a vote. I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the recommendation of the Council of Counsel has been accepted. By the way, two of our friends are in the system. Mr. Öğüt, wait a minute, you said you had a question from Mr. Minister of Sports. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0045par0422	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the facilities of the Anatolian Citadel Youth Club, the most important and historical club of youth in the region, entrusted with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's homeland and republic to Youth, were destroyed one morning while their eight-year contracts remained. How do you feel about the behavior of the University of Marmara? Are you going to make any sanctions? Do you plan to assign a place for the only club in the area where thousands of young people exercise? Would you like to give hope to a young man who doesn't want to be a Tinerist, who wants to be a good moralist, who wants to be a healthy sport? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0046par0426	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Young, from your position, as far as I know, the snow in Tucson has blocked the roads, and that's what it's about. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0047par0430	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we have an extraordinary situation this year. In the east, southeast, I get hundreds of calls from all villages, especially in Tucson, that the village roads are closed every day. By the way, old people, their roads are blocked, they can't keep up with the doctor in the village. Please, this government... at the time, I told the Finance Minister: send some fuel money to our place this year. Many villages have run out of gas money. So instead of catching a plane for a trillion liras like this and traveling abroad, you need to do something about this nation's urgent needs first. Since I've been informed in the county of Tunceli, there's no real fuel money. So the vehicles don't work. All of the village roads, more or less, are closed, and so are the roads. There's a lot of people on the road. In the villages, patients...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0046par0433	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0048par0435	Mr. President, we had a request.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0046par0436	Mr. Sakik, when did you enter the system?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0049par0437	It's in the blink of an eye.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0046par0438	That's right, you're in the middle of something. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0050par0441	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Arinc is here. On a TV show, he said that Kurdish language is not a civilized language. We're very upset about this. We'd be very happy if he'd give us an explanation. I mean, what criteria do other languages have to be more sacred than Kurdish, more civilized? I'd appreciate it if he'd go public with this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0051par0444	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0052par0445	Mr. President, I'd like to address a social problem.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0051par0446	Now, don't come back like rain... Wait a minute, sir, I'm reading this now: Mr. Özkan, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Aslanoglu. Here you go, Mr. Özkan. One minute from your position.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0053par0451	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Youth and Sports, members of the Council of Ministers are here. In my districts, Burdur, Antalya, Bolu, Niğde have demands that potato manufacturers in our provinces are now full of potatoes, but they can't get it to meet consumers. These farmers, who actually produce a additive value, want these products to meet the market, to meet the markets. In this regard, the government expects support from our officials. I wanted to bring up this problem. Thank you for your sensitivity.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0054par0456	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0055par0459	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to know something about it from our Minister. Institutions have some information among the public institutions' staff to remove the horizontal transition. Does the government have a study on this? Has the Council of Ministers brought up the matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0056par0463	Thank you. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, please.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0057par0466	Mr. Youth and Sports Minister, if Mr. Elitaş is sincere about Ataturk's speech to Youth, I thank him. No one can take him down. He said. You're a minister of youth. What is your clear attitude regarding the testimony of Mr. Hussein Çelik? Are you going to take him down? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0058par0469	Thank you. Congressmans, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0471	Mr. President, there are questions that have been submitted to me, not if we don't answer them.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0060par0472	We left out the questions, sir, you know. There are no questions or answers in the Council decision.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0473	I'd like to answer these questions from my position or from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0061par0474	Your position, please.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0476	Very respected MPs, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. I certainly don't think it's right to run a polemic through the book of Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0062par0478	You said it yourself!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0063par0479	You're the one who brought it up!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0480	The common values of the Ataturk and the republic and the republic are our rare means of unity that holds the Turkish community together. Therefore, it is necessary not to make the unity of 74,700,000 brothers in our eighty-one province a means of discussion on the parliamentary platform or other policy platforms for political reasons.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0064par0481	Answer me, answer me!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0482	I believe, and I want to believe that the same values of BDP are common values, that the AK PARTY lives as common values. On the agenda of the Republic of Turkey's government, there is no will, no intention, no preparation to discuss Ataturk's Hitabesi of Youth. That's the truth you all know. (Turkish Youth!) Your first duty is to defend and preserve Turkish sovereignty and its republic forever. There is nothing in this sentence that any of us would be uncomfortable with.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0065par0484	You don't know?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0485	But my plea to you is that no one should attempt to exploit such opportunities in order to create tephrica.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0066par0486	Answer the question, answer the question!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0487	Our march of glory, the Hitabe of Youth, and other values, all of these are common values of society. I find it absolutely unnecessary for me to do polymics through these common values, which I find meaningless.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0067par0488	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0489	I don't think we should make such values a subject of daily policy abuse.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0068par0490	Answer the question, answer the question!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0491	I already answered your question.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0068par0492	Answer the question!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0493	You didn't listen to the question, you didn't listen to the answer, so you didn't notice that I answered the question. The question was obvious, and I answered it. In this regard, there is no such thing as a will, a will, a will, a declaration of will, of our government, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. These are the general acceptances of society. At a time when we need to increase the general acceptances in numbers, to discuss the public's common values, and to attempt to create a substance abuse of daily politics through them, the valued lawmakers would harm all of us.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0069par0495	You're telling me.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0059par0496	Of course, there will be some differences between parties. Of course, in the direction of these differences, each party's spokesman will defend his own thesis in different sentences, but please don't make it a subject of mutual abuse. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0070par0499	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Commander, one moment, please.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0071par0502	Mr. President, valued members, the Minister has just revealed a very toxic language. When we were talking about our party, I believe, and even the BDP said, "Now, I want to say this again, to bring to the attention of the General Assembly what a dangerous expression this is, what a disparaging expression it is. Here, BDP is not a party to be referred to as either BDP or even BDP. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0070par0504	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0072par0505	Mr. President, I demand word to correct it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0070par0506	Here you are, Mr. Sword. One moment, please...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0073par0508	You promise them what you want, you didn't promise us a minute, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0070par0509	I gave it to you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0073par0510	Where did you give it to him? We're not going to...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0070par0511	You didn't want any more.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0074par0513	Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Commander for the opportunity to make amends. I said "AK PARTY," CHP, MHP, and even BDP, that's right. I'm sorry I even called you BDP. Of course, you've confirmed that all the MPs of the four political parties with their groups on these values are one body, one heart. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0075par0516	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0076par0517	We're not one heart. We don't believe in Kamalism, we want to discuss it. Nothing is a sign, not an incident.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0075par0518	Congressmans, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and processed and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Article 37 of my Proposal for Forestation and Anti-Erosion Foundation 2/18 is not subject to the Commission in 45 days, I demand and demand that it be taken directly into consideration. Yours truly. 02.12.2012 Dr. Reşat Right Now, as the bidder, Mr. Reşat MP, Mr. Reşat is correct. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0077par0531	Mr. President, lawmakers, I'm bringing you an offer of law in such a foul and contentious environment, I hope you'll accept my offer of the law. I have made a commitment that my proposal for the establishment of an anti-forestation and erosion institution will be brought directly to the agenda under Article 37 of the Civil Code. I salute your high council. The approach to maintaining environmental and ecological balance in the face of serious environmental problems that threaten our living areas is increasingly important. Today, 85 percent of our land and 54 percent of our forests are in danger of erosion. Problems such as climate change, pollution of water resources and desertification of soil, show the urgency of implementing this approach. As an important dimension of our natural habitats, our forests and our land suffer significant damage as well as the effects of industrialization, as well as water, wind, and other natural factors. While unplanned industrialization is the main factor in the emergence of these losses, the other and perhaps most important reason is the destruction of forests, a true natural warrior. For different purposes, for example, to create new tourist areas, forest areas are damaged and narrowed down for reasons such as the allocation of seats to private universities. The need to take certain measures to stop these increasing losses is a key task to the institutions of the state and to all parts of the community. It is at the very beginning of these tasks where our forest resources, known from seven to 70, can be protected from these harmful effects and can first be expanded by creating new forest areas, which are important in the cultures of nations and cannot be claimed otherwise positive contributions to the conservation of ecological balance. One of the most important problems of the next century will be global warming. Depending on global warming, there will also be hurricanes, floods and floods, long-term droughts and desertifications in some areas. Winter temperatures will rise, spring will come early, autumn will be late, and climates will be broken. This will affect human life in an advanced way, and it will destroy vegetation. The most important, most efficient situation in global warming is the rise in carbon dioxide, methane and chloroflorocarbon gas called greenhouse gases. And this right here is particularly the release of carbon dioxide gas. And here's the most important thing that can prevent it, is to increase the number of trees and forests. If we want to protect ourselves from global warming, we have to support and care very much about deforestation. When we consider what has been done in our country in terms of protection of forests and the creation of new forest areas, we once again recognize the importance of what has been done in our country, but we see that new forest areas can be created and the existing forest areas can be improved and that we must achieve greater goals against erosion together. We need to create new resources in this area, most importantly, in order to create new organizations in sustainable forest management and its principles in the fight against wooding and erosion. As obstacles to reaching these goals, the forest cadastro is primarily still incomplete, as well as the ability to create the resources predicted in the budget or the fund created. So when there are enough resources available today, the forest area that can be created in areas that are ready to plant only state-owned areas is 3.2 million hectares. The ability to implement this project requires a new national consciousness and action. It is also important for the social development of the forest villagers, as well as for the mobilisation and the struggle against erosion, which will be launched with the resources predicted to be created. As the raw materials that industry needs, forest resources have a vital function to provide, prevent environmental pollution, keep our soil resources efficient, regulate the water regime and prevent natural disasters, and develop employment for the forest villagers. With our proposal for the law, we aim to win a new plantation and forest fields in our country. He says it will create new resources, and it will contribute to our country's development, and the law expects our Parliament to value and contribute to my proposal, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0078par0540	Thank you, Mr. Right. Adana MP Seyfettin Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0079par0544	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the nationalist Movement Party's proposal for the establishment of the anti-forestation and anti-erosion institution. I salute you all. Yes, this bill is very important. Today, nearly 87 per cent of our country's territory has erosion, which is violent and medium. As we look at it, 59% of the agricultural areas have severe erosion in 54 percent of the forest areas, 64 percent of the mera fields. Now we have to have a total war on the fight against this erosion. Turkey's forestry has tried to fight its projects for years with the right to fight its erosion. What's missing here is that the erosion, as we all know, is not only in forest areas, but also in agricultural areas and in private administration's responsibilities. Today, when we look at Mr. Minister's policies on forestry, unfortunately, he's acting on a policy that's all about puzzles. Our respect for the Minister himself is infinite, our respect for his teaching, but what we ask him is that he's trying to develop a forestry policy without ideas from the foresters who write history; he's trying to build a forestry policy regardless of civil society organizations, people who work in forestry. You all know, in his presentation here, he boasts the history-making services of Turkish forestmen. So, as you brag about it, why do you sign up for the work that has left the forest organization alone, by ignoring the good work that has been done in the past with a sense of inheritance? Look, he's issued five or six decrees in six months here. He broke what he did yesterday the next day. In less than a month or two, he brought decrees in the new rule of law and played with the structure of an organization. Now we're always defending erosion units. I'm a member of this agency. The Forest General Directorate is the main dynamo of forestry and has signed important services. As I connect all units to the headquarters of the Forest, I will form a ministry, and I will form three main units of decisions that he has made day-to-day. He founded the Department of Desertization and Erosion Control. While establishing this Office of Desertization and Erosion Control, he linked the main erosion units to the General Directorate of the Forest. Today the General Manager's office for desertification has been planned and organized only to function as a branch manager. When you play with the structure of an organization, you bring problems with you. Look, in the same government period -- we have a good associate of the forest engineer -- here are two or three -- nine departments of the Ministry have been removed. For what? So we don't create duality. But we're looking at the same minister today, whatever logic he's been acting on, he's had 16 regional directorates, and these Ministry departments are completely empty, they have no function at all. It's all wrong if you're building someone to be in charge. If 50 percent of our forests today are inefficient and 27 percent of our country is covered in forests, you have no right to play so much with the main backbone of an organization, with its main structure. Look, I'm telling you, your practices, Mr. Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, have yet to respond to the election of forest engineers made the other day. In an unhistoric way, you have run the election by naming the chief inspectors of the forest and appointing the vice principals of the forest to be co-ordinating, and you have suffered a loss as a result of the elections made all over Turkey. Mr. Secretary, this suggests that your policies are not accepted by the forestmen. We all know forest people for twenty-four hours, from employee to employee, from engineer to manager, from summer to fire on coal, and from winter to winter, they are a busy organization that does hard work on snow without even saying, "Ooh, of course." If you play with this agency like this, you'll be in the position of an heiress. What you're telling me today is the product of the work done in the past. So, please, don't play too hard with the structure of the Forestry Department, the Department of Forestry. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0080par0552	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0081par0553	Mr. President, it's a very short word for 60. Can you give me something to do with it?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0080par0554	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş, from your position.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0082par0555	Look, that's not how you get your new offer.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0081par0558	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Right, he's been working, we thank them, it's about the establishment of a wooding and anti-erosion organization, but since the agenda is different, we haven't been able to contact the Minister, so I've just contacted him. Right now, according to the Minister's statement, we've established the General Directorate for Anti-Artification and Erosion. When we look at it that way, maybe they'll consider this law proposal as a basis for the General Manager's work. I thank them, they've done a great job, but since the General Manager's office has been established, I'd like to express that we don't think it's appropriate for this proposal to be put on the agenda. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0083par0561	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0084par0562	He's giving false information. No deforestation and Erosion Control, Mr. President, desertification and erosion. He gave me false information, Mr. President, and I'd appreciate it if the group could correct the Vice President.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0083par0566	Members of parliament, talks on the motion, given according to Article 37 on the issue, have been completed. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal questions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals from the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of lawmakers, we will begin negotiations with Justice and Development Party Group Chairman Nurettin Canikli, MP of Justice and Development Party Giresun; Reconstruction of some Acquisitions of 6111; Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and other Laws and Laws Charter Amendments. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with 150 rows of numbers. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0085par0584	Mr. President, I give all of you my regards. My dear friends, I'm talking about the first amendment of this law, which we should all agree to, and a missing law. It's a law for foreign contractors and Turkish businessmen doing business abroad, which was organised in the configuration last year, but was not able to pay taxes from abroad due to their failure to pay taxes, to contractors and contractors registered abroad in Turkey. Article one... once that's missing, folks. My dear friends, if you'd like, I'd like to talk to you about some foreign contractors. Turkey is actually a very important lifeblood of Turkey. Foreign contractors are invisible to Turkey (x) 150 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Heroes, but for some reason, foreign contractors never cry, foreign contractors never wait at the gates, they do their job. It's about $20 billion in business volumes, my friends. I'm going to try to count the amount of substance that was created in a $20 billion business volume. Once from $20 billion in business volumes, one, the most important part of foreign contractors take their workers out of Turkey and create a job, create bread. It's a very important phenomenon. I mean, he's part local, but he's heavy, and he's always taking the weight of his work out of Turkey. The number of Turkish workers, Turkish contractors and Turkish businessmen working for this country abroad is a very important number. For one thing, it creates a very important job, and with the work it creates, our people provide their food and their food from there. Of course, another issue -- the benefit of foreign contractors to the country -- is that no matter what work they do there, whether it's construction contractors or construction contractors -- if it's a taxpayer in Turkey, they're taking away a significant portion of the goods they're going to use there from Turkey. So what he does there is he does everything from Turkey... which means that foreign contractors, these people, they're really gonna get their hands kissed. It's nothing done here. It doesn't matter to them. It's important, but it doesn't matter. Why? We don't care enough about these people who've given the country so much foreign currency, who've created so many jobs, who've imported so much from the country, who import from Turkey, who import products, and we don't solve enough of their problems. What's wrong with them? Now, let's talk about them. My dear friends, for one thing, we don't have a bilateral agreement with some countries. When we don't have a bilateral agreement with some countries, our friends pay back taxes. For example, our contractors who do business in Libya are a very important figure for Turkey -- they pay 42 per cent tax in Libya, friends. But when the two of them try to bring the tax money to their company in Libya because they don't have a bilateral agreement, the Treasury says: "Hey, let me see, I'll get my tax too." Friends, I paid 42 percent of my taxes there. Therefore, the most important part of contractors operating abroad do not bring their money to Turkey. It's a very important resource for Turkey. I said that to Mr. Secretary of the Plans and Budget Commission and to Mr. Chairman of the IRS. If there's an exception to the income tax on Turkey's part of the tax paid by contractors working abroad, there's a very important source, my friends, but no one is aware of it, no one's finding a solution. You don't get taxes from people who come from abroad who buy bonds in Turkey, who buy treasure bonds; you say that with the sweat of their foreheads, the years of experience in very difficult conditions, only when they bring money from people who bring currency to the country to Turkey, wait, brother, I'll get taxes from you. It's a very sad situation, and Turkey is cutting its own branches, my friends. I propose here, I shout again: Turkey will have a very important source of income tax if institutions pay taxes in countries where people who are contractors abroad have paid taxes in countries where they work, if they don't get income taxes from their profits to Turkey. I'm going to draw the bottom one more time. That's their biggest problem. Somehow he's bringing this money, the money his house needs, the money he's bringing for vaccinated bread, from abroad to the company that's interested in his own money. He brings it in as a loan, and all these companies seem to owe money, fellas. But there's no such debt. He's bringing his own money from abroad. But unfortunately, it's taxed when it pays off, so our friends can't somehow get their money back. First of all, this is part one, guys. Second, friends, there have been many incidents in Libya. A lot of Turkish contractors haven't received a penny in about two years. They've got workers, they've got institutions he's worked for for years, they've got debts, they've got tuition. These people have honor, honor. As a government, it's not a blessing if their only problem is fixing it in a way that people who have tax debt in Turkey and who are being restructured because of tax debt can't get money just because of the configuration. First, take care of the money of people who can't afford it in Libya. What is the matter with you, brother, to people who haven't been able to get home for two years? These contractors have a lot of bank loans, a lot of letters of collateral, but unfortunately, as a government, you've only caressed their cheeks, you haven't been there for them. You've always looked at the spiritual side of things, but they've lost a lot financially. What did Turk Eximbank do? These contractors have a lot of bank loans. They're in very difficult conditions. They were impounded by banks, because they couldn't get what they were going to get out of there. Everyone ran away from these people, but no one made a sound. There's a lot of rights out there that these people have earned, that they deserve. You're giving Libyan $ 200 million, but my brother, my contractors are getting this much here, so when the war's over, do you guarantee what I'll get? We're still looking. I'm saying it again. Sarkozy's gone, he's taken the goods, he's taken 35 percent of the oil, he's taken the goods, but we, as Turkey, are still our biggest market, our contractor market, right now we have a $16 billion volume of business there, but these people are miserable. I mean, shame on us if we're trying to solve the problem by delaying the structured tax debts of our contractors overseas, the taxpayers who only owe taxes here! We don't take care of these people. We've neglected a group that brings freckles to Turkey, costs Turkey nothing, takes the money it earns, comes here, spends it, hires people, brings goods from here to there; not today, we've neglected it for years, not today. Likewise, in countries without mutual agreements, our working brothers and sisters face significant tax problems, and likewise, in countries without bilateral agreements, there are no bridges between the social security institution there and the Social Security Agency in Turkey, friends and our friends are significantly victimised. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, a chicken lays a golden egg. We can't take care of these people who don't cost anything but to bring foreign currency to the country. My dear friends, there is a natural disaster in the first article of this law, and there is a postponement of tax debts, which have been constructed the same way in the regions of the natural disaster. Van and Simav, for example. That's got to be it. We've always supported and supported the Republican People's Party group to the end. There was no Simav in the bill. Along with our friends, we asked that Simav be included in this, along with my friends at the Commission. However, there are floods in many different parts of Turkey, of course it's a disaster, and they need to be in it. We should not specifically say Van and Simav. If, of course, there's a disaster somewhere, everyone should do it, we should attach it to a vending machine. So, as the Republican People's Party Group, we see that as incomplete again. The disaster -- of course, certain friends in the Tax Usul Act -- must be applied in the same way that it's established there -- is the law for Van. There's no law against Simav. We have Van and Simav, wherever there's disaster -- the missing part of this law is just being shaped, not given the name, the purpose is about the earthquake in Van and Simav. But there's a lot of problems with a lot of tradesmen who have been hit by floods, and they have to be delayed tax debts, but unfortunately, that's not in the law, my friends. My dear friends, we, in the first form of the law -- I mean, about the foreign contractors and the earthquake of Van and Simav -- have all the support we have with the friends of the Commission, we will support them to the end, but this needs to be raised. We said, "The problems need to be resolved more." We said. But again, during the Commission, there was a decision on the laws of law -- that my friends will discuss the matter of Article 2 (also added at the last minute) -- that the State Water Affairs General Directorate was removed from the 5018, adding a sentence on the part of the tenders there to be made by debt abroad. Whatever's done in this country, we stand by production to the end, my friends. But everything has to be done according to procedure, everything must be inspected, not taken out of public supervision, nothing, that's what we're up against. Otherwise, it's our duty to find resources for all the dams and other services the State Waterworks will build all over Turkey, and we're not all against it. It's just being taken out of control... piety is the reckoning, and piety is the reckoning. Why are we missing control? That's what this is about, guys. Otherwise, we've backed this law to the fullest, but it's incomplete. And there's a law-enforcement procedure that's outside the jurisdiction and the DSI General Directorate has been removed from 5018. From this angle... Your proposal for foreign contractors is very simple, extremely inadequate. We have to give them a lot, we have to delay their debt, Eximbank must vouch for their debt by taking care of it. Because they're chickens that lay golden eggs, and they're jobs, and they're goods from the country. Again, our lack of disaster: not just as Van and Simav, but God forbid, when there's a new disaster in any part of Turkey tomorrow -- the flood, the people's goods are gone, everything is gone -- we need to be with them as a state, we need to be with them. What we're saying is, let's hook this up to a vending machine. Of course, there's a description of the disaster. No matter where in Turkey -- let's not make laws separately -- if there's a disaster there, let it take advantage of the law. That's what we're talking about, guys. We look up to the law, but they're incomplete. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0086par0608	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Now Mr. Right would like to make a one-minute statement from his location. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0087par0613	Thank you, Mr. President. I just took advantage of the 37th Amendment and offered a bill to our House. My goal in the presentation was to establish the Anti - Tree and Erosion Foundation. AKP Deputy Director Mustafa Elitaş Bey has made a statement saying that such a directorate exists and therefore there is no need for such an offer of law. As far as I've learned from the Ministry, there is no such general directorship, along with the last decree of the law, as there is a general directorship under the name of the General Directorate for Deserting and Anti-Erosion. So in my proposal for this law, the main goal was to create the wooding, to create new resources for wooding, and to prepare for global warming in our country now, but, of course, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was not properly informed, along with the statement of Mr. Elitas. And here I am, being a victim of the law. I'd like that to be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0088par0617	Your statement has been filed, sir. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Party for Peace and Democracy, Van MP Özdal Threeer. Here you are, Mr. Threeer, 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0626	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group about the restructuring of some numbers 6111 and the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and other Laws and Laws and Amendments to the Amendment of the Law. I'm starting to speak with respect to the General Assembly. The most important thing about being a social government is to ensure that its citizens are assured of any negative that could happen to them in their lifetime. In any case, all material, spiritual, and necessary material responsibility for the establishment of life must be fulfilled as an obligation to be state, state, and social state. If, as in all the countries of the world, a law should be made in our country, based on the responsibility of securing all social, economic rights of our citizens, citizens involved in economic problems, active economic trade, and all of our citizens who are not actively involved, then we support it unconditionally. Regardless of the issue, there is the responsibility of the social life of our citizens, who do business abroad -- out of their own will -- to fulfill the social responsibility of the state's social responsibility for the situation in which the political, conjunctural situation of the country reflects its impact on its own economic life, and to cover their losses, to postpone taxes, to delay insurance responsibilities, even to compensate for their losses. We support the arrangements for this matter. Hakeza, about natural disasters, there is a fire, there is an earthquake, there is a flood, and in any natural disaster, it is the social and economic responsibility of the state, until any citizen is alone, with his family, or with all citizens, and by the process of removing the effects of that disaster, until life is normalized. The fact that North African countries are experiencing conjunctural processes and bloody civil wars, the fact that people are losing their lives in these civil wars, the process of the slaughter of peoples in those countries, in essence, in the pursuit of socioeconomic resources or political, social power, in a way in the struggle for balance, is not very controversial. Who was Gaddafi? What power did he have that made Gaddafi prevail, and what power to destroy him, and what power to replace him? Why did millions of people die? Where's the battle to own oil reserves? What was Turkey's role in this? What was the role of international forces in this? Why do people die in Syria? Why can't people achieve social welfare in Iraq, Kurdistan, Turkey? What is our country's responsibility, what should it do? What political measures need to be taken, what social measures, what economic measures? A Parliament to think about is not fulfilling its historical responsibility. Unfortunately, as if it were a personal matter of the Prime Minister's, here is a Erdogan-Esad quarrel, Erdogan-Sarkozy quarrel, a concept of Erdogan-Kaddafi bickering. It's not like that. There are bloody civil wars in the Middle East, where hundreds of millions of people share the common destiny, and there is a possibility that this bloody war will spread to our country, and there is a sense of power that serves imperial policies. What are we going to answer for our children tomorrow? Mr. Erdogan says that Assad-a-Eden will find it. Yeah, let's find it, let's all find what we've got. What if we, in Israel, in Libya, in Lebanon, in Arabia, in Syria, in any place, we condemn all the deaths and hope that those who do so will find what is in Roboski? Look, 34 of our citizens have lost their lives together, so it's a huge echo. We have to have the same sensitivity when even one of our citizens has a nosebleed. We have dozens of citizens who have been killed by the soldiers of this country, one by one, within Van Province alone, during this period of power.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0090par0633	Why were they killed?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0634	For carrying a can of diesel and taking it away. There are reports of this in the Human Rights Commission, Congressman, you may go and look. You can go check it out... you can go check it out... 14-year-old boy...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0090par0635	Don't criticize everything, leave it alone.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0636	You've turned bullying into a culture, and I don't need to answer you. The reality of this country is obvious.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0090par0638	It's obvious.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0639	There's persecution in this country, and it's because of the power that you've been taunting and arguing the agenda, the power that you've been representing. There's another kind of persecution. There was a Van earthquake... yes, there was a Van earthquake. We've had earthquakes in our country before, and we know we have thousands of citizens who are still shocked by the earthquakes they've had since decades ago. We feel their pain deeply, deeply, deeply. We need to feel the pain of suffering, not just in our country, but in Düzceya, or in Istanbul, or anywhere else in the world, and that the state in this country should be able to accept its social responsibility and make amends for their harm. Tens of thousands of our people were victims of the Van earthquake, not just the earthquake, but the cold, and he continues to be a victim. We still have people living in tents at minus 20 degrees. However, the Prime Minister said in January there would be no one left who didn't. Well, isn't there any way this country can buy containers? Maybe even the fuel costs of the planes that bombed Roboski were enough to satisfy the need for containers of hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of thousands of people in Van. But on the one hand, planes -- unknownly, they get up, they bomb their own citizens, the children are being slaughtered, and we don't know how many million dollars are being spent to slaughter those 34 children, but just in case there's a lot of expenses, Mr. Prime Minister Van, they don't count the earthquake in the disaster, they don't call it a disaster, they don't call it a disaster. You know what the Van people say? Mr. Prime Minister, because of a small flood in his own province, I don't think so, because of the sentimentality that people have experienced... that there should be a disaster in a small or large disaster area where the laws of the region and the disaster area should be carried out. When one person and one person and other living beings are hurt, the state must fulfill its social responsibility, but how many hundreds of people have to lose their lives in order to be considered a disaster, how many people have to be homeless, how many people can't have their own children's funerals? I want to share a memory: I was in Ercish, a young man approached me, and he said, "Mr. Deputy, can I offer you something?" Of course, he learned from military order, and what he did, probably for the first time, he saw a deputy that close to him. I said yes. I said yes. Nothing, I'm just saying. I have 100 lira. He said. So I laughed -- in the density that I lived in -- I said, "Well, there are people who don't have $100." He said, "No, it's not what you know." He said, his eyes watered. I'm sorry too, I don't know what it's about when you talk about money directly. You know, I know there are people who don't have 100 liras because you're just talking about money. I said that. I said that. And I have to talk about it -- I don't want to stress it, but I've had so much going on about values that I have my own imagination. He told me: I have 100 lira. My child was buried in the rubble, they took him to Diyarbakır, he died and they called me, and if I don't go and get his funeral, they'll bury him in the cemetery of the orphans. Now, in a country like this, in a world like this, isn't there any way to bury an eight-year-old boy who died in an earthquake?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0091par0644	Ozdal, say thank you, come.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0645	No, I'll talk to him. I apologize. [[From the AK PARTY rows, the voice was understood.]] I'll pass on that, I have other things to say. With that young friend of mine...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0092par0650	Give the same attention to the fallen soldiers.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0651	My dear friend, please, it's not about this, there's a lot to be said, there's a lot to be said on this agenda of Congress, and I'll sort it out briefly. Please, by competing with such pain... I suffer more than you, but you're the one who decides to operate. I've voted no every year in this Parliament for soldiers not to die, Kurds not to die, Turks not to die, teenagers not to die, but people like you say yes every year. That's what war is: death, blood, tears. Are you saying there will be war and there will be no death? Don't you think there'll be war and there won't be death? When there's a war, there's death, there's blood, there's tears. If you don't want to do politics over these deaths, the operations must be stopped and negotiations for peace talks must be launched immediately. It's so easy to make a move from here. We're on the 108th day of the earthquake, the 91st day of the second earthquake; people still live in tents - 20 degrees below freezing. The containers were given, the materials in it were tendered. Let's explain which of the members of parliament's relatives received these tenders. But why can't people get the locker or the disposable material in the container, even though it's being auctioned off, even though it's being paid off? There's corruption, corruption on earthquake funds. Where was it given? We say, sir, it's an electric debt! Now, the government has been paid for the relief of the people for the earthquake. Now, haven't millions of people's emotions been exploited? The people helped the government with the earthquake? The government was supposed to help people. Trade's stopped. The tax debts have been paid. It's been tried, but the loans are not paid. Loans, individual loans, commercial loans, these are the victims of thousands of trades. It can reset all $1 billion, 700 million in loans; it can reset all of them. So this country doesn't have the economic power to compensate for the loss of its citizens? The shopkeeper can't do business. Go to the Chamber of Industry and Commerce, ask. Think about it, COSGEB is taking a positive step, saying: "You prepare your credit projects, we will support you. But banks, sir, don't lend loans to the Vanese shopkeeper. Why? There's no solid collateral. How can there be solid collateral in the earthquake zone? Animalism is dead, but only the centre is provided with animal support. So, does the citizen of Muradiye (Muradiye) have a problem with livestock in his village, producing animals and selling meat to Van? Only small heads and cattle manufacturers are being helped at the Van and Ercish border. Where did the man who was animalizing with the other man sell his sheep? He was selling it in the square in Van. But it doesn't work. Didn't the earthquake affect that animalist? Didn't it affect Gürpınar, and The Striking, and Muradiye, and Ozalp, and Saray? No, he's just being treated with a sense of commerce and efficiency. "Memura 300 lira earthquake compensation will be paid. Teachers were cut for two months, why? You didn't attend the class for two months. I wish the teachers had not had the earthquake. I mean, what kind of logic is that? You don't go to class, you don't go to class, we don't give you this compensation. You give public workers $300, you give them compensation, and you limit it to overtime. On the contrary, you should've given teachers an additional allowance for housing in addition to those extra classes he could take beyond 300 lira compensation. Has the education problems been resolved? No. Where are half the students? Where are the families that were immigrated? How does he live? A student has just arrived today, and he says: "I am having trouble reading in Akşehir, I can't read. Isn't there a dorm in Ankara where I can study? These are people's problems, not just for politics. One million of these million people were not from BDP. Not all of the people who emigrated, were victims, lost their lives were BDP people. They voted for you, and they voted for you, and they voted for you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0093par0659	I don't want them to give it to me anymore.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0089par0660	The desire of the Chamber of Commerce says: "Let our debts, our loans be delayed, the interest of our tax debts be repaid by the Treasury, and in a year or two they must not rush us and ask for their debts back." Your citizen's three-month loans have been postponed at work, and now the banks are pressing, trying to demand them all in public. Well, the earthquake hit here, the bank hit, the government hit, what would this citizen do? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If there's going to be an earthquake and disaster zone, Van must first be declared a disaster zone and the laws of the disaster zone must be implemented. There must be no difference between any region. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0094par0666	Thank you, Mr. Threeer. Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Erkan Akçay is a member of Manisa. Mr. Akçay, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0095par0671	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the National Party of Action for Law Proposal 150. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute your honorable delegation. Dear MPs, I would like to first remind the public about a year ago of Law 6111, which we call the Torba Law. This Law, based on the restructuring of some of its deposits 6111, but includes hundreds of other issues, was passed on 13 February 2011, and came to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as 216 articles, which later found 234 articles along with temporary substances. We found it largely correct as the National Movement Party, which is primarily urgent, and is expected by millions of citizens, to be involved in almost a large number of areas of the matter of debt structure, which is expected with hope. However, the bag that came first with 113 frames was filled with whatever was found by the ruling party, and it was not the Law of Bags. The National Movement Party, as always, had done a positive, constructive opposition work on the subcommittee and top commission talks of this bag of legislation and the General Assembly talks, and we had criticised the negative issues, worked to get them out of the bill, supported and contributed to the substances we saw favourably. That is why we, the National Movement Party, have contributed to what we call the Bags Law at a minimum in the Commission and the General Assembly. However, dear friends, it is important to express that the AKP government is very carelessly drafting legislation. I've done it. It's almost as if Turkey is trying to force it out of the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly. Again, that view applies to this Bag of Law, which was legalized on February 13, 2011. I've done it. He's based on the majority of things in his logic. However, on February 13, 2011, 15 days later, on February 28, 2011, Turkey presented a new bill to the Grand National Assembly, which was legalized on 29 March 2010, and was replaced by Articles No. 6215, Articles 17, 83, 166, 173 and Interim 11. The Law Proposal No.150 that we are now discussing with you is now being changed again in this Bag of Law 6111. The first twenty-one articles of the Bag Law were related to the restructuring of the debt of citizens, and the Council of Ministers is authorized to consolidate their debts and extend their first installments by a month. With this law proposal, it is also required that the Council of Ministers be authorized to extend payments to those who owe to apartments in places of disaster, such as Libya, for example, and those who are responsible for these conflicts in both Turkey and abroad. Of course, as a matter of fact, it's not enough, but it's an arrangement that we find correct. And I'd like to put that as an anthrparanthesis. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, a very important part of our country is at risk of certain disasters, especially earthquakes. Most of the existing structures, however, are not resistant to potential disasters, and even in a medium - violence earthquake, they are bound to be severely damaged and destroyed. An earthquake occurred on 19 May 2011 in Kütahya Simav (Kütahya Simav) and on 23 October 2011, following the 1999 earthquake of Marmara, which killed tens of thousands of people and caused very high financial losses. On this occasion, I would like to express my condolences on the mercy and family of our citizens who have died in these earthquakes. However, months have passed since these two earthquakes, but the problems of our earthquake survivors are still unresolved. The law proposal that we're talking about is actually an extension of these unresolved problems. The Marmara earthquake in 99, covering 9 provinces and 16 million, is much larger than the Van earthquake. In the earthquake of Marmara on August 17, 376,000 houses and around 80-90,000 buildings were destroyed. At that time, however, there were 44,000 temporary dwellings in seventy-five days and 42,000 in 17 months. Dear lawmakers, risk management is very important in an earthquake. If an earthquake occurs in Istanbul, does the government have an action plan on Istanbul? Let them explain, if they do. God forbid, what would have happened if such an earthquake had happened in Istanbul and not in Van? Our Van earthquake victims brothers are still staying in the tents. Why? There's not enough prefabricated structure for him. Well, why don't you? Because prefabricates during the National Movement Party were sold during the AKP government, valued MPs. In the winter months, in the snow, in the mud, at minus 30 degrees in the air, it's almost unjust to people, to invite disease. Article 56 of the Constitution shall determine that everyone has the right to live in a healthy, balanced and secure environment and shall carry duties to the state. Again, according to Article 23 of the Constitution, the state must ensure social and economic development and carry out healthy and regular urbanization. The damage caused by the earthquake was human error and the failure of the institutions. Governments who do not do what needs to be done in time are responsible. On February 2, 2012, the bill for the transformation of disaster-threatening zones was transferred from Prime Minister to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Why didn't you bring up this law in your nearly nine years of power, when the earthquake struck us at the Kütahya Simav, and the van? The great earthquakes and subsequent earthquakes that occurred in the Marmara region and the recent earthquake that occurred in Van Nah revealed this truth in a painful way. Some parts of our country and the settlements around here are still at high risk of earthquakes. To put it simply, dear friends, power has fallen beneath these earthquakes. The foreign policy of power, periodical, dreamers, shape-forming, unreliable and unconvincing of national interests has unfortunately brought our country to an impassable point in the international arena. It is said that the cause of this proposal is the removal of the victims of our citizens in countries like Libya, where political problems occur. Dear friends, it is perhaps one in a thousand that is brought up with this proposal of the law and called a sacrifice. So you don't solve the problems of these citizens by extending these installments to the taxpayers who took advantage of Bags 6111. And I'd like to continue to say that as of today, there is no country without Turkey's problems. The point in which we arrived in Libya, where we went first to receive a reward, and then, forgive me, to take heads and welcome Gaddafi's murderers in Turkey, unfortunately, is the tip of the law. So there are problems in these countries, and the most of these problems are our foreign contractors and business people. It shows us what it brings to the benefit of our country, what it does, what it does, what we should study it very well, what we should discuss. The Prime Minister is having problems with Israel, Greece, Cyprus, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Armenia, and even Azerbaijan as part of the Grand Middle East Project, which he himself says is the Co-Chair, and those problems continue because the AKP is not acting independently in foreign policy. The fact that Turkey's existing foreign policy practices have been bankrupted by a zero-problem policy that has no benefit to Turkey or to our national interests. Unfortunately, we regret to inform you that no issues in international relations have been resolved in favour of Turkey during the Justice and Development Party rulings. If it's resolved, whatever foreign political interest we have in favour of Turkey, please let the ruling authorities, the ministers, explain it from this bench. The 61st Government Programme says that our country has risen to regional and global actor status in foreign policy. If we've become a powerful international actor, then why are we still having problems that are said to have happened because of the confusion in Libya and because of political confusion in the 150th Law Proposal abroad? It's been months. Is Libya still quiet? So we can't collect the debts of our contractors, businessmen, who do business in Libya, and we can't solve their problems, and we have to extend the installments of their debt in Turkey for another year? Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid this law proposal shows the failure of power due to the earthquake, as well as the failure of foreign policy. If this law is part 2 of the proposal, the valued lawmakers also show a lack of carefulness of power. The State Water Affairs General Directorate was changed from being a budgetary institution to a special budgeted institution, but there is also an arrangement for the use of these external loans, as the problems of foreign loans used by State Water Affairs are not considered. Again, on this occasion, I'd like to remind you of something. It always comes in retail like this. There is a 98-alarm clause of Bags Law 6111, valued MPs, which was supposed to be covered by the Social Security Agency, regardless of whether or not there are casualties, casualties, social security, but the last joke of Article 98 (98) stated that the costs will also be covered by the Ministry of Social Security and the Ministry of Health. It's been over a year, these procedures and foundations haven't been determined yet. Hopefully, we will also address this issue in negotiations on these substances, or in drafts and proposals to the Plans and Budget Commission, but I already present this 98th article to the attention of the General Assembly, and with these thoughts I pay tribute to your delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0096par0694	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Mr. Vedat Demiröz.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0097par0697	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group regarding the Reconstruction of the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and other Laws and Laws. I salute you all. As it is known, Law 6111 was published in the Official Gazette of February 25, 2011. It is said that Law 6111 is the most comprehensive agreement of our republic's history. A very important part of these laws included conflicting areas between the state and citizens, their debt-taking relations that are being discussed in the judiciary or monitored in the executive office, while another important part is not yet in the process of trial and execution, but in the near and long term, the case covers potential conflict areas that could be carried out. Under the law, almost 30 public administrations, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Undersecretary of Customs, Social Security, the municipal private administrations, municipalities, water and sewage administrations, will receive taxes, insurance, and tuition, and their punishments have been restructured. During the meeting of the law at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it has been said that the results would contribute substantially to the public budget, while citizens would be relieved of some serious burdens that put pressure on their work, their desire to develop and expand their business. Today, Law 6111 is clearly contributing to Turkey's economy and citizens-state relations in significant ways as a result of its practices. This law states that 5,250,000 taxpayers have applied under the law and have been linked to 6,200,000 payment plans. The amount of debt is 39.4 billion liras. The amount of $13.4 billion has been collected, so there has been a 34 per cent collection. In the same way, according to Social Security Agency data, there have been 2,340,000 applications, a total of $30 billion in debt, and 8.3 billion have been collected so far. The collection rate is 27 per cent. This time, the law proposal has been prepared by our Deputy Group President Nurettin Canikli to extend the period of payment on the debts they must pay under Law 6111, due to outstanding political risks in places which have been declared as a motive for natural disasters and some of those who are considered to be a reason in foreign countries. A new authority is granted to the Council of Ministers at the point of extension of the loans imposed on the end of the payment period, added to Article 6111 of the Law, which gives the Council of Ministers some powers. The powers vested in the Council of Ministers are to extend the period of payment due to the Law 6111 due to debt structured but unable to pay debts due to natural disasters, and to those whose taxpayers are operating abroad due to extreme political risks in the countries in which they are operating and therefore unable to pay their debts under the Law. At the point of the detection of debtors in both cases, tax law has been referred to as the rule of reason. In tax law, one of the reasons that is considered an obstacle to the implementation of tax homework is natural disasters. In the proposal, an arrangement for debtors exposed to natural disasters in our country since February 25, 2011, on which Law 6111 was issued, was based on the grounds where the Finance Ministry declared the existence of a strong cause based on its authority from tax law, and was allowed to extend the payment of payments due to the debtors in these places, according to Law 6111, after the disaster date of the disaster. The proposal includes two separate criteria for those operating in foreign countries: the first is that the debtor is a taxpayer and that he operates both in Turkey and abroad. The second is that the country, which has been identified by the Ministry of Economics as having an extraordinary political risk, has been affected by the fact that its situation has been accepted as a reason for its failure to carry out its tax homework. Although tax laws are based on the rules of tax law, it aims to allow the taxpayers in this situation to extend time to pay not only for installments they must pay to the Finance Ministry's tax offices, but for all the structured administrations they will receive. If such authority is used by the Council of Ministers, it will also benefit the taxpayers who are operating abroad because their personal status is negatively affected by the extraordinary political risks in foreign countries, while the taxpayers, who are considered to be a strong cause under Article 13 of the Law, will document their situation and will benefit from the provisions they must pay to other creditors outside the Finance Ministry. Debtors in places that have been declared a cause of natural disaster may benefit from the provision provided without notice for the sums they should pay to debtable apartments in these places. The 2nd article added to the proposal during talks in the Plan and Budget Commission is to address the failure of the State Water Affairs General Directorate from the general budget management status to the special budgetary management status of the State Water Affairs General, published in the Official Gazette on November 2, 2011, and the implementation of the amendment to the institution's allocation of foreign financing loans from the Treasury Undersecretary. General budgeted organisations can use external project loans as a part of the Law on Public Finance and Editing of Debt Management 4749. In these loans, the debtor is the Undersecretary of the Treasury. Private budgeted companies do not receive credit allocations. State Water Affairs used foreign project loans as an allocation when it was a general budget, and transactions were carried out on behalf of the Treasury Undersecretary. Given the size of the General Directorate's investment projects, the loan must continue to be used as allocated as it was in the General Directorate of the Highways. Article 2 of the proposal was edited to ensure that foreign financing loans provided by the Undersecretary of the Treasury can be used to the institution through allocation and to continue the use of loans assigned to the institution in the past. On the other hand, due to the use of loans in the method of allocation to the above institutions and the fact that these institutions are part of the central management budget, the Treasury Undersecretary's budget has passed an exception clause of Article 4749 for Article 14 in order to prevent the grant allocation of multiple funds in exchange for these use. On these grounds, I declare that we, the AK PARTY Group, have found the offer of the law positive and will vote in favour of our great House.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0098par0715	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Speeches for the group are complete. On behalf of the individuals, Congressman Abdulkerim Gök. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0099par0719	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As it is known, Law 6111, which is called the Torba Law, was set up as a law that structures close to three hundred recipients and applies temporarily. Although the law states that if the payments are not carried out during the period of the installments, no state agency has been authorized at the point of extension of the installment payments, although it is stated which procedures will be applied and which conditions will not be considered a cause of violation. The proposal for the law that we are meeting today has come to the agenda as an offer to extend the payment period for payments to those who have suffered from debtors and taxpayers operating in foreign countries due to extraordinary risks and therefore unable to pay their debts under the law. At the point of the detection of debtors in both cases, tax law has been referred to as the rule of reason. One of the reasons for taxing is natural disasters, which are considered to be an obstacle to the fulfillment of tax homework in tax law. Due to natural disasters that took place in our country since February 25, 2011, the Finance Ministry declared a motive in the district of Simav in Kütahya province of Simav from 19 May 2011 to 29 February 2012, between 24 September and 31 December 2011 in the district of Rize, central and districts of Van province of Bitlis province, in the District of Adıcevaz and Patnos district of Ağrı district of Patnos from 23 October 2011. In tax law, the period for the fulfillment of tax homework during the circumstances of an overwhelming cause stands, allowing these assignments to be fulfilled after the date of the fact that the reason for which the overwhelming reason has been removed. Under this rule, debtors in places that have been declared a motive have been ordered to be authorized by the Council of Ministers to extend their payments to the apartments in these places, starting from the date of the disaster, starting with the period of the payment due to the legislation configuration provisions, starting with the month of the end of which there is a strong cause. The proposal has also been arranged for those who have been operating in the country, which has been found to be an extraordinary political risk by the Ministry of Economics, operating in foreign countries, and whose situation is considered an exceptional cause according to Article 13 of Law 213 due to its activities in this country. Thus, it is possible that the taxpayers in this situation will be able to extend the payment period they must pay during the period that they are still responsible for the consolidated accountary administrations under Law 6111. Although the provisions of the Tax Utilities Act are based on the fact that the taxpayers in this situation are not only instalment payments to Finance Ministry under Law 6111, they are also on the basis of their payments to all the administrations they will receive. If such authority is used by the Council of Ministers, it is clear that the taxpayers operating abroad will be able to benefit from this provision for those responsible who are operating in the country, which has been identified by the Ministry of Economy as an extraordinary political risk and whose personal circumstances are considered a compelling cause, by documenting them, to pay off other creditors outside the Finance Ministry. Debtors in places that have been declared a cause of natural disaster may benefit from the provision provided without notice for the sums they should pay to debtable apartments in these places. Mr. President, you and I have once again had the opportunity to share the opportunities of Law 6111 with you and the public on the basis of the law proposal we're negotiating. With these feelings, I salute the great Parliament and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0100par0728	Thank you. Now, Mr. Lütfi Elvan, the Commissioner. Here you are, Mr. Elvan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0101par0733	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to make one thing clear. There may have been a misunderstanding that the State Water Affairs General Directorate has been removed from Law 5018, and there is no such thing. You know, the State Water Affairs General Directorate has moved from the status of a budgetary institution to the status of a special budgetary institution under the decree of the law. Due to its special budget status, it is listed on the list of the State Water Affairs General Directorate (II). Law 4749 has a statement that this allocation can be made to the Treasury Undersecretary, the public administration, the board of higher education, universities and the General Directorate of the Highways under the general budget. Here the statement of the State Department of Water was added after the statement made to the General Directorate of the Highways. This is all due to its transfer to private budgeted institution status. First of all, these are dear friends. The second issue was, again, what was one of the issues discussed and discussed in the Commission? ▪ What country is involved in political turmoil? How and how will we determine that? The questions were raised. In addition to members of the ruling party's Commission, it has been made clear in the Commission, with the support of opposition members of the Commission. The political turmoil in the country in which they are active has been changed into the country in which the ministry of economics has determined that extraordinary political risk has been taken. Again, as you know, our firms, which will benefit from the restructuring of some debts from Law 6111, are suffering from a shortage of payments, especially due to recent events in the Middle East. Again, in addition to that, we have companies who benefit from the configuration due to natural disasters but can't pay their installments. So this is an arrangement that makes it easier for our firms and allows them to postpone their payments for a year. I wish all of our firms, all of our nation, that this bill be a blessing, and all of you have my respect, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0102par0739	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Our Karaman MP, Lütfi Elvan, is our Commissioner. Now, on behalf of his subjects, the second speaker is Ahmet Baha Öğüken, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0103par0742	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my person, Mr. Nurettin Canikli Bey, our deputy chairman of the EC PARTI Group, to restructure some of the numbers and to amend the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and other Laws and Laws. Before I speak, I salute the High Council. The proposed law is related to Law 6111, which took effect on 25/2/2011. The law, which is the largest fiscal configuration in the history of the Republic, has provided the ease to pay the accumulated debt, the settlement of the cases through peace between the taxpayer and the tax administration, the opportunity to benefit from the law for the study and the tariffing phase, the privilege of not being examined to the taxpayers who are doing the math and tax increase, the credit card that has been paid by the company's property has been made easy to the contractors who have been asked to comply with the records, to express regret, to be encouraged, to be paid by a low proportional factor of the debt, and to be paid by the loan. Yes, 5 million 248,418 taxpayers have applied for this Law, 6 million 182,767, and 39.4 billion dollars. In exchange for these funds, 11.6 billion Turkish liras were collected as of mid-October, so about 29.5 per cent were collected. These indicators I present to you show that the law serves its purpose. Today, we are discussing the proposed law, which has succeeded and has expired and has been prepared to add to Law 6111. The draft law proposal will restructure the debt-borrowing relationship between the public and the debtors. In this way, the debtors will be able to pay the debt and collect what the creditors will receive. In addition, as part of the social state principle, we will be able to provide the ease of delaying debt for social, financial, psychologically damaged citizens for reasons that are overwhelming. That way, we'll give our nation the time it takes to heal the wounds of their destruction. In essence, the bill aims to make legal exceptions for two special occasions. These two special situations include natural disasters and political turmoil in foreign countries. The recent Van earthquake illustrates these two special circumstances as a result of the political turmoil in Libya. The bill will authorise the Council of Ministers to postpone the debt of citizens living in places which have been declared a motive for natural disaster, from the date of the disaster to the end of the procrastination period, to a collective or separate year. As we all know, our country is a country in an earthquake belt. We live in a geography where there are many natural disasters like floods, landslides, panties. For this reason, our country is often needed for measures ahead of natural disasters and relief arrangements after natural disasters. These provisions are the need to be a protective, sensitive, and caring state for our citizens. That is the basic principle of the law proposal we're discussing. Again, the bill is the need to be a social state. We will be taking an important step to heal their wounds by providing material privileges to our people who have been destroyed by the natural disaster. In particular, our citizens involved in commercial activities are more financially affected by the physical destruction of natural disasters. These citizens are losing their factory, workshops and shops, where they continue their production and commercial activities, losing all equipment, machinery, and production materials, their stocks and their goods, or what they sell, are disappearing in disaster. These losses aren't just about them losing their livelihoods, they're also about the employment they provide for a lot of employees. We must not let our citizens face the loss of their services and contributions to our country's economy in person. In order to improve this dire situation, Law 6111 must be added to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers must be authorized to postpone the loan. It is not only a privilege for those in the region to delay a loan when our citizens consider the financial losses caused by disaster. As far as it's concerned, it's in the best interest of both our country and our nation. With this delay, an opportunity will be given for the recovery of the region's tradesman, which was shaken but not destroyed. At the very least, comforting the pencil of those of our people who have lost their income, who have lost their fortunes in disaster, will prevent total destruction. In this way, the country's economy will continue to value employment and addition. Those who have been prevented from bankruptcy will have the chance to pay off their debt to public administration. In short, with the bill, not just those people, but our whole country will be profitable. Again, the Council of Ministers will be authorized to postpone loans on pre- or instalment loans, which are required by taxpayers who are engaged in commercial activities abroad in cases considered a motive for political turmoil in foreign countries. This postponement warrant extends to the duration of the circumstances that have been considered a necessary cause. Like natural disasters, political civil unrest and civil wars are unexpected and destructive. In particular, it causes social, material, and psychological destruction in the lives of people who live within the borders of that country. Turkish businessmen investing in foreign countries are one of the key elements of economic growth and prosperity in our country. Our businessmen also work abroad as honorary representatives and tourist envoys of our country. They're very useful in promoting the country. Our growing number of Turkish investors are operating in many sectors, particularly construction. With brave and dynamic investors, we operate commercially all over the world. In particular, Soviet Russia and Eastern Bloc countries, which are divided with Turkish republics, are the most active countries in the Middle East and Arab countries and Turkish investors in North Africa. The biggest common problems of these countries are political instability. It is the weakness of governance due to social confusion from the cosmopolitan structure and the lack of full settlement of the culture of democracy. This has affected Turkish investors who want to assess economic opportunities in developing countries. Trade agreements between the states and our country and commercial activities under our country's protection have been interrupted by political internal turmoil, even causing financial and spiritual losses. As with natural disasters, our government will do its part in this kind of special situation. We need to act on the principle of the social state and provide the necessary assistance to our victims for a reason. These contributions, as I mentioned earlier, serve the interests of our entire country, given not only for the personal interests of those citizens, but for the tax they pay and the added value they provide for our country. In addition, with this authority, trust will be provided between the state, the merchant man, the citizen. Thus, there will be a security environment for our investors to assess the new business opportunities that will take place anywhere in the world. Our investors, one of the most important gears in our developing, branding and globalized economy, will be assured and motivated. However, if we abandon investors to their destiny, the risk factor for commercial activity abroad will be even greater. I suggest that all of our lawmakers vote in favor of helping the hard part, and hopefully, together, our entire House will vote in. I thank all those who have done their part in preparing the proposed law, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0104par0760	Thank you. All speeches on the proposal are complete.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0762	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0104par0763	Now, I'm going to give you the names of our friends who entered the system in order.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0764	Mr. President, I wanted a promise. According to Article 61, you will read those who ask for words, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0104par0765	Wait a minute... I'll read it anyway.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0766	Well, read it. You'll read it from the top.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0106par0767	Don't shout!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0768	I'm not gonna ask you! Why do you underestimate this Civil Code? Before you begin your first speeches, sir, you'll be reading anyone who asks for a word.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0770	Sit down, please.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0771	Why should I sit down? First, you read those who want words.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0772	Look, there were only three people on the list before this started, Mr. Young. Now it's done. I'll read it now and start. Please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0774	Execute the regulations of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0775	Congressmans, we will now proceed with the question-answer process. Our friends who hacked into the system...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0105par0776	No, we're asking questions. Answer me! Answer our question! I say, those who wish to speak according to the Civil Code will be read in advance before the negotiations begin. Why do you violate the Civil Code so much?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0777	Sir, I've made promises before...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0108par0778	Sir, it's not a question-answer, it's a name for the witnesses.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0779	Just a moment, sir. Listen to me. Two people spoke for their people. He doesn't exist.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0109par0781	Sir, two people have spoken. I had a say. I don't know that you don't jump in between, 'cause you're just being fun.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0782	Mr. Young, just a second Mr. Young, your request is in the third place. However, two people are promised to Lehte and against him. It is called. I did it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0109par0783	Sir, you should have read it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0784	So I asked my friends, and they said, "Well, it's coming in for a question. I'm going to evaluate you in the question.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0109par0785	The 61st article commands you, and the president reads those who want to speak beforehand. Apply the Civil Code!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0786	All right, sir, all right...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0109par0787	All right, but do it right.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0107par0788	I'm doing the right thing. The names that came here came later. The group's vice president friends know. I'd read the whole thing if I could. Congressmans, I'm going to promise to ask the friends who entered the system one question at a time. Mr. Sesame, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0110par0792	Mr. President, I'd like to ask the Commissioner through you. The ESDEP Project for Supporting Esnaf Artists was to be allowed to be taxed again in a simple way, when the tradesman and artist changed their economic status. At what stage is the Ministry of Finance working on this arrangement? Because they said they'd do it in a year. According to ESTEP again, traditional cultural and art-valued, disappearing arts would be exempted from taxes within a year. At this point, where is the Ministry of Finance's work? According to ESTEP, it would help facilitate the participation of the public tenders of tradesmen and artists. At what stage is it that these tradesmen and artists are facilitated to participate in public tenders? I want to know about the study. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0111par0797	Thank you. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0112par0799	Mr. Secretary, what percentage of the configuration has been achieved so far, and what percentage of the configuration has been violated? Two, will you give those who have violated their commitment twice in the configuration, once or twice more in the difficult circumstances of that day? Three, in sports clubs, I'd like to thank the IRS, but I'd like one more thing. So every semester, the board of directors divided their mandates, which collected an important amount of money in the name of the finances, but once again, if all those in charge of that administration can't pay off, there are those who want to pay off their debt with dignity. I wonder if you'll give those who want to split that debt and pay it back, if they make the payments, a chance to get rid of their commitments. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0113par0803	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0114par0805	Thank you, Mr. President. My question was to our Minister of Youth and Sports, but I don't see him at the moment. Mr. President, a private land in Pendik district of İstanbul has been nationalized and a sports facility has been built over it, on the grounds that it remains in the sport district, but in the past months, the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality has changed this field of sports facilities and wanted to turn it into a tourism area. I wanted to ask what's the point of taking this area out of the field and spending it as a tourist field because it's supposed to be replicating the sports fields today, when it's just becoming a Rant area. As a sports field, doesn't the government have to build more sports fields? I'd like to know our Minister's opinion on this and if what's done is true. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0115par0809	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0116par0811	Thank you, Mayor. Now, sir, when we look at the law, the law consists of thirty-three concepts. Number one: is it correct to construct certain creditors in terms of law-making techniques? It continues: How can you afford such a law technique, Mr. Commission and Minister? The second question: tax on public debt in areas under natural disasters has been abandoned in 99 earthquakes in the past. Is it possible that, again, the public debt-wise, the Simav earthquake -- it's a natural disaster -- that if the Van earthquake had been abandoned, the sense of justice would not have been restored? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0117par0815	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0118par0817	Thank you. Sir, some municipalities cut the stamp tax from the tenders, collect the tender decision-making fees, and then do it according to the IRS Act in construction over one year. Now, according to Article 6111 of Law, what is the amount of stamp tax, tax evasion, and tender decision-making fees that Ankara Municipality, İzmit Municipality, İstanbul Municipality and Manisa Municipality have collected according to this Law? Did they collect these after the sweat of this Law? He's sitting right over there. They sold a Sumerbank land there for $3,750,000 while Mr. Manisa was a congressman. The Manisa group sold it for 46 million dollars, which later bought a third of it. Now, does Bulent Bey know about this sale, or does it contribute? Otherwise, why didn't he block this tender, cause so much damage to the government? And the last thing about pensions... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why'd you cut it, Mr. President, I'm not out of time?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0119par0823	Time's up, sir. Time's up. If you want my word again, I'll give it to you. Mr. Reshad Right, our Slap Congressman...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0120par0825	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister: Is there a study of earthquake-resistant testing of all buildings, especially the official circles, in areas of earthquake-resistant, such as the North Anatolian fault line? Is there any support for the collapse and reconstruction of rotten buildings? The second question is: About 25 documents are required in the cities of Anatolia, cities and villages while the building is licensed. So people have seen it before, not in a licensed building, but in an unregistered building. So, when these unregistered buildings get easier, I mean, they want three papers, twenty-five papers for the licensed building. He'd like to know if at least some work can be done at the point of giving licenses in places where there's a shortage of earthquakes, or if registration fees can be removed, and I'd like to thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0121par0828	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, you're back in the system.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0122par0830	Thank you, Mr. President, since there's time, I'm back in the system for the question. When prisoners are held for testimony at the Diyarbakır Courthouse, we get complaints that there have been no cleaning in the area of the prisoners for a long time -- I mean, two or three years -- that the water has not been poured out, that the prisoners there lack the area to provide their civilized, civilized needs. This also constitutes a torture crime. What are you going to do about it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0123par0833	Thank you. Mr. Young, do you want to speak again? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0124par0836	Thank you. Sir, with the last pension, Bulent Bey's salary has probably increased from around 4,000 to 12 billion, has he filed a lawsuit against the administration court or the State Attorney? If he did, how much will he get for that pension? That's what the public needs to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0125par0839	Thank you. In the name of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Arinc, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0126par0841	Mr. President, thank you. The question of our friend Mehmet Ali Sesame was first to the Commission. The ESDEP Project on the tradesmen and artists asked what the situation was, what our Finance Ministry was doing, what steps it was taking. In this regard, we can say that the rewriting of the Taxes Act is ongoing. I don't know if our commissioner has anything to add. Mr. Aslanoglu, what percentage of the results have been taken due to the construction? Will there be opportunities for those who violate it twice, and he has a question about sports club managers? Of course, there's a need for an answer that needs to be based on a lot of data. I can answer that in writing. But according to information from my friends, 39.4 billion dollars were constructed under Law 6111, which was collected at the end of January 14,5 billion, 2012, at 37 per cent. The Law has violated nearly 800,000 taxpayers by not paying at all. This number corresponds to 15 per cent of the taxpayers who applied to benefit from the configuration. Mr. Dinçer's question is more about our Minister of Youth and Sports. It states that a land that has been nationalized in Pendik, was built as a sports facility, and then returned from it. We'll have to answer that in writing. Again, Mr. Tanal asked the commission. ▪ Is this commission report from the technicality of the law correct or correct? The commission will answer him. Mr. Tanal, there are complaints from the prisoners in Diyarbakir Prison. What are we going to do about it? We'll give the matter to Mr. Justice Minister. Mr. Young has a question. He says he doesn't mean me because it's the first time I've heard such a sentence, he's never said that until now!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0127par0848	No, I mean Bulent Arinc.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0126par0849	Question number one: In Law 6111, municipal fees are also structured, and tax collectors are not abandoned. Why did Sumerbank not interfere with the tender for the privatisation at Manisa? I don't have that authority. I was Speaker at the time.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0127par0851	Okay, well, that's when you were the Speaker!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0126par0852	I will answer the question of Mr. Reshad True. Our friend asked me how much their lawmakers' pensions were worth. This Law is out of this House, you know, but I'll tell you this: to those who served as Speaker of Parliament, the Social Security Act, which came into effect before 2008, included the Speakers of Parliament, as well as the provisions for the prime ministers and presidents. The law was adopted on October 1, 2008. One of our friends repeatedly stated that I had benefited from this Law, so I was paid just as much as those who left as the Prime Minister. He's not the one. I couldn't benefit from the Law, which went into effect on October 1, 2008, after I left Parliament, because a branch manager from the Department of Labor and Social Security bureaucrats of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security declares a verdict after the law is in effect. This sentence is carried out by those who will leave the Parliament after October 1, 2008. Our necks are thin with hair. 11 of our friends, including myself, who had been elected Speaker of Parliament in the past, were unable to benefit from this Law, including the late Constant Osman Avcı. We talked about it with our friends from time to time. Mr. Hamzacebi is a witness to this conversation. But it was said that a new law needed to be passed, that there was nothing else to be done. Mr. Koksal Toptan, who left after me as Speaker of Parliament, took advantage of this Law, and Mr. Mehmet Ali Şahin took advantage of it, but 11 members of parliament, including my predecessor, our senior Speaker Kemal Güven, were unable to benefit from it. In the latest legislation, it was stated that they could benefit from this law, including the heads of the 43rd Amendment, the heads of the Council of Counsellors, the presidents of the House of Representatives. There's been a breach. I haven't received this salary until now, as a retired MP, I've been paid nearly 2,500 or 3,000 lira because I'm an active MP, and I'm going to get as much as those who have been discharged by the current legislature, Mr. Kamer, after this law is in effect. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0128par0857	You're getting 12 billion, tell me, dear!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0129par0858	Thank you, Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0130par0859	Mr. President, my question hasn't been answered, I'm sorry, this is a natural disaster...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0129par0860	One second... one second... You're back in the system, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0130par0862	My dear President, I also had a question about the abandonment of public remittances regarding natural disasters, which I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary probably jumped at a busy pace, but I'd appreciate it if they'd answer that, too.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0129par0863	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0131par0864	The answer to that question is that the Finance Ministry's view of their use requires a new law to be passed. Let's also inform Mr. Tanal and our friends that there will be no preparation for this matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit01spe0129par0866	Thank you, Mr. Arinc. Dear lawmakers, negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be admitted to their Articles. I'm taking a 15-minute break now.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0129par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 62nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 150 from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now, I'm reading the reason for the motion given by Mr. Mustafa Elitaş and his friends on Article 1 of Article 2 of the proposal: Reason: The objective is to ensure that the framework of matter is in accordance with the legal technique. Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0132par0008	Mr. President, the objection is...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0133par0009	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0129par0010	...the ones who don't...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0134par0011	Mr. President, make the necessary correction.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0129par0012	...accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0135par0013	Mr. President, look, what you're doing is, you're actually authorizing a new clause, a new clause, outside the scope of the framework law. By not doing a procedure, you're authorizing it. Parliament is being violated today. In our opinion... look, we've been able to support this law by withdrawing from the Consultative Committees, by doing nothing or even by supporting it, as the Republican People's Party Group. But we think everything should be developed according to procedure. This is completely against Parliamentary law. There's a new substance clause involved, but you put it to a vote as if it were a common motion. It's definitely not right what you're doing. That's how we want it to go down.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0129par0014	Thank you. He's on the books. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, I'm going to read the interim article 25: "Submission agreements signed to finance projects in the State Water Affairs General Directorate's investment programme before the adoption of this clause continue to be used as General Manager, effective from 1/1/2012. The provisions of Article 5 and 6 of Article 14 of Article 14 of Article 14 of the 14 of the 14th and of the subsidiary of the loan are not applied on the basis of the Article 5018 of the Law (I)." On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP who wants to speak on behalf of the groups on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0136par0021	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise regarding the Law Proposal No. 150. I salute you all. The State Water Affairs General Directorate was previously changed to a government that was subject to the general budget, while the State Water Affairs General Directorate was previously changed to a government that was subject to a special budget, published in the Official Gazette, November 2, 2011. Of course, there have been many setbacks in the process, since it was carried out under a decree of law. Today we're trying to fix a malfunction about this. We just did. Again, with a recent arrangement, we were actually adding to Law 6111, which would be very wrong in terms of the regulation of the law, and it would be impossible to implement. The arrangement for Law 4749 would have been made with the amendment 6111, which was impossible to implement. These things need to be taken special care of. Such changes should not be made, especially in accordance with the law. My dear friends, this has not come to the Plan Budget Commission on the 25th Amendment, which I am currently speaking about. At that moment, 6111 was added at the last moment after the meeting. So we agreed to it, we agreed to it, we agreed to it, we agreed to it. This was a fine example of Parliament work, of commission work, of example. We agreed to this in terms of accelerating the work, to achieve its goal, but today we see that this is the case, but on the one hand, this compromise is given good examples, while on the other hand, there is an offer for a change in the Civil Code. This climate of reconciliation, the beautiful environment, is completely turned upside down, all balances are broken, tolerance is destroyed. On the other hand, you know by decree of the law, 35 decrees have been passed, and the state order has been turned around in the same way, and there has been a lot of trouble. My dear friends, at this hour, no one sees it as very important, of course, but especially with the changes brought in by the laws of the law, the state order has been really put in a lot of trouble, a lot of mistakes have been made from the top to the bottom. I'd like your attention on this occasion. Once the government's been compromised. If you know red tape, if you're coming from bureaucracy, if you're following bureaucracy right now, there's bound to be feedback coming to you about it, of course. Public bureaucracy is so depressed, they're in a lot of trouble. Unfortunately, the state's entire bureaucracy has been turned upside down by this bill of law. Some managers are less paid than the people who work under the chiefs, and there are fewer increases. There's a great deal of morale for him, there's a problem, there's a lack of coordination. And there's also a huge impact on the order of inspection, especially the control order, there's a huge gap in the government right now, there's a huge lack of inspection and control, there's a mistake, almost no inspection. Of course, there are very important consequences, and we will all experience the problems of that in the coming years. For that, there's a need for caution now. On this occasion, I would like to express this particular issue here. Indeed, state order is a mess in its institutions. In particular, staffs such as careers, professions, expertise, chefship, researchers have been manipulated. I mean, I'm not saying that my party's staff has been destroyed; I don't mean that there's a massacre to my party, to the bureaucrats of my party, that's not what I'm talking about. In general, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of trouble in the state. I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart. I'm guessing anyone connected to the government would agree. In fact, I've also made a motion to investigate. It is absolutely necessary for us to do a study on this matter. On the other hand, on this occasion, I would like to point out that the matter of the Civil Code change is likely to come up again tomorrow, but look, my dear friends, no law proposal or bill has ever been returned here in ten years as a ruling party, has come out in its time. If you've been changing a working system for ten years and bringing in another system, we're looking for other reasons as opposition. There has been a system that's been running for ten years, why is it needed to be changed? We think there's another game behind it? So, to do all this unnecessarily... that's why last week the House didn't work, we gave a bad example to the citizen. There's no need for all this. As I've just given you, what we've just made in the Commission, and what we've just done here, is that, in fact, it's been passed by your vote, and we have not objected to that. In fact, in harmony with the compromise, we can take a lot of things away, make the House work faster. Do you remember when the first motorized flight took place? The first plane flew in 1903, the first flight took place in 1903. Sixty-six years after that, the moon was set on foot. There's a tremendous change in technology that fast. This speed in technology, unfortunately, is not seen in the same way in societies. Society can't keep up with the same speed. One of the reasons for the Civil Code brought in is to keep up with technology, but technology is another thing: societies, people absorb things. It's impossible for him to walk in the same parallel, human nature, human phytrate is very different. We shouldn't push these things, we shouldn't rush, it's given the opposite results you've seen for two weeks. This issue must be resolved without causing a great deal of trouble in society as well. As a result: Law number 6111 and Law 4749, which we are trying to change, certainly with our support, will benefit, but while I was here, while the Deputy Minister was here, I asked him, as well as the Plan and Budget Commission, how many companies are involved and how many total sums are we talking about? I asked him, "How much money can we not answer here in the Commission?" You see, despite all this -- even though they don't have this kind of response, we support it, we want it to come out, we want the Parliament to continue its work at full speed, we want our country to do useful, useful work for our citizens, but we expect you to understand the opposition as a power in this regard. On this occasion, I -- let's not push your patience too hard at this hour -- give you all my regards, good evening, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0137par0031	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Now, no more words on matter for groups. In the name of his subjects, Menderes Türel Antalya MP. [[A round of applause from AKP rows]] Mr. Turtel, your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0138par0036	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the restructuring of some of the most valuable lawmakers, number 6111, and the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance, and to discuss the 2nd Amendment in other Laws and Laws. As it is known, there have been many talks about the proposal of the law. The opportunities of Law 6111 have been provided for our contractors abroad and businesses in our disaster areas, such as Van. Because of political turmoil in Northern Europe and the Middle East, the law organises the debts of our companies that are incomplete and unable to collect their debts, thus allowing our firms to continue their jobs, pay their jobs, and fulfill their commitments to the state, which is a social responsibility for our state. That's why I'm congratulating everyone who's worked for this important amendment.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0139par0040	Thank you, Mr. Türel. Second speaker on behalf of his subjects, Mr. Hussein Şahin, Mr. Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0140par0043	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Reconstruction of Laws in the Law, with the Reconstruction of Some Numbers 6111 and Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act and other Laws and Laws. I salute your high council, wishing our law proposal to our nation to be good luck and good luck.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0139par0046	Thank you. We're going to start the question-answer process on matter. Mr. Akar has entered the system. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0141par0050	Minister, when you came to this House, I promised you that every time you arrived, I would ask for the City of Cartepe. In fact, I sent a new file to your office today. But what I want to ask you now is what Sevki Yilmaz was talking to your Undersecretary, how he organized this business, and what they were talking about when they went to the Kartepe Mayor's appointment with the administrative channel. That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0142par0053	Thank you, Mr. Akar. No more questions. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0143par0056	Mr. President, I've taken Mr. Akar's rhetorical question again and I'll try to explain. In all reports and complaints made about the Cartepe Municipality and other municipalities, and even without complaints or complaints, any unlawful findings available in normal audits will be conducted by the Ministry to investigate. As there have been reports and complaints for Cartepe Municipality, there have also been some irregularities detected during inspections, which are required. He mentioned a meeting by name, Mr. Akar. People see each other in this country, as in our Parliament at first, it's discussed, it's discussed as we do now... I don't know if there's been an interview with the appointed manager, but let's assume that this meeting is not against the law, it's a human relationship. People see each other because they know each other, they see each other because they have a job, they see each other because they want to. It is not in accordance with the general principles of the law to accuse ourselves of a crime, to accuse ourselves of a meeting. The municipality of Cartepe is being processed according to the law. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0144par0061	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0145par0062	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0144par0063	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0145par0064	Minister, the meetings at Cartepe City Hall are ordinary, normal, not talks on greetings. In fact, Sevki Yilmaz scolds the mayor and the inspectors who came in. Aren't these inspectors under control? Isn't that what you've been instructed to say? I'll be able to give you phone numbers, pencil phones, and private phone numbers in a moment. I'm telling you the results of this technical pursuit. Once again, I gave you the file. I've already filed a question motion. In your response to the question motion, you said that the investigation was ongoing. Actually, he came to the fourth court. He came to the fourth court, and according to the City Code, you have the authority to dismiss the mayor. I, now, presented the documents to you today. When you examine those documents, it appears that not only is the mayor involved, but your organization is involved. I'm not going to go into that much detail, but the organizations are involved in this, women's arm presidency, the mayor of the county, they're all in it now. In the file I sent you today, I gave you the file before, you didn't read the file, so I sent it back to your office today.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0146par0069	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Minister, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0147par0071	Mr. President, there are questions and comments as a continuation of the previous problem. The investigation and investigation for Cartepe Municipality is conducted, as it is for every municipality. I gave it to you today. The files that Mr. Akar said are true, according to his statement, we have no objection and will always be made for each and every case. A new find, if there is a new document, will be assessed, or it will be considered destroyed. These are the things that will result in the normal and general functioning of the law. He's asking about a dimension of our organization. We don't have to evaluate any political party's organization here. Even if this is the party that I belong to, even if it's a party manager who's a member of our friend who's asking questions, it's not his place to be evaluated, but if there's a crime-related issue, then no doubt, the judicial authorities make the necessary assessments as to the connection and relationship to crime. It's not the first time the law works for the City of Cartepe, it's not the first time there's been any investigation for a municipality. For a significant number of executives in our nearly 3,000 municipalities, their presidents, members of parliament, are conducting legal proceedings in this country with various allegations for their staff. Some of the claims represent truth, truth, and some of it can be false. And we don't have the chance to say it's false or true here, but there are some issues in Cartepe City that need to be investigated, investigated; we've always said it, and we're saying it today. The investigation is under way for Cartepe City Hall. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0148par0074	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0149par0075	I've got time. Two and a half minutes. I'll use it until it's finished, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0148par0076	You want to speak again?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0149par0077	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0148par0078	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0149par0079	Yes, Mr. Secretary, it's true, you're right, but you're doing another app there. The inspector who investigated Cartepe City has been court-martialed, and this inspector is also the inspector who suspended the mayor of Adana. Again, that's how it's done when we're in our municipalities, and for some reason, the controllers are guilty, just like at the Lighthouse. The method of the Lighthouse prosecutors is applied to the inspector who also oversees the Cartepe municipality today. What do you have to say about that?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0148par0080	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0150par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Congressman, when our friend is done with the real part of the question, he continues the question by making connections, and I have to give him my answer in that frame. It's true there's been an investigation against the inspector. Investigators are human beings, there may be claims about them, just as there are about MPs, as there are about judges, as there are about everyone living in Turkey and who is a citizen of Turkey, there may be some criminal charges against our investigators. It is our duty to investigate, to investigate, to investigate, to investigate, if we need to investigate the allegations of Kartape City and other mayors and other staff members. We do not know what the outcome will be. He will defend himself, and he will be justified. Let's hope he's exonerated, like everyone else. He's been investigating at Adana Metropolitan City Hall, that's right. Not just there, but maybe that friend of ours has done research and investigations in hundreds of municipalities, but since you're referring to Adana, I'm referring to Adana.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0151par0085	I'm just saying that for the record.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0150par0086	I mean, just because he did these investigations without question doesn't mean he didn't make a mistake somewhere else, doesn't mean he won't. The thing is...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0152par0087	Thank you, Minister. Time's up. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0153par0088	He also made a mistake in Adana, Mr. Secretary, he was acquitted.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0150par0089	We got it then.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0152par0090	Members of parliament, I submit to your votes the interim Article 25: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands to be changed a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has attended. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following clause to Article 2 of the Common Law Proposal 150. Substance 2. At the end of Article 98 of Law 6111 until this arrangement is made, health care costs are paid by the Social Security Agency. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0154par0098	Mr. President, we don't have a majority, we can't participate.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0155par0099	Why? Wait a minute... we're on our way. Friends are coming. Mr. President, before anyone gets here... would that happen?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0156par0101	Come in, sir. There's no one here right now.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0157par0102	Mr. Aslanoglu, come in. We're waiting for you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0155par0103	We're on our way.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0157par0104	Mr. President, there are four of us now. We don't have a majority.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0158par0105	Thank you. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to read the third article: Article 3 - Article 1 of this Law is in effect on the date of its release from Article 25/2/2011; in the date of its release of other articles. On the matter, Republican People's Party Mersin MP Mr. Aytug Thrower.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0111	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 3rd Amendment of Law Proposal No. 150. I salute you all. What does the third article say? This law is enforced on the date of its publication, he says. So, what does the law say? The law says: If the Ministry of Economy, Mr. Minister of Economy, says: "There is an extraordinary political risk, I have noticed an extraordinary political risk in a country, we will help companies operating in this country. We will help companies in distress due to natural disaster." It sounds as good as any other law you've ever tried and made, and I'll even take a step further, as if the AKP is reminiscent of the concept of a social state this time. If we didn't know about your past practices, we'd really believe you, but now we know the AKP very well. You don't extend your hand enough to the people who live in Van. But you're trying to save companies. Why? I'm asking you now, do you have any idea how many companies you're thinking of saving? You were asked on the commission, asked everywhere, didn't answer. I'm asking these companies an important question -- whether or not any congressman is involved? Look, the public isn't watching us, we're talking to us. Take a look at how many companies you're going to help, how many companies have a relationship with the congressman. See what you can come up with, for God's sake. Then I'll see if those fingers of yours come into your dreams or not. You're thinking of narrating...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0160par0114	Is that how you do this kind of thing?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0115	Why are you so offended? Did I say AKP MP?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0160par0116	Is that how you make these changes?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0117	Why are you guys so offended? What's the matter with you? Why do you feel uncomfortable? I don't want to be told, I don't want to be...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0161par0119	Name them if you have the heart!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0120	Okay, so you're getting a little worked up, good. How much money are you thinking of postponing? And these companies, let me ask you clearly, how close is it to the AKP? Take a look. Take a look. You'll raise your hand now, you'll pass this law anyway, but these laws will follow you to your dreams, these laws will enter your dreams; see, see. Now, look, I'll make it very clear why you're not following your instructions. Now, I said... And I went, and saw Van, and saw Van, and studied, and slept in tents. I said, "I've spoken to the people in Van, and they said, "Mr. Deputy, you've transferred the loans from the tradesman -- God bless all the trustees, over." We're regular citizens, we can't pay our credit card debt. To us...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0162par0123	If he'd paid.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0124	If he had paid, I would have written it down. I mean, you're going to have his house torn down, and then he would have paid for his credit card. Well, to be honest, that's the least you can expect, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0162par0125	You should have paid.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0163par0126	You keep talking, my friend.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0127	If I had paid, ha, okay, that's expected of you, right, very good! Now, I did exactly what you said, and I said, "Let's either pay for this together or let's do it together." I gave it to your prime minister, no hisses, no answers, no one's answered. Just so you know. You can keep yawning. Now I'm asking you, how does a government that doesn't delay a citizen's credit card debt become a lion to delay the debt of companies? I'm curious about that. If there is an explanation, the Van people are waiting for it. An earthquake is a natural disaster? You know how you're supposed to help companies where there's natural disasters? Yes, the earthquake is a natural disaster. So -- we're always asking -- why is it that all the houses of all the people fall on their heads in the quakes of the town of Van, in the Karliova, and not in other lands? Because you came and made the natural disaster a disaster of the AKP. You're the only cause of disaster there, the licenses you gave there, nothing more. This disaster is clearly called the AKP disaster.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0164par0131	You're just making an ideological speech.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0132	Friends, ideological talk... of course, of course, here I am speaking ideologically, speaking as I please, and no one has the right to interfere from there. I don't overstep my manners. I'm speaking ideologically here, do you have any objection? Otherwise, you'll listen. Look, let me show you the ideological speech. Your Minister just said that no one is staying in the tent in Van. Isn't that right, all of you heard with your ears? We put everyone in the container, but sometimes, you know, he doesn't sleep in the house, he sleeps in the tent. Here's today's Sun newspaper. Today's Sun newspaper says that 50,000 people are in the tent. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] For God's sake, friends, now, look, let's not beat around the bush. A minister -- sitting over there -- says: "No one stays in the tent." The Sun newspaper says: "50,000 people are in the tent." I went, and I saw, and thousands of people were in the tent.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0165par0136	It's a lie, Sun newspaper.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0137	If this is wrong, if we're wrong, someone's wrong. I mean, think of it that way.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0165par0138	There's a measure to a lie. Where do 50,000 people live?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0139	You want a natural disaster? Don't go far, Hatay's here. You built an airport for Hatay. Where did you do it? They had dried up Lake Amik, and you went and built an airport on it. What happened? Now it's in the floods. Now, is that a natural disaster? Yes, it's a natural disaster, but the flooded airport there is your disaster. Now, if you're going to call them natural disasters and help these companies, Godspeed. I mean, what can I say? Is this a natural disaster or an AKP disaster? Now, the ironic part. You're saying, "Sir, there's going to be a major political problem somewhere abroad, and the companies will be affected, and we'll go, and we'll help them. I swear to God, I'm amazed. On the one hand, you go, you mess up all our overseas relationships, and then you try to help the businessmen who are affected by their screwed-up relationships. These businessmen don't expect any help from you, dear friends. These businessmen just say don't mess with our work. Let me give you a small example: Look, you have broken relations with Syria, you have turned Syria against us. Turkey's main products -- look, the Mersin MPs know it very well -- Syria is taxing 30 per cent extra. I'm ashamed, you know why? Because our businessmen in Mersin can't send goods to Syria, send them through Egypt, or take them directly through Egypt. They send their wheat and corn to Syria, and they can't sell my corn. Why? You're the reason for this. You have broken relations with Syria, and now the business of businessmen has failed. You got up behind him, and we're gonna fix it. Look, businessmen in ten provinces -- Mersin, Hatay, Gaziantep, Adana -- are crying blood over the Syrian crisis. You will say: "The blood is crying in Syria, and the blood is pouring out in Syria." That's right. I guess a sane, conscientious person wouldn't support any violence. I suppose all sane people would condemn any form of violence, but if you believe that this approach will bring democracy to Syria, then woe to you. Woe to you if you think you can save our businessmen who work with Syria, who work with Libya. Don't forget that the rulers who think they're going to hang on to the tail of the war lobby and bring democracy to their country are blood and tears in their country. I'll give you an example or two -- if you're going to go into Syria, you're going to ruin Syria -- listen to me. They've tried to bring democracy to Afghanistan. It's been 11 years. Where are we? It's been ten years since democracy came to Iraq. Look, the same imperial forces are trying to bring democracy to Syria. Please wake up, please. I know it's late, but please wake up. Look, democracy came to Sudan, divided Sudan, civil war... democracy came to Egypt, a pool of blood. Democracy came to Libya, and it's obvious what happened. And now to bring it to Syria... please, for the sake of God, don't be a party to this massacre. Our businessmen do their jobs in a different way, but in the blood that will be spilled in Syria, let's stop it now, but with your approach like this, you'll be responsible for the blood that will be spilled in Syria.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0166par0146	There are gutters of blood in Syria!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0147	Please, please don't turn Syria into a pool of blood, take a good look at the schemes that are going on there, and see what happens. America, Iraq...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0167par0148	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0159par0149	You're saying, "Allah." America went to Iraq, slaughtered with her own hands, kept quiet, but America learned her lesson, and now she's using you. Just so you know, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0168par0151	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Now, any more words? No. Mr. Kamer Young asked for a word, not here. We'll begin the QA process. Mr. Akar has entered the system. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0169par0157	Yes, Minister, now, I'm not going to ask about the cartel, we asked about it once. I'm on my way to Bolu City Hall now. Our Bolu MP has given you two questions motions (7/1416) and (7/882) and asked for representation and hospitality costs of Bolu and the municipality's municipalities and their debt and advertising costs, but each time the answer is like a joke, the debt is paid. Here are the answers, I can give them to you, I can give them to you. I wonder why this question isn't being answered correctly, just like our Bolu MP. And how many files are there in front of your Ministry, even though your Ministry has asked this mayor, the mayor of Bolu, for many investigations? You didn't authorize an investigation or do you have a special reason to hold off on these files?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0168par0159	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0170par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of Mr. Akar is again concerning our western district, and of Bolu, and of our municipality of Bolu. There are two questions from the question, as far as I can tell, given a written question motion by another member of parliament about our mayor of Bolu, which I understand is based on representation and hospitality costs. The question motion is answered in writing, so that's the way it is. But the subject has already been submitted to a written question, which is now being translated into a verbal question. He expressed that the answers were not very satisfactory, that the written answers given earlier were not very satisfactory, Mr. Akar. I understand that not an answer to the question asked by Mr. Akar, but that the written answer to the question asked by another member of parliament in Bolu, as if it were a mockery of his own statements. Of course, that's a very subjective assessment. So is the content of that written answer a content, or is it really an answer to the question? In order for us to fully evaluate this, we need to have the written answer, the text, and we can do an evaluation by trying to be objective, and we can do it. Now, he wants to know how many files there are on Bolu City Hall, Mr. Akar. There's bound to be files on Bolu City Hall, files that contain complaints about the investigation. It is possible to give the number as an oral answer to the oral question, but on one condition, if Mr. Akar would have expected that Mr. Akar would ask questions from the Cartepe, then at that point we would have come up with information and given a clear number. But in the next question-answer section, it becomes possible to explain the exact number of files related to Bolu. The Bolu municipality or any other municipality can be questioned at any time, and should be asked. Turkey is a country that asks; Turkey should be a country that answers questions; it is our principle to always be open, to be transparent in management, and we must always obey that principle. As a result, Bolu is a municipality in the central district of Bolu, where he lives and therefore serves the people whose presence is in the census. As of the census, Bolu Municipality is not a large-scale municipality; it is not a city municipality; it is a municipality. As there are some eases in producing services here, there are certain challenges as well as the amount of population. As the municipal services are perceived from the outside, such simple questions are not easy services. Our mayors, city councilmen, and workers who work in municipalities, our officers, our bureaucrats, do selfless service in Bolu, as they do everywhere. In doing the services, they strive to give services a momentum by saving funds in certain pens, by transferring funds to other pens, to other spending pens. The municipality of Bolu is naturally an AK PARTY municipality, since the question is from Mr. Akar. Since the EC PARTI is a municipality from PARTI, it must be competitive with other municipalities; it considers itself responsible, feels responsible for its people, and in this context, it is most efficient, most efficient investments. Last week, at the Assembly of Enlarged Mayors, there was also the mayor of Bolu Province, the mayor of Bolu County, and the president of the Bolu County Assembly at the AK PARTI headquarters. I just remembered a question our mayor of Bolu raised to our Prime Minister, our President. In order to produce more services in Bolu, Bolu asked for help to sell a municipal estate to the Social Security Agency in exchange for debts. As it turns out, our municipality of Bolu, in fact, carried the responsibility of being a small-scale municipality, but also showed that it was a great sacrifice and a search for the municipality in Ankara on its main route to create more prestigious services, as usual, because it was the mayor of a city. As Minister, I believe that you, as our friend asking the question, and while you are in the position to answer the question, all of us, as friends in our council, all of us, as members of the Council of the High Assembly, who are really serious about the work of our city, whose budget is based on the numbers, a challenge, a complaint, a complaint, and the need to be evaluated and investigated when necessary. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0171par0171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on Article 3 have been completed. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0172par0179	Mr. President, thank you. Congressmans, yes, I will speak to your patience with the psychological pressure of being the last speaker. Madam Secretary has used time very well, and I promise you that I will use it very well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, this proposal made by Mr. Canikli to complete certain shortcomings in Law 6111 has shown that we really need to reconsider our methods and rules of drafting legislation. For one thing, the AKP governments and the majority majority in Parliament are used to running these things by law enforcement, so we're constantly creating new laws that create problems. A material law is being discussed one day, and unfortunately due to the urgency, it creates new problems because we can't make sufficient evaluations. Now, look, Mr. Chancer has tried to explain, that law is not enough to solve problems, but it brings new problems. For example, the extraordinary political risk is entering our laws as a new expression and an element that needs to be discussed. We're assigning the Ministry of Economics to make that determination. The Ministry of Economics will determine the extraordinary political risk. How will he detect it? Is it going to be accurate? Will those who are interested in this finding object to it, sue the administration court? These arguments will bring us new problems. Again, how will the end date of the overwhelming cause be determined by whom? For example, in Kütahya, in February 2011, there was an earthquake, but is there a motive or not? When will the overwhelming reason in the van be removed? Because there's a government that's failed in the class of Van, and when is the solution to the problems in Van? At the van -- my friend just showed me -- still tens of thousands of people are staying in tents, and what particular reason is here, and when is it going to wake up, and who's going to find it? It's a question that will create new cases. Again, the natural disaster entered the law as a need to be identified. The natural disaster is the natural disaster in Van, the natural disaster in Kütahya. But will the flood of Aydül, Edirne, Hatay, be subject to this law, or not? Will the people who shed their onions in the fields because of the frost and water in the villages of Eskişehir be considered a natural disaster or not? This will bring out the new problems. It has just been added again, a clause of Law 4749 has been changed when Law 6111 is being discussed. It's been discussed whether it's legal, if it's in accordance with the rules of law. In that case, Turkey's Grand National Assembly must carry out the task of making law with a little bit more patience, a little more foothold. Mr. Hamzacebi told me just now that he presented similar law proposals. But what harm would it do if we passed a law that would be right and work by considering it all together? But Mr. Canikli came to the commission within a week because he proposed, and he was interviewed in three days. We're making law in Congress this weekend, we're doing it short, we're doing it wrong because what we're doing here is reorganizing a temporary bag of legislation that regulates the restructuring of old debts. So it's not for the future. We reorganize debts from the past, we regulate configuration, and we keep them in an uncertain environment.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0173par0189	Who are we doing this for?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0172par0190	Who do we do it for, yeah?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0173par0191	For Van...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0172par0192	Why did you do it for the Van? Why haven't you done it since October? If you're doing it for the people in Kütahya, why haven't you done it for a year? We can't...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0174par0193	We're doing it now.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0172par0194	Look, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we asked these questions in the Plan Budget Commission, and we asked them when the budget was being budgeted. All of the ministers said that no one in Libya has harmed anyone, and no one will ever get anything. But in four months, will we make a new law in Libya, or will we make a new law when the same happens in Syria? Thus, all our questions about who would benefit in Libya have never been answered. Our friends asked me today. And today, our ministers, our bureaucrats, say they don't yet know how much construction is going to take place. Therefore, it is wise to do so by making a law on this matter, and by not rushing, and by discussing everything. We need to provide enough and enough information for us. I'm afraid that's not the law that's qualified. It is a one-matter law, and now, by adding two additional substances, it has given birth to an environment in which it is inadequate to be unprepared again. So, my dear friends, as Republican People's Party MPs, we didn't get answers from what we asked in the budget and we didn't get answers from what we're asking in Congress right now. What will the state gain and what will it give to whom when it makes this law?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0174par0196	He's going to help Van.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0172par0197	You haven't been able to identify the van. If you're going to help the van, send a tent, and send containers to those people as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0174par0198	We send tents, we build houses, we send money.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0172par0199	Make it happen as soon as possible. Otherwise, you can't help people by postponing the old debts that were made by the unborn economy or by the bankrupt economy. You need to provide a trade environment for our people in Van. We need you to give our people in Van. The environment that will properly complete the economic development. Otherwise, anything that happens in this frame is just fooling ourselves. Of course, after waiting so long at this hour, I'd like to put an end to my promises before I can exceed the limit of two more minutes of endurance. But in the future, I think the Council of Ministers should have a good view of its environment, a good imagination, and a law in its place. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0175par0203	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. There's no need for words on behalf of the groups. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Gülşen Orhan, Van MP.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0176par0207	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 4 of Law Proposal 6111. I salute the grand jury. Actually, I'm going to start with the inconvenience of being the last speaker and keeping you waiting at this hour. Please forgive me. I wouldn't go past without mentioning some things about the Van earthquake, dear friends. Now, while our esteemed congressman friends here evaluated the Van earthquake, they were far away from there, without seeing what was going on, without hearing, without living. So only people who listen to these conversations will think that nothing is happening in Van.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0177par0210	We went every week. You have no right to say anything. Don't be unfair.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0176par0211	I did. This week I went to Uludere, and last week I was there. Dear friends, now, I, of course, would like to give you the answers to all the conversations. But I'd like to present you with some headlines. It's hard to answer about all this, but I'm going to answer a few things. Look, rescue studies, health services, social services, the temporary hospitality project, tent cities, damage detection studies, debris removal, destruction, container work, permanent housing, agricultural livestock, national education, soup kitchens, hot food, food, clothing, city infrastructure, industry, trade, culture and historical works. All of these are separate titles, and from the very first day, studies have come to very important stages as a result of the work that has been done. It's not right to talk without seeing it, not knowing what's out there. In the papers, yes, there may have been some news. And in the newspaper headline just now, our friend says 50,000 people are in the tent. We've distributed 75,000 tents. We have 133,000 people in the container right now. Imagine how many people are in the tent right now. 7,000 people are now in our tent cities. They're people in tent cities near their homes. From time to time, they use their homes and tent cities. In some isolated places, most of the tents that exist outside, 99 percent of the people do not live. There are 8,000 aftershocks and those people are keeping them there as a precaution. If you say 75,000 tents are full, then there shouldn't be any people in container cities. Some of the issues related to the rescue, one of our friends, the MP, said: "The rescue work was not well done. " In the first six hours, 4,418 personnel were reached, and rescue efforts reached 140 teams. These people were brought here on 104 planes in six hours. There are 295 ambulances in health care, 56 IMKE vehicles, 6 helicopter ambulances, 2 aircraft ambulances, 12 mobile service vehicles. I just mentioned tent cities. There were 74,000 tents and they are now empty, 7,000 people living in 1,400 tents. People in need of care have been sent out of town. The children were placed in children's homes in different provinces. Another story came in the other day. They said, "Here are the children who are miserable in their children's homes." It's a lie. We don't have a child there. All the love out there was sent to their homes, to their dorms, kids.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0178par0217	How many children died in the fires in the tents?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0176par0218	There are 40,000 people, the governorships of the state, the help of the people out there, who are currently in the area of eating, drinking, sheltering. He said, "Don't worry about the container again." All the container factories in Turkey built them all as zeros and sent them to Van. We're talking two rooms, bathroom, bathroom and kitchen. Permanent dwellings have been estimated to be 35,000, at the moment 15,000 of them have been tendered, continuing. Everyone here, look, everyone has to be sensitive. We wanted to run this work with the city and all the institutions, and we're running it. Our Minister was there last week, and we took full advantage of the water problems that the city couldn't do, and we chose to work with them. So when we talk about it, we need to see the right things, but in reviews, okay, amenna, and reviews, together, let's consider these issues. A friend of ours just said, "There's a contract fraud, etc. concerning the Konteyner inspection, etc., and so on. We need to bring this in and tell our friend his name. Otherwise, you'll appreciate what's his name.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0179par0225	Thank you, Mr. Orhan.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0176par0226	The United Nations appreciated his work in this van, thanking him for his work, and thanking him for his Van Ercish Kızılay. However, I thank all my fellow trustees for their sensitivity to Van. And from now on, please help us, and we'll do the service that our government has brought to this day. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0179par0229	Thank you, Mr. Orhan, your time is up. My dear friends, we will now question and answer on the matter. Two of our friends are in the system. Mr. Flush...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0180par0233	Minister, we want to thank you for representing our country in Copenhagen on 26 January 2012, at the Unofficially Meeting of Justice and Interior Ministers of the European Union, attended by the interior and justice ministers of the European Union. We see that you have put forth a truly zealous work. In the last ten years, the EC PARTI ruling has revealed serious studies, particularly related to modernisation of government mansion buildings and governorship buildings. What is your ministry's work again in 2012 on modernisation and renovation of government housing buildings and governorate buildings? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0179par0235	Thank you. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0181par0237	I have a suggestion for Bolu. The 2011 advertising spending of the Kopeeli Metropolitan Municipality is $7.5 trillion. If you control the city of Kopeeli, if you think that these ad spendings are too much, you can transfer them to Bolu, that's one. Two: You grasped very quickly, you used time very well, you didn't give any other questions, but for the question asked for Bolu, I would like to read to you the answer to the question asked for advertising costs, the expense and representation costs of Bolu. If I can, of course, our municipality has a debt to some official institutions and organisations, just as all local municipalities in Turkey do. However, these debts are structured according to the relevant laws and the latest Law, Law 6111. These loans are paid in installments. We're asking how much ad costs, we're asking how much debt he owes, we're asking how much representation costs; that's the answer we get when we ask for them. It's a joke. That's the answer you gave me in eight minutes. I think you'll take another eight minutes to tell me all about it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0179par0239	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0182par0241	Mr. Secretary, I'm very sorry that the Home Secretary -- not only those before you -- has kept his promises in the election squares, in the referendum. Since 2007, you've declared that the last cities, which have passed 750,000, will be capital cities. You've declared it a year ago. These provinces were declared in the address-based population system. I'm asking very clearly: are we going to wait for 2013, 2014, or when are you going to propose that the cities you now declare are the capital city? Will the five-year dream end this year, or will this dream stay next year, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0179par0242	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0183par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. He's just told me a beautiful story about Hatip Van. I'm reading a letter from Van. I'm going to present it to the Minister. I have a request from you. My wife -- she's had surgery, she's got a visual disability, so she can't work. I have five children. The government put us here because our house was damaged by the Van earthquake. We were living in the rent at the van, and my wife couldn't work, so I'm in charge of the house. I don't have a job. In this regard, I ask you for financial and spiritual help. My name is Gürkaya. Telephone 0546 896 69 81. With all due respect, I present to the Minister. I mean, is the citizen telling the truth or are you telling the truth? I want to know the truth about this.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0184par0246	Letters like that can come from anywhere.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0185par0247	Thank you. We don't have any other friends in the system. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0186par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. The question of Mr. Fluid is: In recent days, I went to Denmark to represent our government for the Unofficial Justice and Interior Ministerial Meeting of the European Union countries. It was a meeting attended by European countries' interior, justice ministers or ministers responsible for immigration. Twenty-four hours in Copenhagen. Meanwhile, I had talks with the British Interior Minister, our colleague, the Dutch Interior Minister, the Swedish Interior Minister, the High Commissioner in charge of internal affairs of the European Union and the Minister of Justice who headed the meeting. I also followed the meetings. Really, it's a different representation for our country. It's always our Foreign Minister who represents, naturally, but in general, as a minister of certain matters, the accession and the talks that I had made there were important, and we've been able to talk to the ministers of colleagues of the countries concerned about issues related to legal-illegal human traffic, both for terrorism and for population movements. The governorship buildings, government mansions, are one of the matters that are part of our ministry's field of duty in the provinces, and most importantly. The importance of the location is undisputed in terms of healthy and efficient production of services. In this regard, really, the construction of qualified buildings that reflect important local and regional architecture, our national architectural lines has shown itself in recent years. This year, we have concluded our investment programme today to start the construction of 17 county and county government mansions. The question of Mr. Akar is: It does not bring us to a healthy conclusion in comparison with the Bigeli-Bolu scale. The answer to your question is: you specifically asked about the city's debts, and our friends reported that they were paying and paying according to Law 6111. You, I believe, claim there's a surplus in the ads or by the congressman asking the alleged question. I mean, it's normal for someone, it's too bad for someone, it's important for someone, it's important for them to know whether there's lawlessness or impropriety, it's against the law. So no city expense pen can be equal to the other. On top of its name, it is the local government, according to local needs, according to local ideas, to make its own expenses according to local demands. As a result, it's fundamentally whether or not he uses his income wisely, manages his municipality, serves his citizen. As a result, in 2014, we all see the final result in the assessment of our Bolu, as the people of our country would do. Mr. Aslanoglu, as our Prime Minister, our government, our party, our ministers have never failed, so the promise of the capital city municipalities is never unrequited. The change in the Metropolitan Law to the construction of the city, which took up 750,000 populations in 2012, will come to our Grand Assembly as a bill of our government and...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0187par0255	2012...
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0186par0256	I started with 2012. So once I say it, it's not enough, so I'm a little sad, and it's going to come back in 2012. So I said it, and I said it again.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0187par0257	Last year, you said 2014, so I spoke for him.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0186par0258	In 2012... the year of the 2012 Legislature will arrive before the end. With all of your high contributions, I hope it will be before the end of the year of life. However, I have to state one detail: the 750,000 populations, not as of the end of 2011, but as of the end of 2012, will be based on the population, which will be found at the end of 2013, at the end of the year when the local government elections will be held. By the way, 13 of our municipalities, including Malatya, have passed 750k as of the last census, but at that time, we expect them to protect it, it is necessary. We've received Mr. Tanal's note for the Van earthquake, but we've had the Van earthquake, and we've been there, and those who weren't there as well as us can't assess the Van earthquake very well. May God protect us all, our country, the whole world and humanity from the earthquake disaster. In the Van earthquake, there was the most effective service in rescue, communications, security, all areas required by the earthquake. The containers are now in service, and the date of the 23rd of October, the Van earthquake is 23 November, 23 December, 23 January, which means the third month is over, 105, 110th days of the earthquake. Over 100,000 population movements from here to here have been controlled under heavy winter conditions, providing shelter in healthy environments. The management of the Van earthquake is a difficult thing to do by writing two lines on paper like that or by asking three sentences out of a microphone in a hot environment, you have to live it, you have to know it, you have to be there. We were there as government, thank you, you were there as MPs, everyone was there. It's only a little unfair at this hour, with the least possible policy being done over the Van earthquake. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0188par0262	Mr. Secretary, we'll never ask questions in the heat again.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0189par0263	Mr. Secretary, thank you. Congressmans, I submit the 4th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Before voting for the entire proposal, Mr. Kamer asked for a young promise; he's not here.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0190par0266	He's hurt, he's gone.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0191par0267	Mr. President, we have a request for a correction.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0189par0268	Congressmans, the entire proposal will be a correction of the commission, and then... Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0191par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in line with the technical arrangement adopted in Article 2 of the proposal, the title of the proposal would be more appropriate in accordance with the Law on Public Finance and Order of debt. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0192par0273	Your motion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-07sit02spe0193par0274	We're aware of that, sir. Now, with the rendition proposed by the Commission, I submit the entire law to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Good luck, good luck. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision made, will discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, on Wednesday (February 8th 2012), at 13 p.m. on Wednesday (February 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
