tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Members of parliament, in accordance with the decision taken by the Presidential Court, I would like to call upon your grand delegation to stand before the saintly memory of the late Turkish Cypriot President Rauf Denktas. [[Respect has been held]] God rest his soul. Members of parliament, in the past week, we lost not only the Turkish Cypriots, but a very valuable son of the motherland and Turkish world, the founding leader of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the first President Rauf Denktas. Our pain is deep, our sadness is great. During every period of history, great leaders have appeared in the most difficult times of the nations, communities, and have earned their place in the glorious pages of history by doing their duty in the best possible way. The late Denktash is a national hero and a great Turkish leader who emerged during the most depressed period of the Turkish Cypriots. Rauf Denktaş is a courageous son of a country who signed a glorious resistance with a handful of Turkish Cypriot Turkish Cypriots and the heroic sons of the motherland during a period when the Greek Cypriots began to slaughter the Turkish Cypriots in inhuman attacks on the Turkish Cypriots, without saying small or large, in an attempt to wipe out the island and the world stage. He has maintained his national struggle with his friends, his national trial of Cyprus and Turkicism, which he believes and is deeply devoted to, his entire life, regardless of any difficulties or obstacles, without compromise, he has performed his honorable duty, leaving his glorious resistance and struggle as the greatest legacy to the Turkish Cypriots and the Turkish world. Members of parliament, the fire of freedom lit by the great statesman Denktas is also an important torch in the light of the Turkish world. From here I say that the heroic leader of the Turkish world, the country of independence of historical heritage and Turkish Cypriotism, is the greatest trust you've ever left us. As sons of a nation, Necip, the independent Turkish Republic of Cyprus will surely receive its rightful place and role in the history scene, and you will have the biggest share in it. With your mujahideen, your oratorship, your organizational ability to maneuver in international diplomacy, your patience, and most importantly, Baba Denktas, your wise grandfather, you will always live and live in our hearts. Some have passed a date. When we say, we will remember you as an insufferable defender of the history of the Turkish Cypriots, the struggle for resistance and independence. Even before your last breath, this place is an independent republic. Even though you say goodbye to the national cause of the Turkish Cypriots, your resistance and your determined personality, your ideas, your writings, will shed light on new generations throughout history, guide them, and forever be an inspiration to the hearts. Members of parliament, he was a son of the country who raised the flag to the sky in the Turkish Cypriot struggle for existence, and that flag will be waved with glory, and will be waved with glory in the sky of Cyprus forever. Bilge Denktaş, today is the day to meet thousands of mujahideen and martyrs whose names cannot be told, whose names are listed below; your head is high, your forehead white, like an eagle floating through the lonely cliffs of the Toros into Cyprus. May your place be in heaven, God rest her soul. Members of parliament, the Turkish world has lost another valuable son. One of the Kazakh Turks' migratory leaders, Erakhan Canaltay, has received the mercy of Hakkk (Hakk) at home, dedicated his 90 years of life to the struggle of the Kazakh-Kyrgyz Turks in the Altais and the organisation of the immigrant Kazakh Turks. He also remembers Canaltay with mercy and gratitude; we offer our condolences to the Turkish world, particularly Kazakhstan, East Turkistan and Kyrgyzistan, and we share their pain. Congressmans, we've also lost the people we've shared the pain with, the nation's sorrows, the nation's hard work on the national team and Turkish football. His contribution to the Turkish nation and Turkish football is purely Turkish-loving, and I also respectfully and gratefully salute the Grand Assembly of Kucukandonyadis, an example of Turkish youth. [[Applause]] Congressmans, the group's vice presidents have asked for a word. I'll promise you your place, in order of demand.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0002par0021	On the stand, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0001par0022	Mr. Şandir, as you know, according to the Civil Code 59...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0002par0023	Mr. President, today is a special day.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0001par0024	Due to the importance of the matter, here you are, Mr. Şandir. How many minutes did you settle?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0002par0026	Let's not waste time. Let's leave it to each other's discretion.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0001par0027	I'll give you five minutes each. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0002par0032	Dear President, dear lawmakers, today is a special day. I wish that all lawmakers would show this sensitivity, stop talking and listen to Mr. President, but you've made it so ordinary, I express my regrets. The honorable MPs, Rauf Denktas Hakk, have walked at the mercy of Hakk. In the name of the National Movement Party Group and its community, we ask the late Denktas to receive blessings from the great God. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. There's not enough words to describe it. In fact, today the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should have started a session on Denktas. We should have understood it, we should have explained it, and we should have taken his struggle here as a challenge to the world in some way, but we consider it an off-the-top event. I wish the Deputy Prime Minister would come up here and give a speech about it and the groups would talk for ten minutes. Therefore, we shouldn't have wasted these special days, these special opportunities, dear friends, because the Turkish nation or history doesn't raise the statesman easily. Mr. Rauf Denktaş, as you all know, was a state founder. In the 20th century, he was a great hero, a Turkish elder, a litigator, just like Ataturk. Like the late Rauf Denktas, who said the nation's sovereignty and future would save the nation's determination and decision, said the Great Ataturk, despite all negative conditions, sometimes even Turkey, is a Turk's son, who has made his commitment and has succeeded in delivering the Turkish presence on the island of Northern Cyprus or Cyprus to an independent state in at least 70 years of his life. Dear friends, it's not easy to build a state in this day and age. On his way to the London Conference in 1960, Foreign Minister Fatin Rüştüğ is late, I remember by mercy, at the same status in the established state of Cyprus, who cared very much about the establishment of a two-people state in equal political status, and who had taken Rauf Denktas as his adviser to build a constitution for the future state, but even that day Rauf Denktas, who would never give up his claim that Enosis, would never give up on them, save us only independence. He said one word: we will stand up, just like Ataturk. Ataturk's closest friends, who had been able to stand up in the Sivas Congress, asking for American legislature or British rule, but Ataturk insisted that if we were here today, we would be built as an independent state based on the Turkish nation of this state, as a nation based on the people of this land, as an independent state, but with the will and power of the nation, he has resisted, he has resisted, and if we are here today, that resistance is what we are. Rauf Denktas has walked to mercy, but he has left us a trust. This relic, Mr. President, was beautifully expressed by the establishment of the independent Turkish Republic of Cyprus... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0003par0039	Here you go, Mr. Chancer. Please collect your words.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0002par0040	This is a duty binding on Us, a duty binding on Us. For the past three years, the government has been trying to get results in negotiations between communities with persistent and good intentions, but it turns out it can't be achieved. When many people in this country accused Denktas of blocking Turkey, blocking Turkey on the road to the European Union, but today, Mr. Prime Minister, I believe, all the people who ruled Turkey came to the line of Rauf Denktas. There will be no results either, and three months later, they will force Turkey into a European Union process headed by the Greek Cypriot Administration. In the last breath of the late Denktas, which Mr. Denktas expressed as a will, this is an independent republic, Christofias. In a sense, we must take it upon ourselves as an obligation to honor, and we must do what is necessary. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I mentioned in the beginning, we cannot really afford to speak of the late Denktas, nor can we speak. Our prayers to him... now is the time to pray. He got the successful heroes, got the ones he loved. And left behind a community, a nation, and, hopefully, a state to be recognized by the world. I remember him with mercy, and I thank him with thanks, and I ask patience for those who remain behind. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0004par0045	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0005par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is a really important and special day. A day when an important statesman, at the same time a politician, was buried, and this burial ceremony was attended by our President, Prime Minister, Parliament Speaker, senior representatives, attend, participate, are there now. Again, here in Parliament today, on behalf of our group, a friend of ours will speak off the agenda. Likewise, our Deputy Prime Minister will address you here as an off-the-top response. Rauf Denktash, one of the most important figures in our Cyprus case, is walking into the mercy of Hakkk. I ask the deceased for mercy, condolences, and patience for his loved ones. On 27 November 1948, at the first rally organised by the Turkish Cypriots, the deceased Denktash, who had spoken with Dr. Fazil Küçük, was a man who devoted his life to Turkish Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots. From the beginning, he was a man of large movement, who was only pro-resolved by compromise, who had a strong interest in solving problems, so much so that at the beginning of his first feeling, the two important names of the Turkish Cypriot Congregation, Faiz Kaymak and Dr. Fazil Little, were to take the role of a finder of the interests of society. On 1 August 1958, he founded the Turkish Resistance with his friends and laid the first stone leading to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. As you know, when the Greeks attacked the Turkish villages in 1958, the Turks protested these events, before the Treaty of Zurich and London, Dr. Fazil Küçük and Rauf Denktaş went to Ankara to meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs Fatin Rüştügütü. In this meeting, Denktaş voiced his proposal to send Turkish soldiers to the island, composing more or less today's structure. The Treatys of Zurich and London in 1959 and 1960 have a share of work that will never be forgotten in the preparation of the Constitution of the Republic of Cyprus. On 16 August 1960, when the 650 Turkish regiment set foot in the port of Magosa, the deceased Denktash was president of the Turkish Community Assembly. After the events of 1963, Denktaş arrived in Ankara for talks. Having completed their contact, Denktash took a boat to Cyprus and began to organize Turkish resistance. On February 13, 1975, the declaration of the Turkish Cypriot State of Federa was the first prize of its glorious struggle. The deceased was elected President of the State in the first general elections held under the Constitution in 1976, and again served as President of the State for the second time in 81. On November 15, 1983, the declaration of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus was the second most prize of its struggle. After this blessed announcement, he was re-elected president. On April 24, 2005, he handed the mission over to Mehmet Ali Talat. The deceased Denktash was an important figure in his political life as well as in his writer's identity. Denktas also has a serious law over a generation of young people. It would be a gift that the deceased's fighting identity and a genuine photograph of his struggle life will be taken and passed on to the younger generations. Dear friends, on the night of January 8th, we lost the deceased Denktas, due to the diagnosis of organ failure. As for every man who has passed away, he has tasted death, but We remember him with a good remembrance, and he will remain in his works forever. Again, on behalf of our group, the deceased Denktas is asking for mercy from Cenibhak, and I say, "I am sorry for the loss of our nation."
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0006par0060	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0007par0063	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I am not going to make a routine speech today, not my intention, but today I will speak of Rauf Denktash and Cyprus with your permission, and I will speak of the memories of a little girl. We all have a home, dear friends. Actually, our home is our childhood, our childhood. From the north of this country to the south, east to west, we all actually carry the legend in our genes, in this country and in our childhood. As far as this land, believe me, the other side of the water is actually ours; the smell, the texture, the other side of our water, a little bit of us. I'll tell you a little bit about the south: geranium-smelling jasmine, jasmine-smelling childhoods of orange blossom and basil-scented childhoods of the South... there was Radio Flag of Cyprus back then. He used to make our childhood cheery sounds of Radio Flag. In those days of pain and resistance, those were the days when the EOKA-B was out hunting in villages, in the mountains, in the name of the Greek junta. We used to listen to his whiny voice from the Arab and Greek radio with a childish embrace. We used to embrace that childish joy and love that song the most, and we always wanted to hear the gay sound of that song. A young man named Raif Denktas was cut off from us one step away from the sweet, Arabic voice, but from us, across the water, but from us, from somewhere, he would come to us and he would say, ▪ Is Cyprus an island, or is it a part of heaven? /The beautiful daughter of Cyprus, her cheeks are red /Akdeniz's star/ Oh Cyprus, my Cyprus! As we grew older, we realized that the star of the Mediterranean was the days in Cyprus when you lost everything in the night and everything in the day. There is a great Turk. He assembled us in those days. He was the father of Raif. It was then. There was a big man who resisted the enemy. They called him Toros. He was a big man like Toros and the Fivefinger Mountains, but he was sweet, sympathetic, human, father or father, he was like our father, he was like our father to his children. And we would hear him say, "Let it not be like Girit, Cyprus." Maybe it would have meant a little more to us if they had suffered so much that they had been ripped from the other side of the water. We listened very carefully. Then one day he added to Mersin, and the military trains that moved toward the port came, and the days that smelled of boots came at the station. Mehmetdik Mehmeti followed the nights of the blackout of light bulbs wrapped in carbon paper that were completely familiar that day. Even when we were late with the TRT package broadcasts, there was Karason everywhere, that big Turk Toros everywhere. May they rest in peace and in the light. This great Turk has always resisted. Maybe a year and a half of being without a mother, maybe later, he resisted the resistance of losing more than one child. It was the only strength that he could resist the evils that man had done to man that he had lived and seen. He fought back. This is how imperialism has given its people the honor of forming a state after supporting mass graves, blood, fire, migration, exile, and tears. At first it belonged to that poor land without even his knowledge, and it caused the land to reveal itself, to declare itself, to rebel, to reject a cardboard identity, to announce its own voice to the world, to fight this terrible struggle and negotiate man, just like that great Turk, who never returned to the city he was born in, who followed his example and followed him. What about this great Turk, who, at the end of many sufferings and deaths, has never lost his ability to rejoice over beauty, to reconnect with that symbolic camera, and to be reborn in every negotiation, and to be angry at the scoundrels who stab him in the back? After all the pain, he never, ever betrayed his people, who were forced to become homeless and left alone, as if they had been excommunicated. He was always with him, always on the side of independent and free Cyprus. The supreme executioners gave an order, didn't listen. He gave another order, he wouldn't listen. The rulers left him alone, and tried to make him hungry and thirsty, and did not give up. He has denied the right of some international texts, no matter what its name, to make the rules, the right to citizenship, the right to life, the right to exist, to those who can only buy, to those who are rich, to those who are powerful, to those who take over the sovereigns, to make the rest invisible. Thanks to him, there's an island there, not far away. There are people there who call this land their homeland, the Turkish Cypriot people. First they called it the "cemaat," then they called it the "total," but now the Turkish people of Cyprus, the Turkish nation of Cyprus, were created from nothing. In the name of its land, we call it the native land. They're from us, but don't, don't you ever, ever, ever tell them that if it wasn't for me, you'd die of poverty and hunger. Please don't say such hurtful, poisonous things to them. They are the steadfast and authentic representatives of an honorable people. From now on, it's not just a people you're going to hurt, it's not just a people you're going to hurt, and it's the bones of that great Turk. I'm sure Rauf Denktas, like the biggest Turk to ask, "When is your birthday?" I'm sure he'd say, "What day is your birthday?" July 20, and if someone tried to ban it, we'd celebrate it for someone, even though it's a day of mourning. The great Turk we buried today believed and said that even for the masters of power in the world and on the mainland, history is destructive, destructive, changeable. When these wicked winds change one day, when the opposite happens, those who shoot him in the back will feel regretful. Years go by, years go by, it turns out he's right. Those who say it's over, but are lined up next to his grave today think again, but believe me, that's something. Last word, worthy lawmakers: Let the life of Rauf Denktas, his resistance, his memory be light to us and to the oppressed, to the prisoners, to those who suffer, to those who devote their lives to the struggle for sovereignty and existence of the Turkish Cypriot people and who mark our history with faith in the last Turkish state that he built even in his last breath. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0008par0076	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0009par0079	Mr. President, as the Party of Peace and Democracy Group, we ask for God's mercy to former President Rauf Denktas, the founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, his family, his relatives, the people of Cyprus. We know very well that when a 60-year period is marked, history always evaluates the pros and cons, the communities, the leaders, all of them. But we want to make it clear that when we discuss Cyprus from now on, we will continue to pronounce the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus here with these 60-year-old policies because it is impossible to fit a term here for five minutes, especially on a day like this. Of course, Enosisi is also a solution to megalo integration wills. History will always lead us before the 1960s when we talk about the European Union processes, the United States processes, the British games, and the world that has changed until today, the new days after the crisis, when we talk about everything. I hope, we hope, and we believe that one day the people of Cyprus will freely establish their will, their democracy, their democratic constitution, to be free, to live equally and freely, and to live freely in the land of their birth. Because on the same day, Fenerbahçe and the captain of the national team, Lefter Küçükandonyadis, died in a note of history. Our Greek citizen was born in Büyükada, and all the colors sent him on his final journey to the Great Land. It's a fact, a fact of this geography, a fact of history, the truth of what we've been through. But there is another fact, Mr. Denktas was born in Baf, and today borders, geographys are shaped differently, boundaries are drawn differently, there are different developments. Finally, I believe we will discuss this in the process of much more important developments in Cyprus. So we ask God for mercy again. I hope, and we believe that one day in the House, we will discuss these matters freely, at a much more comfortable time, among ourselves. Nevertheless, we call his family, his relatives, the people of Cyprus, our condolences.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0010par0086	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first statement is from Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ, who asked for a statement on the death of Rauf Denktas, the founder of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0011par0094	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group for the death of Rauf Denktas, the Bani of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I salute you all. We're seeing a historical figure today. In a historical sense, the fight against Cyprus refers to the life of Denktas. Denktas was an important leader who had been on stage for sixty years. A lifetime of struggles, sufferings, sufferings, sorrows. Being committed to a case requires a lifetime of pursuing it. In 1571, Cyprus, which joined Ottoman territory by Captain İnderya Piale Pasha, faced the situation of getting out of our hands by the Greek extremities from the 1950s. Turkey's Greek Cypriot garantism, signed on 11 February 1960 by late Prime Minister Adnan Menderes and late Foreign Minister Fatin Rügütü Rügütü, was the first step towards independence for Turkish Cypriots. The flag of this future struggle was first mentioned by the late Dr. Fadıl Minor, then the late Rauf Denktash, established in the constellations with the Turkish Resistance. Dr. Fadıl Minor and Rauf Denktash blocked Greece's claim in their fight against Athens politics on Cyprus's becoming Greek island. Denktaş, as an invitation to Operation Peace of Cyprus in 1974, has led to the intervention of the Republic of Turkey. On that day, we celebrate and cherish the invitation of the Turkish Cypriots, one of our late prime ministers, Bjelt Ecevit and Necmettin Erbakan. Although its name is identified with Turkish Cypriotism, it would be a little unfair to consider and limit Rauf Denktas (Rauf) to the island of Cyprus. Denktash was a man who had taken the issues of the Turkish Cypriot and the issues of the Turkish Cypriot to trial, giving him the right to do so, both at the front and in the political field. Denktas was a voice that cried out to the world the truth of the Turkish world, as did Jesus Joseph Alptekin and Baymirza Hayit, Mustafa Cemil Crimeaoğlu in Crimea, Sadik Ahmet in West Tracia, Azerbaijan. Nejat Koçak, Cevher Dudayev in Chechnya, Aliya Izetbegovic in Bosnia. Denktaş could have lived in prosperity and prosperity as a lawyer who had studied in England if he wanted to, but he did not, although he was banned from entering Cyprus, he tried to sneak into Cyprus and was arrested but did not give up. Today the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is the child of this struggle. If there is still a community in Cyprus that resists Enosis, it is the result of the struggle launched by two important leaders, Little and Denktas, and the efforts of hundreds of mujahideen. Denktas was right about the Cyprus struggle. During the struggle, he acted like a true leader and hero, so he deserved to put his name in history. The Turks lost their winnings on the battlefield over the years behind a desk. Rauf Denktash, seen as an uncompromising political negotiator, appeared to be stubborn, but played an important role in breaking the tradition of the Turks who lost behind the desk. The idea of not losing what he won at the front desk and independence was his choice. In his life, prime ministers of Cyprus, presidents of the United Nations, have aged representatives of the United Nations. The name "Danktas" was a leverage in every international meeting for the future of Turkish Cypriots. Periods of nations raise flags, they always walk ahead, they resist all kinds of slanders, attacks, they represent a country, a case, a nation. Denktaş was always such a leading leader, and today his body is walking before us, and we will remember him with grace and mercy. In history, some people's shadows are great themselves. Denktaş was a person who was bigger than his shadow. Denktas was a man who triumphed over his defeats. He was a man who did not allow the borders of the Turkish Empire to disappear. He is the last representative of the Turkish will to form a state in the 20th century. He was the leader of the Turkish Cypriot and Turkey was the leader. If there is a Turkish trial in Cyprus today -- which there is -- we owe it to Rauf Denktas. Like any leader, history will judge him and one day he will be judged objectively. In his political struggle, there was no room for the word "hospitability." People who can stand up when everyone's in despair are leaders. In the history of the world, those who resist will win, and Rauf Denktas will resist and win. We know him not only as a Cypriot politician, but as a powerful, intelligent lawyer, a writer and a thinker. His spirit will appear in every photo of Cyprus taken today with a camera he didn't drop. Dr. The fight with Fazil Küçük and the ongoing Rauf Denktaş will not be in vain, as long as the Republic of Turkey is moving forward with its democracy, as long as it expands its economy in its region and in the world... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...as long as he's walking safely towards becoming a powerful state, the world will surely recognize the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus one day and the day will come when he will recognize it. ▪ Heroism means a lonely rise, Nor is it like the stars that are extinguished. That would require a death sentence, Don't ever come back after being thrown out. Now, I call to mind the late Rauf Denktas, whose beloved casemate Dr. Fazil, who is with the small and martyred mujahideen, in this verse, his soul, the light, and the paradise of his place, from the Great Creator. I pay my respects. God be with you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0012par0114	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. In the name of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc will respond to non-responsive speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0013par0118	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I'd like to thank our dear friend Selçuk Özdağ, who spoke out of the agenda for the death of Mr Rauf Denktas, the founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and the members of all parties. Pain is the pain of all of us. Of course, there are some very nice words for Mr. Denktas. My friends who expressed them carried out a mission. I pray for God's mercy to the late Denktas. My condolences to our relatives in Northern Cyprus, our people in Asia Minor, our nation, the entire Islamic world and the Turkish world. May he rest in heaven. Dear friends, this is the hour of the final journey of the late Rauf Denktas. Of course, all the people of Cyprus have willingly attended the ceremonies that have been going on since morning. Mr. Abdullah Gul of Turkey, Mr. Cemil Cicek of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan of our Prime Minister, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu of our main opposition party leader, Mr. President of the Nationalist Movement Party. In addition, our Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, Minister of the European Union and Minister of Chief Negotiator Egemen Bagis, Minister of Family and Social Policy Fatma Şahin, Minister of National Defence Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of Finance Mehmet Simsek attended. President of Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Mr. Mevlüt Sergeantoglu, Chief of Staff General Necdet Special, Commander of the Land Forces General Hayri Kıvrıkoğlu, Secretary General of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, Mr. Ekmeleddin İhsanoglu attended. Also, the former presidents of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Deniz Baykal, Mr. Hikmet Cetin, Mr. Altan Öymen, attended. Along with Mr. Bahçeli, the chairman of the National Movement Party, our fellow MPs, our group's presidents, joined. Democratic Party President Mr. Namik Kemal Zeybek, Democratic Left Party President Innocent Türker, EC PARTI Vice President Omar Çelik, the wives of the late Prime Minister Bkent Ecevit, Mr. Rahsan Ecevit, Saadet Party leader Mustafa Kamalak, the leader of the Grand Union Party, Mr. Mustafa Destic attended, and, without a doubt, many of our friends, Mr. Tuğrul Türkesh and Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh. At the same time, Mr. Rifat Citadelicoglu, the president of the TOBBB, the valued representatives of private sector institutions, occupational institutions, also attended the funeral, representing all of us. Also at the ceremony, MPs from Crimean Tatar Milli Parliament Speaker Mustafa Cemiloglu, Democratic Turkish Party of Kosovo MPs Enis Kervan, Muferra Sinik, Democratic Party of Kosovo Vice President Rifat Krasnic, Bulgarian Party of Rights and Freedoms MPs Remzi Osman, Rushen Reza, Necmi Ali, Minister of Education of Afghanistan, Minister for the Foreign Affairs of Qatar, Macedonian State Minister Didar Nezir, President of the Macedonian Union Movement President and MP Erdoğan Sarac, Minister Ahmet Metütümüncine, Deputy Sheriff of the Bulgarian Rights and Freedoms, many of the Peoples of the Union, many of Turkey, and many of the Turkish Parliaments, have attended the funerals of the Turkish Parliament. Dear friends, I agree with the fine words of our friends regarding Mr. Rauf Denktas. First of all, he was a patriot, a leader who cared for his land, his land, his nation. His people were in the square today for the last time as a single body, showing great loyalty to him. I'm sure the island of Cyprus has never seen such a great flood of love. That's what leaders in history are called, not only when they live and are capable, but always with respect. Rauf Denktaş is such a leader. He is a history-stamped leader in his time of struggle. His life with the struggle began the day he lost his mother at the age of one and a half, until he gave up his last breath. Rauf Denktash was the voice of the oppressed society that emerged from a society that was being destroyed by pressure and assimilation policies. The prosecutor's office put aside its robe and returned to its people, as it were, to announce to the world the oppression and persecution of the Greeks in Cyprus. For his people's just cause, he was sometimes found as a resistor, sometimes a diplomat, who fought hard in the international arena, sometimes a professional politician. Exiles, bans, prison sentences, guns pointed at him, could not silence his voice, because he was the voice of his people. In the end, like every righteous demand, that voice was met, and the Turkish Cypriot people were reunited with their state. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, founded in 1983, left 29 years behind, despite all unjust embargoes, today, despite the entire world. Rauf Denktas, who devoted his entire life to the struggle for freedom and equality of his people, has been the hope of all the oppressed nations in the world, because he was a symbol of resisting, fighting, and being a litigator. With those qualities, a whole world looks up to him with respect. Rauf Denktas is a different place in our country and in our nation. Our nation sees him as a part of himself, knowing the Turkish Cypriots as their own sons, equating their struggle for freedom and independence with their own struggle for wealth. Rauf Denktaş wrote an epic existence in the impossible. His main goal was to establish and keep the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus alive. He finally made it. He had a colorful personality as well as a government man. He was a man of the people with a sense of humor, a public presence near the public. He was a grieving father who loved his wife, his family, and buried his three children with his own hands. He was a professional photographer enough to open exhibitions. At last, he left us with a pleasant sound under this dome. Mr. President, I have looked at the list of heads of state, presidents who spoke on the General Assembly of Turkey, visiting our Grand National Assembly, honoring our nearly 50 heads of state and parliament, as Presidents of Kyrgyztan President Almazbek Atambayev, and speaking here. Among them was the late Turkish Cypriot President Rauf Denktash, who came to our General Assembly and explained the Cyprus case. They visited our parliament in 1993, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2001, 2003, and 2004, making speeches to the General Assembly. During my presidency, he had the opportunity to address the General Assembly twice. Then he couldn't come to our General Assembly, and he also left the presidency from 2005. I took out the transcripts of his speeches at the General Assembly, and I'm not going to repeat them, but it was Rauf Denktas, the late Rauf, who tested the Cyprus case from the beginning to this day, in the best possible way, with his speech of sufferings, sufferings, struggles. So I think it would be very helpful if our friends could take them off the transcripts and read them and examine them by giving them the dates of their talks at the General Assembly. The first is a talk he made on Thursday (March 6, 2003), and the other is a speech he made on April 15, 2004 -- a year in a row. In particular, the first speech is prior to the Annan Plan, and the other is the talk he made in Turkey, ten days before the Annan Plan. I'd like to read just one paragraph from this, and I'd like to put an end to my commitment to the decisions made on Cyprus in our Turkish Parliament for the Great Nation. The Cyprus issue has occupied your Grand Assembly at various times. Mr. Denktas says that the vital decisions regarding Cyprus have come out of your Supreme Assembly, the glorious Operation Peace, the Parliament's decision and the will of the nation. For the state of the Cyprus issue, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has made decisions that guide us, determine the national line, highlighting the Turkish Nation's parameters on Cyprus. For decades, we have been guarding the border with our people and Mujahideen for 30 years, along with the Turkish Armed Forces, who have saved us from absolute destruction in Cyprus as we know it, at the cost of martyrs. For years at the desk, we have maintained our collective defence, which we have accepted as a national defense, based on the contribution and guidance of the Turkish governments, as well as the principles approved by this Supreme Assembly. As you know, the Turkish Grand National Assembly's decision on this issue dates back to 1955. The recent decisions, taken from 1997, 1999 and 6 March 2003, gave us strength and guidance in the talks. With your high permission, I read your decision in Parliament, which was the last of these decisions, dated 6 March 2003, unanimous:,, Turkey again announces to the world the fact that the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Turkish Nation are in full unity and unity in this national case, referring to decisions made by the Grand National Assembly on January 21, 1997 and July 15, 1999. I think our friends, who particularly desire the entire conversation, can download it from the transcripts. Due to the struggle of the late Rauf Denktas, I once again bow before the memory of the saint, declaring that we will take care of the relic he left as the Republic of Turkey forever. I offer my condolences to God's mercy, to his grieving wife, to his children, to the Turkish Cypriot people and to our nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0014par0136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Ankara MP Levent Gökyük, who wants to talk about Ankara's problems. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0015par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Today I honor the founding President Rauf Denktas of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, whom we have sent on his final journey. Rauf Denktas' struggle should set an example for all politicians. God rest his soul. Congressmans, I have been promised to express Ankara's problems to you today. I was going to tell you about Ankara's unpredictable subway, the increasing air pollution, the hostile position of the Metropolitan Municipality against Republican People's Party municipalities and the non-voting neighborhoods, the fact that the Ankara Mayor is the most important problem of Ankara's population on Friday. Dear lawmakers, when I received word last Friday that the Dikmen Valley would be destroyed by riot forces, I went to the scene and left what I'm about to tell you at your mercy, your human values and your consciences. Around 600 households, 1,200 people, have lived here since the 1970s. The people who make up the poor and the workers struggle to survive with their hard work and their hard work. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has been trying to get these people out of here for years, imposed conditions they can't stand. The mayor recommends that they sell lemons to the public and make money, thus asking them to pay the municipality. The people of Dikmen Valley favour a fair and bearable solution, but they also oppose the plundering and victimization of their dwellings for the sake of the runt under the name of the urban transformation. Dear MPs, the people of Dikmen Valley are a people who feel the coldness of the air you feel outside the House 4-5 degrees colder than in Ankara. When we go to Dikmen Valley, in my meeting with police and city officials and other authorities, let us not victimize people in this cold weather, but give them three or four days. I can find a place for these people. I gave them the solution. Meanwhile, all of a sudden, the panzers sprayed me with water, and the atmosphere became largely tense. Again, we continued our efforts to find a solution to the problem without losing our coolness. The municipal officials met with Melih Gökçek, and when he found out that I was there, he made a decisive decision to continue the destruction. That's when I had a meeting with our Home Secretary, and I gave them the situation. I've stated that I can solve the problem once it's been given three days, humanly and conscientiously. Our Minister has also welcomed and stopped the destruction. I'd like to thank him from here. On his television show the next day, Mr. Gökçek made it clear that we were looking for him, but I wasn't given credit, that the Home Secretary had stepped in, that he didn't know the situation, and that the Home Secretary had stopped the destruction. My dear friends, my dear fellow AK PARTY with a conscience, did we not feel those pain in our hearts when we helped Somalia? In Ankara, in the face of our noses, what conscience, what reason can hand people over to the cold in winter in the snow? But she is the only one, and she is the only one. Melik Gökçek, I called him to make amends, but he says: "We didn't give him face." My dear friends, I called to see if there was any human value left in her while I was searching for Melih Gökçek, and I also called to see if there was any human value left in their conscience, but if Mr. Home Minister hadn't stepped in, these people would have stayed out today. Unfortunately, this sad event occurred. These people eventually left their homes today and destroyed their homes with their own hands, setting up a tent in Ankara's frost at minus 15 degrees last night. Melih Gökçek slept in his warm bed yesterday, but he did not hear the cries of three-year-old Eyup, three-year-old Oya Τ, nine-year-old Ayyup, who spent the night trembling in the tent, but did not witness the desperation of the disabled Mahmoud, thirty-year-old, and did not feel the pain of the parents, but he lay in his warm bed. My dear friends, my question is, do our AKP MP friends and ministers approve of leaving people in the cold in the snow and winter? This threat continues now on the people of Dikmen Valley, and Melih declares that he will destroy the Valley of Skydikmen, and that he will destroy it in a few days. I invite you all to be responsible. The responsibility is not only on opposition MPs, but if we all have our share of human values and conscientious values, we must stop these destructions.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0016par0152	Mr. Sky, please complete your statement. I've extended the duration of Mr. Özdağ. Here, I'll extend it for two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0015par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise to draw attention to this problem, and I salute all of you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0016par0157	Thank you, Mr. Sky. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kashat MP Reşat True, who wants to talk about the economic situation of the consumer in the use of bank cards and the problems that this situation will cause. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0017par0162	Mr. President, I've asked Mr. President about the economic situation and the problems of the consumer in the use of bank cards, but as you know, one of the major leaders of the Turkish world today has received the mercy of Rauf Denktas Hakkk, and I'd like to talk to you about it, Mr. President's tolerance. Members of parliament, I ask Allah's mercy on the First President Rauf Denktas of the Turkish Cypriot state of Northern Cyprus. He was a great man, a great hero. During each period of his life, as the speakers have just expressed, he is dedicated to the Turkish cause and at every point he has struggled to put his life on the line. From 7 November 1948, Fazil, who was one of the first Turkish Cypriots to hold a rally, went on the stand and spoke very excitedly and started his work at the point of warning the Turkish Cypriots and giving very important messages throughout the world. Rauf Denktas was the name that led the Turkish Cypriots' resistance against the fight against EOKB, which had a terrorist figure in 1955. In 1958, this heroic man founded the Turkish Resistance. After establishing the Turkish Resistance, we see together that at the point of its organization, it had done extensive work all over the island, and that it had made great sacrifices, from those times and later memories. In 1958, when the Greek terrorists attacked Turkish villages, he resisted them, and after that, he willingly announced the deployment of Turkish soldiers to Adaya all over the world. In 1963, he also organized Turkish resistance in Cyprus and initiated its ownership of its people. After being declared an unwanted man by Makarios in 1964, he was put into restraint at the point of entering Cyprus, but again, in various ways, he did not abandon the Turkish Cypriots, went to Cyprus, fought valiantly in the beautyland, elsewhere, and never left the Turkish Cypriots. We see together that even though he was driven off the island, he never stopped fighting even outside the island. Again, Denktaş was with the Turkish Cypriots during the period following Operation Peace in 1974, becoming their protector. The heroic man named Toros had once again fought bravely in the form of a Kurdistann. On February 13, 1975, after the declaration of the Turkish Cypriot federate state of Cyprus, the late Denktash, who declared the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in 1983, served as president from 1985 to 2005 indefinitely. He did not willingly run for office on April 17, 2005, but he is a true patriot, a courageous hero. Our presence on the island has always been very important for the future of Turkey and the Turkish nation. In the last 60 years, he's been a dedicated litigator of his people. He is not only the leader of Cyprus, he is also the leader of Turkey's Turkish world. He's a bigger man than any title he's ever had. Denktaş gave a similar challenge to the ancient Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Denktas, how could Kurdistan attack that Great Wall alone with those 40 men... ▪ Who would have thought that the Kurdistand boned him, He wasn't a person, he was a state. It was a flag, it was a country, It was red blood from head to toe. It's Denktas that fits the same stanza. This great man has already taken his place in the noble pages of history. May his place be in heaven. But let not God leave anyone without flags, without sovereignty, without a state. It should be an earring for all of us. See, in 2004, we were part of that campaign with our chairman, Dr. State Gardeny, regarding the Annan Plan, about the campaign to no Annan Plan. In that campaign, we stayed in Cyprus for about a week, offering them our description of what the Annan Plan meant by the Turkish Cypriots, and trying to explain the Annan Plan in a real way. During that visit, when we went to the Presidential Mansion, I even remember how Mr. Denktas' eyes glowed when he saw us, and how he shined even now, and how he cried at the rally held the day before the vote of the Annan Plan, which was held the day before the day before the vote of Nicosia, at that great rally, how he cried out at that great rally. There were Turkish flags, and there were flags of the Turkish Cypriot state, and there were flags of the Turkish Cypriot state. Under those great flags, he was telling the world of Turkish power...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0018par0183	Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0017par0184	...but just a few miles away, there were only European Union flags at the rally held by Mehmet Ali Talat. This is a clear indication of the struggle of the great man Rauf Denktas. May his place be in heaven. He says the Turkish nation will never forget him, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0018par0187	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Özensoy, is this relevant?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0019par0189	Yes, Mr. President, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0018par0190	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0019par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. When I was the late President of Denktas, I had the opportunity to stay in Nicosia for a year. Mr. Denktaş was a president who had a very different profile of a very different leader. I had the opportunity to see him alone shopping in the market with his Sunday bag, chatting with everyone, walking from the mosque house to the teravio prayer in a Ramadan, talking with the citizens at the mosque. Really, such leaders are rare. Everyone knows they took a picture of the citizen with a camera and gave it to them as a gift. The late Mr. Denktash will take his place among the memorable in Turkish history. I pray for God's mercy. My condolences to the entire Turkish nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0020par0198	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. We're going on the agenda. Members of Parliament, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Mr. Taner Yildiz has asked questions from the agenda of the agenda, including 1, 136, 147, 162, 175, 178, 186, 1971, 1982, 207, 232, 259, 286, 286, 305, 311, 322, 327, 403, 408, 410, 414, 416, 418, 447, 449, 458, 464, 474, 521, 525, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, and 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 494, 494, 494, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 494, 494, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, and 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, and 494, 594, 494, 494, 594, 594, 594, 594, 594, 494, I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate and determine the problems of hundreds of thousands of drivers who operate in our country from passenger transport to the international transport sector, and the conditions of their labour and economic crisis, we demand and demand that a parliamentary research be done under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Court. In our country where traffic accidents and bad news don't come off the agenda, drivers are one of the most important trade groups we've ever trusted with our property. Taxi drivers, truck drivers, tourist drivers, bus drivers, ambulance drivers, bus companies, hundreds of thousands of drivers, millions of families, in crisis situations without social security, facing death, a difficult task. There are huge risks in international transportation, thousands of people in Iraq, Europe, away from their families for weeks; drivers on the road, workers in the business world, factories, mines, dams, forests, all areas of life. There are 18,000 taxi drivers in Istanbul alone. They're the ones who lost the most after the security forces. They're in the midst of pirate cabs, unfair competition, taxes, punishments. Cabbies in big cities have the same problems. Of the 140 occupational groups, the highest casualties are taxi drivers, daily hours, leisure practices in rental taxis, stop problems, service vehicles, vans' phone problems, lack of control, fights that are now pushing a new need for order. What else can be done for safety other than the camera system? What should local governments, central management, do between the driver's shop and the citizen's? What has been going on with the driver's trades on international roads, accidents, investigations, seizure of vehicles, extortion in Iraq, illegal taxes, killings, injustices? Why is there no regular coordination between car drivers, drivers' rooms, occupational organizations, law enforcement ministries, and why is it so messy and so responsible? Is it necessary to pay heavy taxes on commercial transportation purchases? Can't imports be granted tax exemption for once? "There are problems with the absence of a C2 document required for truck drivers to carry cargo abroad in 1973-1988 trucks, with 3,579 trucks not allowed abroad. The driver's trade is useful in opening a parliamentary research and establishing a "research commission" for finding solutions, considering the legal and practical problems of the driver's business. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems caused by the election and parties' regime and to determine the necessary arrangements, we would like to ask that the Constitution be opened under Article 98, Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution be opened. Turkey's electoral system was formed after September 12th military coup. Political parties, election logs, laws and constitutional regulations have blocked fair representation of the public. In 1983 and later years, political authorities protected the election and treasure dams that served their purpose. At parties, the presidents can't change, nor can the staff. The leader's sultan continues. Too old, too young, too few men, too few women. Inside-the-party democracy doesn't apply to member law. Candidates are determined by central roll call and transfer rather than pre-election. Conventions, meetings, they're just meetings that the presidents are talking about. No argument, no turnout, no criticism, no production. Party organisations are getting lazy, setting everything up. As a result, he becomes stationary, formal rhetorical, tabu, lazy. Projects don't come out, change gets cut off. Party regulations prevent competing candidates, not a democratic race. Legal regulations are full of contradictions. The principle in the 1961 Constitution also exists in our constitution today: "Political parties are essential elements of democratic life" (Made 68). However, freedom of thought and organisation is limited, tied to punishments, parties closed, and a quiet society is requested. It is also necessary for political parties to provide adequate financial assistance and proper financial assistance. (Md. 68). Parties defending work, different parts and oppressed peoples are being prevented from receiving treasury assistance, and parties supported by international capital are being strengthened. It is also the Constitution's obligation that political parties abide by this principle in their internal order. ▪ Political parties' activities, internal arrangements and works are in line with the principles of democracy," he told SETimes. Also: Aside from the constitution, the way political parties operate more rational, participatory, and effective is that democracy within the party works well. Unfortunately, in-party democracy doesn't work. Ten per cent of the elections are blocked by the public's free selection of its candidates, with less and more parliamentary elections going on. Even parties with groups in parliament are being prevented from receiving help, including seven per cent dams for Treasury assistance. The closing of the party becomes an integral part of the nominee ban legislation. If the same parties don't change, why is it the electoral system, the laws and antidemocratic legislation in Turkey? If you are called "The Unregistered Nation of Command," you must open the way for fair representation. To overcome the problems in our country that have been happening in our country and which have become increasingly "do not manage" crisis at the centre, the fulfillment of the needs of democratic society in modern democratic democracies must be lifted. That's why... The opening of parliamentary research would be helpful to establish a Research Commission for identifying problems and solution proposals. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand a parliamentary study of energy policies, which are frequently discussed in our country, which are dependent on the externality of energy and security, for the impact of the environment, under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution. Energy is at the head of the riveting elements of the countries' social and economic development. Energy is one of the most important entries in our daily life and production. Therefore, those who take over the country and the energy sector are obliged to offer enough, quality, continuous, low cost and in harmony with the environment, the energy that society and the economy need. They also have to diversify these resources in terms of the country's energy supply security. In our country, it is beneficial to adopt a policy that determines all primary domestic and renewable energy sources, which aims to be introduced to consumption (with regard to environmental conditions), which monitors the ability to diversify energy resources and resource countries, minimises the problems of external dependence with domestic measures and strategies. The quality, cheap, adequate and environmental supply of energy is on the agenda of all the countries of the world. In our country, there has been no long-term policy on sustainable development and energy. Our country, which aims to capture modern civilizations and embraces sustainable development and growth policies, has to act on the right data, prioritize the conditions in the country, prioritizing local and renewable resources, creating an energy strategy that optimizes technological-economic-social environmental factors, policy and energy supply-tasking balance. Our country provides about a quarter of its total energy consumption with imports, as well as what remains of its own resources. Energy deficits and outside dependency have exceeded $50 billion. Our country is a country with a wide range of primary energy sources. Our country has endless resource potentials, such as substructure, lignite, boron, crude oil, natural gas, uranium, and thorium, and hydroelectric, geothermal, solar, wind, wave energy. As long as our rich country has no domestic production, "passion energy" policies increase the energy deficit every day, the approach to being an external dependency and a bridge between the east and west. The design of companies working in the natural gas market has resulted in the dangers of freezing the economy in the winter 2009, with several increases to natural gas, oil and electricity in 2008, as a result of not developing a healthy policy on energy production, fugitives, use. Our country was put at risk by using oil pipelines from Iran, Baku-Ceyhan or Kerkuk, the vast majority of its energy by focusing on imported energy. It hasn't been calculated that one day these valves could be closed. While the government is developing external dependence with imported energy, it is also implementing a transitional geography policy instead of "renewable energy sources." On the other hand, it is being applied to nuclear power plants to cover its energy deficit. However, the share of nuclear power plants in Turkey does not exceed 2% in energy production. In response to environmentalist sensitivity, the Prime Minister says, "I'm the worst of environmentalists," but in many places in Sinop, Mersin, Storm Valley, Şırnak and Allione, he threatens nuclear and coal-based power plant rights and environments. The historic sites, such as the Ilisu dam and the historic Hasankeyf, the Cizre dam, the Alo Dino fortress, the ruins of the Nuts, the Tayran mosque, Timur Paws, the Assyrian towers, will be flooded, the natural environment will be submerged in thousands of years of history, ecological balances will be shaken. Iran's occasional closure of the valves suggests that war in the Middle East and tensions in the Caucasus are at risk of shutting down pipelines at any moment. When energy is linked to country security, new policies on our cultural values and energy resources that protect the environment are inevitable to develop in the coming years. Good relations with the Kurdish government of northern Iraq, to-do oil searches, a peaceful and neutral policy in Kerkuk will contribute to the peaceful democratic solution to the Kurdish problem, as well as to the energy problem. With research on energy, new planning, providing resource energy instead of importing and transition energy, evaluation of our country's natural wealth, an environmentally sensitive approach; reducing risks, closing energy gaps, giving serious contributions to the country's economy and security. So we think it would be helpful to set up a parliamentary research commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Members of parliament, the Constitutional Court's 6/1/2012 article, dated 2011/72, has been declared as the second joke of Article 83 of Article 83 of the Constitution, which was decided to investigate Denizli MP İlhan Cihaner on 30/12/2011. It's for your information. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Since the advisory board cannot be unanimous among political party groups at its meeting on Tuesday 17,01,2012, I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 19 of the Council. Adıyaman MP AK PARTY Deputy Director of Group 122 Orders of the Council of Ministers and the Plan and Budget Commission Report to be renegotiated again by the Council of Ministers, to the 2nd order of the Law Bills and Proposals of the Council of Ministers, to the 138 and 137 rows of legislation distributed under duress, and to the 3rd, 4th and 5th places of this section, to the 6th and 7th place of the Charter of the Commission, to the 3rd and 136th and 4th and 14th place of the law bill, and to take the last order of the 3 and 4th, according to the 3 and 4th rows of the 137, and 4th and 14th legislatures of the law bill, and to take the last of this order, according to the 136 and 4th and 4th, according to this, and 4th order of the other law bill. Until the meeting of the General Assembly's Plan and Budget Commission Report, with the release of 122 rows in the merger Tuesday (January 17th 2012), on Tuesday (now), has been completed. On Thursday, January 19, 2012, until the completion of talks on the 138-line bill, Keep up the good work, It's the 91th Amendment of the 138th row bill. The basis of the article is to be considered as the First Law and to have its sections in the accompanying ruler. It's recommended. [[1/487]] 1. CHAPTER 1 - 14th Articles 14 2. CHAPTER 15 - 24th (including temporary article 1st) 11 Ramadan Can is a member of the Party for Justice and Development, who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0021par0287	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The group has been sent back to Parliament with the recommendation of the President of 122 rows... which is the Law of Retirement 6262... that is, to change some of the Laws. In accordance with our president's motion to send him back, the Plan and Budget Commission has redesigned him to the General Assembly. It's a materiality. We're planning to meet today. We're thinking of running the Assembly General Assembly until the talks are over today, and we're taking it to the 2nd place on the agenda. Again, the presidential legislature, number 138 to the third place on the agenda, was adopted by the Constitutional Commission on the Presidential Legislature, which was made into a report and downloaded to the General Assembly. We propose to discuss the presidential bill in the form of the basic law. We'll take this to third place on the agenda. Again, Czech Bill 137 rows was discussed by the Justice Commission and downloaded as a report to the General Assembly. The Czech Law Bill, you know, is a bill that regulates business life, concerns our traders. Due to the principle of economic punishment for economic crime, the Czech Law has lifted freedom-binding sentences and other penalties. And in return, to ensure the balance of the debtor-received balance, there has been a ban on cutting a check card in violation. On the other hand, the Criminal and Security Measures Bill 136 rows... this proposal, combined with the proposals of the Justice Commission and prepared with human emotion... is a provision for the release of the prisoners and their relatives in case of severe illness and death. These proposals, prepared by human emotion, have also been downloaded to the General Assembly. We're thinking of taking this to the top of the agenda. On the other hand, we're thinking of taking contracts on Korea and nuclear terrorism, number 76 and 14, to the sixth and seventh places on the agenda. We're thinking of getting contracts on Iraq, which are three and four rows in the final order of the agenda. As a result, we think the presidential declaration should be completed today by reviewing a clause. On Thursday, we plan to discuss the Presidential Legislature, and we intend to discuss it as the basic law. The group welcomes the acceptance of our proposal to headquarters, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0022par0297	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0023par0298	The General Board's supply!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0024par0299	There's the General Assembly!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0022par0300	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to take a stand against the Justice and Development Party group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0025par0303	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge against the group proposal brought by the AKP. I salute you. I salute and thank Rauf Denktas, founder of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus. My condolences to the Turkish Cypriots and the entire Turkish world. We lost a great man of state, a great man of negotiation. The tears that have been shed for three days, the glory of today's funeral, are proof that Mr. Denktas has done good, that he has done right. In this regard, I will not be able to pass on a few sentences of Dr. Nazim Beratlı, the writer of Haberdar's newspaper. It says: Never forget that this man - Rauf Denktas - was a man who lost his mother at the age of one and a half and lost his father at the age of eighteen and faced life alone. In trying to evaluate his life, it is necessary to remember what he said at Karkot Creek. How everything was sold after his father's death, and he was left out in the open, how he worked his way to Magosa, how he entered the school where he finished, how he looked for teachers, how he looked for guarantors when he went to London to study law. A Greek friend of his father's finally vouched for... Those who know him also tell them that he was never close enough to tell anyone about his weakness, and that he was always on his own. Maybe it was a childhood stand, and maybe it was one of the real conditions for being a leader. The fact that the British Empire rejected the post of Hong Kong Chief Prosecutor's Office, elected the presidency of the KTKF, established the TMT (TMT) within a few months, was not the risk that the British administration would take after six months to deal with EOKA in January 1958, was not the risk that the father-in-law, who said, "I am." On the one hand, a road to the House of Lords of Britain, an uncertain path to a fight against which it would end, he chose the second one, and he walked into exile. Maybe in his psychology, it was just courage to feel indebted to his father and his friends. He was almost arrested in July 1958, and as soon as he got over it, he ran to Ankara and demanded support from Fatin Rüştüglı. He described the events that followed in a conversation: June of 1958, it was a raid. Because of the dominant, we were victorious, but we couldn't respond to the coup, because our power had emerged, and it wasn't, and it wasn't, oh, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't, it wasn't. If we didn't establish a professional organization and supply system, the counteroffensive would have swept us away. Rauf Denktaş is an important part of our history starting in 1948. After 1958, it's almost history itself. Whatever is wrong with the truth, in our history, if you erase the name Denktas, it loses its meaning. Look where it started: the Turkish Affairs Committee, running for City Council membership, the Turkish Minority Institution of Cyprus. And look where he ended up: a people who use their will to determine their future in a referendum organised by the United Nations, even if he is against it, if the world doesn't recognize it, are fighting to get into international law. My views are not hidden at all, but a minority has received an account and left us a people, says Dr. Nazim Beratlı. Once again, I remember him with respect and gratitude and my condolences to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Turkey. Dear MPs, today, as there has been a lot of time, the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly will again be set by the AKP. The controversial item of the agenda will be Bill 122 places on the extradition of the President. The most controversial part of this bill was the regulation of pensions for retired lawmakers. Turkey has always discussed this issue, and it will continue to discuss it, but it is clear that this issue needs to be made clear, and it is clear that it needs to be done in the right way. This issue is not elegant, nor is it not appropriate to organise it by adding a motion to a bill that envisions taking 3-5 lira of drug participation from citizens. The responses proved that the method was not correct. The shape sometimes determines the essence. When you make a mistake in the form, it's impossible to find the truth. Dear MPs, today we have sent the founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on its final journey. It's a day of deep sadness, a day of mourning. Today's agenda won't be elegant, it won't be appropriate to mention it again on the parliamentary salary, on the pension of a retired MP. This is not an emergency that needs to be discussed today. Today is the day to share the pain, grief, and grief of the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I, at least, think so. Let it be a day of respect for a statesman who has formed a state, created a people from a minority community. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not need to be remembered again on such a day by a controversial, reactive arrangement. Lawmakers of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey do not need to be targeted again. That's my basic idea. Dear lawmakers, this law has been extradited by the President. The president says: "It appears to have caused a public conscience. Therefore, it is beneficial to reconsider. I urge him to be consistent in this matter if the President is meticulous about his public conscience. Turkey must also show its attitude in its own actions in the operations of the Grand National Assembly. They also have a bad conscience and a bad conscience to appoint those who call patriarchism a bigotry over the institutions of Ataturk. The meticulousness of public conscience does not require the resignation of this person, but the failure to appoint him to the institutions of Ataturk. The anti-Ataturkian and anti-Ataturcism must not be assigned to the institutions of Ataturk. I have one more call for the President: there is also the Constitution, which should be measured by the public conscience. The Constitutional decrees in violation of the law have hurt the Republic of Turkey, let alone their consciences. You also sign the decree in the afternoon, which changed the decree of the law that you signed this morning. What kind of freak is that? My call to the President is not to allow the public conscience or the Republic of Turkey or the practices that have hurt the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that lawmakers have a problem with their attitude. I'm a SEC retired MP. Without this arrangement, I'd still be a SEC pensioner. But no one objects to the arrangement, but it's hard to understand the reason why there's been a high increase in eight years. Why eight years, not ten, not five? It may not be elegant for lawmakers to determine their own salaries, but there is no other authority to determine that. If an arrangement is to be made -- it has to be done -- it's better to do it clearly, without hiding, without hiding. Instead of making an arrangement with the motion in the middle of the night, it is beneficial to make a transparent arrangement and to make an arrangement that everyone can defend. Look, this arrangement must be made, considering that nearly 15 million of our citizens are below the poverty line and below the poverty limit. According to our constitution, a law on lawmakers should be passed, but so far this has not been passed. Then let this arrangement come in order. Let this matter be discussed and resolved once and for all, and let these discussions that undermine the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and lawmakers be kept on the agenda at all times. Dear lawmakers, during the talks of the Commission, our friends wrote about opposition. I share the reasons brought up. It is also necessary and necessary for citizens to be paid for their TÜFE differences, and for our retired citizens to have an attitude. We object not only to the parliamentary part of this bill, but also to the two-and-a-half-dollar share of drug participation from citizens' medicines, and I declare that we oppose it. In addition, I would like to point out that we are also opposed to bringing this matter up on a day of mourning. And I'm putting a sherrah on the stand. I say no to AKP's group proposal. The great statesman, Rauf Denktas, founder of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, once again honors his family, the people of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and the entire Turkish nation. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0026par0331	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked for a group proposal from the Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0027par0335	Mr. President, very dear MPs, and I, at the beginning of my speech, ask the Lord Rauf Denktas, the founding President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, for God's mercy and for the sake of our country. With today's group proposal, we've rearranged the agenda of our House. With this group's proposal, we move to Article 2 of the agenda, which is dated 23/12/2011 and under the Law of the Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey 6262 and to make changes in some Laws. Our friend, who just spoke against him here, made a statement, as if this was the location of an arrangement facing parliamentary salaries on the day of the death of Northern Cypriot President Rauf Denktas. It's like we don't agree with the fact that this arrangement is being indexed for parliamentary pensions. The arrangement includes pensions for those who have lost their lives in the Van earthquake, pensions for those who can't afford social security, pensions for their children, spouses. There is an arrangement for the transfer of the green card application to Social Security. Another is a wide variety of regulations, which will drop to $34 on the ground where students from abroad, especially from the Turkish republics, will pay for social security. These need to be legalized as soon as possible. First of all, it's very important to pay the people who died in the Van earthquake. It must be put on the agenda and put into action as soon as possible, so that our brothers and our citizens can benefit from it. The next thing we're going to take to the agenda is the Presidential Bill of Law, Article 3 of the agenda. We put the Czech Law Bill on the 4th order of our agenda, the Law Proposal on Penalty and Security Measures, at the 5th place on the agenda, and the Dair Law Charter on the Approvement of Co-operation and Reciprocity Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Turkey. And our working hours extend our working hours until the end of this feedback thesis -- there is no change in our working hours tomorrow -- and on Thursday, we extend our hours until the end of the meeting of the bill for the presidential election. The bill on the presidential election is discussed in two parts, and it is considered the basic law, which is part of our group proposal. The group announces that we will vote in favor of our proposal, with all due respect, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0028par0342	Thank you, Mr. Special. The Justice and Development Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Sırrı Sakık, Müsh MP. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0029par0346	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I have made a promise against the Justice and Development Party's proposal because we have not been able to comply with the Justice and Development Party's agenda with our agenda. Either we don't live in this country or the Justice and Development Party lives in a country of roses, and we don't know it. Dear friends, an operation is being conducted at night by the order of special security units, prosecutors and prosecutors from Istanbul, to lawmakers who were your colleagues two days ago. There's no law at all when it's called KCK. At night in Ankara, Leyla Zana's house was opened by police and was searched while Layla was away. The year's 1994... at least in those days, it was many years ago -- this Parliament would lift it -- but it had an immunity suit in shape, and then the process would begin, but today it's not even needed. So the immunity armor is underfoot, and the special prosecutors rule it out, and operations are being conducted at night, and at one time, the 23rd term here, a friend who served in Parliament, Van MP Fatma Kurtan, and a fellow who served as Chairman of the Group, is being taken away overnight, and, again, Tuncer Bakerhan, who served as the chairman of the DEHAP General, is being taken away at night. At the time, the President was saying, because when they took us away from here, the police had taken this place to the blockade. At the gate, before our immunity was removed -- there were talks at the General Assembly -- where they picked up Orhan Doğan the Rahmetite from the gate of Çankaya. The President of the period said it was not very elegant. ▪ Do so, but at least make it fit in the book. The year 2012, we face the same thing: the same statement, the same language of the same state. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey says in his statement again, follow a bit of this order, order, and law. That's the policy you apply to your opponents, and that's what you want to do, plain and simple. You don't give your opponents a life. You were yesterday's victims, but today you were cruel to us. Today you are trying to destroy the opposition, and you, at night... orhan Doğan, has lost his life. The home of a former MP who died five years ago is being raided and terrorized at night. What do you want to do? Even if you die, we're at your head, if you don't make it. What kind of democracy is that, a law, for God's sake? They weren't implemented during September 12th. Even during September 12th, 70 per cent of those arrested would end in acquittal. But in 2012, Kurdish politicians were inside, still unable to testify in court for three years, and you're talking about freedom and democracy. A case is being filed today in Beşiktaş, the Hrant Dink case. In the 19th month, the fifth year ends, and into the sixth year. We still don't have the perpetrators, we still don't have who's behind it, who's behind it, who's behind it, not who's pulling the trigger, who's pulling the trigger, who's pulling the trigger... here today, in the decision-making process, we're going to be watching a case together in the evening. Why were 31 former BDP MPs, former presidents and executives arrested there in Beşiktas last night? The police reports say that they read the instructions from Mr. Ocalan, from Imran. Now, I'm asking here -- the government's authorities are sitting -- for God's sake, you lawyers, you journalists, you arrest the political world. Aren't the talks from Imralı coming to the Ministry of Justice, the Chief of Staff, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Justice, some of those talks before they land from Imralı? Don't you read these notes? If you don't read these notes, you're not a politician. If we don't read these notes, we're not politicians, and if these notes are enough for an execution, how do we contribute to our inner peace, what do we do? And that's the only reason 31 of our friends were arrested last night. You've read the notes... I'll tell you more clearly, many of the notes that have come in, we sit down with the government's authorities, we read them, we argue with them, what can we do... when you read them, you do your duty, and when we read them as representatives of the people, what do we want to do? We want to keep our peace together. If we have a problem, we say we can sit down and talk it out, but unfortunately, none of this is a right for us, and it's enough for us to be judged on the contrary. Turkey's agenda is so different. Maybe you're not going to one-on-one prisons, but we had friends from the Republican People's Party, and I followed them. We, as a group of MPs, traveled many prisons of Turkey together; we went from Mardin to Diyarbakır, Kandira, Kandıra, İstanbul, and Edirne, to many prisons, and went to Mush prison. We've been there, we've seen it, and I assure you, 28 prisoners and prisoners remain in eight places. Our Şırnak MP Selma Irmak is staying at a place of 8 people, and there are 20 people in the women's ward. Hundreds of patients can't get out of bed anymore, according to forensic reports, they need to be liberated immediately, but no one's making a sound. Neither the ruling party nor the President have the authority. That doesn't take place as soon as possible. You discipline people there with hunger. Paying $4, $4.5 and four meals of it... what kind of a law state would that be, would that be a social state? So you're saying there can be 40 people in 20 places? In fact, the kitchens have beds at night, and in these kitchens, these people stay up all night. We shared it with the Minister of Justice that three people were in a bunk bed. While that should be our main agenda, we should all be finding a way out of this together, unfortunately, you have a new prison project. So as much as we're talking about freedoms and democracy, you're going through new, more modern prisons with these people. Now look, if there's no cure, the road is the cure. Since we have not found a cure for the democratic forces of Turkey, the road is a cure. We said, "The punishment is a cure." We said, "Resistence is a cure." Hitting ourselves in the field is a cure, it's a cure to resist despot governance, it's a cure to hit ourselves in the mountains. It's because of despair that we've hit the field and we're in pain. You have no right to put us through this. No one has the right to do this to the public. For him, you must know that there are no more ways, no more mountains, no more dungeons. The cure is democracy, insurance is democracy, insurance is law, the cure is law; I invite you to law, cure and democracy. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0030par0360	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Under Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2/15 I gave you is the 37th Amendment to Higher Education Law Number 2547. In accordance with the clause, since it will not be discussed in the commission within 45 days, I demand and demand that it be taken directly into consideration. Yours truly. 02/12/2011 Dr. Reşat Right Proposal is Reşat Right, Slap MP. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0031par0375	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment under Article 37 of the Civil Code, upon the fact that the proposal for amendments to the 2547 Higher Education Law has not been discussed on time in the commissions. I salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, again, to Rauf Denktas, the founder of the Turkish Cypriot state, who is one of the leaders of the Turkish world, I pray for God's mercy, that his place may be in heaven. He's a hero, and the Cyprus case he left will be followed by the Turkish nation all the time, and he'll never be released. Congressmans, this law proposal is also about the return of capital to personnel who work at university hospitals at 4/b status. As you know, there are many groups in our country that work as contractors in the status of 4/B, 4/C. So we're saying that it's time for 4/B, 4/C, all of these contracts to be united under one roof. We need to combine all of these under a certain roof, and we need to get rid of all of these concepts, because in the case of 4/CH, if there are now monopoly workers in our country, let there be TEDAS workers -- I imagine there will be sugar factory workers in the coming period, and those workers are in the process -- they all need to be taken into one status, and they need to be heard, and at some point, their victims need to be removed. I believe that their victims will soon be relieved, and their psychology will be able to solve their problems, their problems. One of them is about people who work at university hospitals, who work at medical school hospitals, who work at 4/B status. According to State Officers Act 657, the employed contractors must also take advantage of rotating capital, as did staff members with the same training. The current situation creates injustice, creating unrest among the staff. This also disrupts the working peace and lowers the performance of a large number of working people. Members of parliament, our proposal for the law aims to ensure that there is sufficient payment from capital to personnel working at university hospitals who also work at 4/B status, and that they do not strive to get into other health institutions. The workers outside university hospitals benefit from the return capital, but their inability to take advantage of it in their own hospitals is a source of unrest, and when they have the opportunity, it causes them to move elsewhere. And that's what's disrupting medical care by creating a staff deficit. The time has come for a variety of changes in the laws on return capital paid to health care personnel. Medical personnel also want to benefit from income related to the return capital paid to them when they retire. Taxes are deducted from return capital revenues, but these contributions to personnel do not fully reflect retirement. Retired health workers face very little pension when they are deprived of their return capital revenues. Therefore, health workers who are living on a very small pension need to work again. In this way, many of our friends are currently trying to end their retirement, even though they've worked almost years, and they're trying to contribute to their pension by working at another institution or returning to the office. It can also be a benefit to these people who are retiring in such a rapid way, in this direction, at some point, and I would like to express that we are obliged to support them as soon as possible. So, we have to say that supporting these people in this way, solving their problems, is also part of the duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With this law we bring in, it aims to solve a medical staff's problem with return capital. In fact, many of these problems are standing before us right now, from rotating capital revenues to other health workers. At the moment, a large number of our fellow physicians at university hospitals are in great distress, and they need to be addressed and offered solution proposals. I hope that this law that we have brought will be supported by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it will be a start from now on, which I say I expect support from all of you, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0032par0384	Thank you, Mr. Right. It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants to speak for a member of parliament.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0033par0387	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of Law Law 2547. I salute you all. First of all, I regret the loss of Mr. Rauf Denktas. I also had a chance to meet him in person, and I bow before his memory, and ask God's mercy. My condolences to all of us. Dear lawmakers, a while ago, we discussed the concept of equal pay for equal work here, all together for days. You've been out with AKP MPs. You said that people who do equal work should be paid equally. You've made serious efforts here to correct the wrongs you've made with a swift decree of the law, and you've changed the agenda again, and you've tried to make some changes in your ordinances, but you failed again because you couldn't afford equal work. Here's the offer I promised you, and the offer on this 4/B is very clear how you failed. This offer was actually brought to equal work to support your argument of equal wage a little bit. Let's see, I'll see your hands soon, whether you'll accept them or not. In fact, your conscience would have been relieved by the return of capital to the 4/B/B people, the giving of the rotating capital they deserved. In fact, even if you said yes, you wouldn't be able to give 4/B/B people the rights because you're employing them in different positions. That's the economics of it. Even if you give them their money, these people are a loser because they're employed in different positions. On one side is the officer, on the other is the 4/B, on the subcontractor. Think of a nurse, think of a health worker, who does the same work on very different staffs and can't get paid equally. Let's see what kind of attitude you guys are about to have in front of this painting, and you're going to say, "Yes." Are you going to say, "No." I'm not a genius, but I know you're going to say no to this bill. So I promise from here, I'll take a video of your saying no. I'll publish it on my website to show it to all 4/B health workers, and I'll say, "This is what AKP looks like. He promises you, he says equal wages for equal work. When we bring an offer, he says no. ▪ Mr. Lawmakers, say yes. Then if you don't want to get into this situation, please tell the 4/B people that they're entitled to their share of the return capital. Look, you're making mistakes on a lot of fundamental issues, and then there's the opposition, and they're doing some work to correct these fundamental wrongs that you're making. What are you guys doing? You're listening to the voice of the opposition, as always. You people want the opposition to talk. You say, "Maybe they'll tell us what we can't see." We're dating, we're telling you this, but unfortunately, your ears don't hear us. What will you say when we offer you this and support you as another opposition party CHP? You will say, "Do not charge equal wages for equal work." What do you say? So let's not let the workers of ▪4/B/B get the money they deserve. You'll say, "Don't let the workers of 4/B/B get the return capital they deserve." Look, we didn't just get a promise to support this bill. In fact, we also prepared a law proposal to give this bill a much more important support. In this law proposal, we said, let's remove the 4/B/B people, let's put these people directly into the staff. Again, we said: let's not crush the 4/B/B/L people in any way, and let's raise all the return capital of the 4/B/B/B/L people, because return capitals don't go to retirement. I said let's make a fee policy to reflect on retirement. Look, do you know where this economic understanding of yours, your sense of return and profit leads us? Yesterday, I went to Kiğı district of Bingöl. The road to the Kiğı district of Bingöl was blocked, the electricity was cut off, and you had shut down the hospital and there was a woman trying to give birth in great distress. Well, that's your sense of economics. Don't get this into medicine. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit01spe0034par0396	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0034par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 52nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. Mr. Lawmakers, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner Yildiz, I'm reading the verbal question motions that I've made in the presentations that he wants to answer together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Customs and Trade. 14.7.2011 Due to the opening of the gate in Ardahan Posof, and the failure to work at the desired level, all Ardahan people are asked to do more work. They want the Sarp border crossing to work right next to us. When Turkgözı works like the Sarp border crossing, the volume of trade will improve, the migration will stop and the service will come to Ardahan. 1- Will you have a study in Ardahan in Ardahan in order for the Ardahan Posof Kuzu border crossing to work as the Sarp border crossing and to prevent trade and migration? 07.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, will answer my following questions verbally. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light Despite your statement that electricity and gas will not be increased by about 10% as of early October, then the gas dwelling has increased by 12.2-14.3%; and the industry has increased by 13.7-14.3%. Regarding these hikes, which have led to the severe response and victimization of our citizens, 1) What is the reason for these high rates of electricity and natural gas? 2) How can you view a raise as a minister despite your statement that "there will be no increase in electricity and natural gas"? 3) Does this confirm the popular view that "it is contrary to what the politicians say"? 4) What is your ministry's opinion on the return of the latest gas and electricity hikes that have led to the victims of our fixed and small-income citizens? Do you have any work on this? 10.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources for my sums listed below, will be answered verbally. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light A question about electricity and gas hikes used in housing and industry... Prices balance in gas every month, electricity balances in itself every three months.' Your answer, in turn, has led to public comments that "zams will continue." Regarding this statement: 1. After a high increase in early October, does the statement by you mean that natural gas and electricity will increase periodically during the specified times? 2. How fair do you find these raises reflected equally? 3. What are the total rates of gas and electricity planned by your ministry for 2011 and 2012? 4. Do you have a project in our country to support millions of citizens living under the age of hunger or poverty? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Hunt. Gürkut Acar 1-Seydişehir Etimi Aluminum Inc. As part of its privatisation, how much electricity has been sold to the system over the years from the Oymapınar Hydroelectric Plant, which has been handed over to the company for free? How much does this sale cost? Is the free era of Oymapınar HES, which is estimated at $2 billion, consistent with your energy policy, given the bids for the HES after the announcement of the 2-Privisation Administration? 3- Is Turkey rich enough to hand over a $2 billion dam for $305 million in privatisation and buy electricity from the power plant he gave for free? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Resources. Yours truly. The high tension lines that cross the neighborhoods of Istanbul, Esenyurt, Fatih, Saadededere, İncirtepe have a negative impact on the lives of those living in the region, threatening human health. The line over our three neighborhoods is about 20 meters above our buildings. In addition, there are many-story buildings in the areas of our neighborhoods that do not cross high tension lines, but there are no zoning permits in areas close to high tension lines, and property rights for our citizens are being destroyed. Your Ministry must take immediate measures to develop a solution to the underground accession of high tension lines through this region. Is there a study of this? Or what solution do you have in mind? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. It is said that materials, tools and materials needed by the energy distribution companies, which are customised and transferred, cannot be provided directly by energy distribution companies, which are billed to each other from two or three companies founded by interested companies, and are eventually billed to distribution companies by the third company. 1. Are there such apps in the companies that are being handed over? 2. If this practice exists, does it cause public harm? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Dr. Reşat Right 1 - How many break-ins have there been in every pipeline in our country in the last five years? 2 - How much financial damage has been caused by these attempts? 3 - Do you intend to take a change in the security system or to increase security in order to prevent such events? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. It is said that materials, tools and materials needed by the energy distribution companies, which are customised and transferred, cannot be provided directly by energy distribution companies, which are billed to each other from two or three companies founded by interested companies, and are eventually billed to distribution companies by the third company. 1. Are there such apps in the companies that are being handed over? 2. If this practice exists, does it cause public harm? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. The high tension lines that cross the neighborhoods of Istanbul, Esenyurt, Fatih, Saadededere, İncirtepe have a negative impact on the lives of those living in the region, threatening human health. The line over three neighborhoods is about 20 metres above our buildings. In addition, there are many-story buildings in the areas of our neighborhoods that do not cross high tension lines, but there are no zoning permits in areas close to high tension lines, and property rights for our citizens are being destroyed. Your Ministry must take immediate measures to develop a solution to the underground accession of high tension lines through this region. Is there a study of this? Or what solution do you have in mind? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. Bağcılar is one of the largest districts in Istanbul with population density. Electrical services in this region are provided by BEDAŞ. However, some of our citizens with jobs in BEDAŞ have to go to Bayrampaşa and some have to go to BEDAŞ in Sepaköy, where the population is nearing 1 million. Since there is no direct transport from this district to Bayrampaşa and Sefaköy, a number of vehicles are forced to change and go to the relevant institution. Our citizens in the Union have to receive all other services except electricity bills from the BEDAS branch in Bayrampaşa and Sefaköy. It is necessary to open a centre that will serve citizens in BEDAS. Will you take immediate measures to resolve this problem, which is very important to our citizens by your ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy. 10.10.2011 1. Why is the recent fuel increase in natural gas? 2. Because of these increases, the citizen has suffered a great deal. How will the victims of the citizens be compensated? 3. What kind of work do you have as a ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly, 25.10.2011. The annual gas deal imported from Russia via the West Line has been cancelled. The statement has shown that the relevant state does not want to give discounts as a reason for the cancellation. However, the private sector is said to be able to buy 6 billion cubic metres of natural gas coming along this line. According to this information: 1. How will the private sector buy gas, which is expensive for the public? If the private sector is going to buy it cheaper, hasn't the government negotiated? 2. How much of the electricity we produce is produced by natural gas power plants? 3. What studies are being carried out to reduce the energy share produced by natural gas that is not found in Turkey? 4. Are energy prices in Turkey expensive on the euro basis compared to OECD and EU countries? If so, how expensive is it? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, and that it be answered verbally by Mr. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. 20.10.2011 In many villages in Eskişehir, electricity meters are being changed without the will of the citizens. On the other hand, 1) Why do consumers pay the meter money for citizens who have to change their electric meter when they don't want to? 2) What is the reason for the change in the counters, although there is no change in them? 3) Do privatised electricity distribution companies have the power to force consumers to change their solid meter? 4) Because of the change of these counters, are companies that generate electric counters indirectly supported? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy. 26.10.2011 1. What kind of investments are there in your ministry's investment programme for the province of Adana in 2012? How much money will be earmarked for these investments?? 2. What is the distribution of these investments according to the counties?? 3. What's the ratio of the investment programme to Adana province to other cities? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources for my following questions, is required to be answered verbally. 24.10.2011 It's been 33 years since the Piri Reis ship was built in 1978, and it's been researching our seas, and we haven't been able to put another ship on it. It's a sign of the importance of research in our country surrounded by seas. Maritime-based countries don't have ships over 25 years old. Some countries not only don't have it, they don't even let it into their port. He's not taking the risk of causing serious trouble. 1-Nailing countries don't have over 25 ships in inventory, and we've had Piri Reis ships for 33 years. When will the new research ship be built, when will it be built? 2- Has the changing technology and equipment been installed on the Piri Reis ship, when have these devices been installed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. Because of high tension lines passed through İstanbul, Başakşehir, Dovetepe neighbourhood, land owners have not been allowed to build in this region for years, property rights have become unusable. Although there are all kinds of zoning permits around the region, this region is victimised. Energy transport lines are a negative influence on the living conditions of all our citizens living in this region. The people of the region are extremely unhappy and anxious. What measures have been taken and taken by your Ministry for high tension lines going through the neighborhoods of İstanbul Başakşehir districts? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. Because of high tension lines passed through İstanbul, Başakşehir, Dovetepe neighbourhood, land owners have not been allowed to build in this region for years, property rights have become unusable. Although there are all kinds of zoning permits around the region, this region is victimised. Energy transport lines are a negative influence on the living conditions of all our citizens living in this region. The people of the region are extremely unhappy and anxious. What measures have been taken and taken by your Ministry for high tension lines going through the neighborhoods of İstanbul Başakşehir districts? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. 21.11.2011 1. What are your projects and investments in Adana Province and districts of your ministry and related institutions? 2. Are there any studies of the problems of the State of Adana of your Ministry? If so, what are you? 3. In connection with public services in Adana province, how much is the grant from the 2012 fiscal year budget? 4. Is Adana short-staffed? If so, how will you compensate for the personnel deficit? 5. In regard to your field of duty, how do you assess the public services you've taken to Adana province in terms of regional balances? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Yours truly. The East Mediterranean Geothermal Energy Search Project, conducted by the Mining Study and Search Directorate, was also part of our Kahramanmarash province. 1. As part of this project, when do you plan to complete your work in the province of Kahramanmarash Kapakmam and Bazazcık? Do you have any research on that? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. The Kahramanmarash Organised Industry District has applied to the ECEDAS and TEASI institution for an appropriate electricity schedule. 1. Do you think you could help the region with the price of electricity for the Organised Industrial Zone, which covers all power line hardware and all electricity distribution costs? Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. The town of Kahramanmarash is one of the districts of Pazarcık, both 74,259 populations and 75 manufacturing companies in which industry is busy. 1. Do you intend to make a natural gas connection to our county, which is a major contribution to the national economy, to be used in industrial and housing? 2. Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. In our town, Kahramanmarash is fed by an important part of the city's centre and the organised industrial district, the Guided Trafo Centre. Therefore, the capacity of the transformer set up at 2X100 in its time is about to be filled. 1. When do you plan to increase the capacity of this transformer? Do you have any work to do? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. In our province of Kahramanmarash, where 1,868 tradesmen are operating, 1,000 new businesses are scheduled to be added to the Small Industrial Site. 1- Do you intend to connect the gas to the Small Industrial Site? Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. Due to numerous HES investments in the Andır district of Kahramanmarash County, current power transformers have filled their capacity. 1- Given the ongoing investments, do you plan to build a new emergency transformer center in this area? 2- Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. In our province of Kahramanmarash, there are 12 production plants routed to the Caspian Basin TM. These plants are operating on three levels, while others are in the process of building. Therefore, in order to transfer energy production into the system, the permanent transformer centre must be speeded up and completed. 1- Do you intend to open the Falls Basin Trafo Center, which will serve permanently? 2 - When do you plan to open it to the service? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. In our town of Kahramanmarash, the tender for electricity production has been delayed since the completion of the guided dam's hull. 1- What are the reasons for the delay in the tender? 2-HES electromechanic equipment was not completed due to the delay in the tender? 3- How much did this delay cost the national economy in total? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. In our province of Kahramanmarash, there are 21 HES and 12 HES investments that have been activated by the Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant. 1- Do you have a study in order to quickly intervene in the problems of the transmission system and to bring radical solutions to the development of a structure similar to the Department of Groups, the Department of Heroes and Maintenance? Do you plan to study it? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. The Heromarash Organised Industry District has been produced in 42 workplaces, and 12 businesses are under construction and project. The area is produced in business arms, such as textiles, mineral kitchen appliances, aluminum plates, luxuriant cardboard, sauce, spices, bulcor, and corn chips. 1- Do you intend to connect a natural gas line to this area in order to meet the region's energy needs? Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, will answer my following questions verbally. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, media reports have also reported that the Greek Cypriots have traveled very close to the platform where they drilled along with the Piri Reis ship, which was sent south of Cyprus to retaliate for seismic research into oil and gas searches launched by the Greek Cypriot Administration (GKRY) in the Mediterranean. On the subject of this matter, What kind of data has been obtained as a result of seismic research by the 1-Pari Reis ship? 2- Is this data evaluated by TPAO? As a result of the evaluations, what conclusion was reached? 3- Is there any oil or gas reserves in the known area? 4 - Were there any problems during the study of the ship? 5 - How far has the search for oil and natural gas done by the GKRY in the remembered region come? What measures have been taken by our country? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In production of geothermal electricity, the "tricked earthquakeism" created by intense steam pull and the resuscitation of water used has become an important topic in the world. We're looking at increased production and number of geothermal pulses, causing damage and disturbing triggered earthquake activity. I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Prof. Dr. Haluk Eyiborn Is there a network of earthquake storms and study networks in Turkey that have been triggered by increasing number and production volumes of geothermal power plants? What geothermal areas do such studies take place? What are the tools and methods used for study? 30.11.2011 The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, With all due respect, Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, will answer my following questions verbally. In the Mediterranean, Piri Reis has launched a seismic ship into the Mediterranean in response to oil drilling by the Greek-Israeli alliance, as the government has decided to give Turkey's national oil company Turkey's Anonym Partnership (TPAO) "a license to buy a new seismic ship" in media. 1) How will the technical properties of the new seismic vessel be? 2) What countries produce the new ship, which says it can do three-dimensional seismic research? 3) It is considered to be purchased from which country and under what conditions. 4) Is it true that Turkey's 90m - long seismic ship, built for about 100m euros, is expected to begin work in 2013? What's our country's point in this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, Mr. Taner Yildiz, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources for my following questions, is required to be answered verbally. 30.11.2011 Public buildings in the East and Southeast do not have an electric meter. Part of the administrative losses in the region are that there are no time-reading devices in many houses administratively. As such, our citizen in the region is in great straits because he is under suspicion of using illegal electricity. 1) How many public institutions in the eastern and Southeast provinces, towns and villages do not have power meter? 2) Since when have public institutions and organizations not had an electric meter? 3) When will public institutions without a power meter be installed or installed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are being answered verbally by Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu According to State Officers Act 657 of public institutions and organisations, the staff they employ is obliged to employ 3% of the entire staff of the relevant institution or organisation. 1- In 2010 and 2011, what are the number of disabled staff employees that your Ministry and Ministry-related institutions and organisations have employed, according to Law 657, and the number of disabled personnel that should be employed? Under Law 2-657, does your ministry and your ministry have a disability deficit under the obligation to employ disabled personnel? If so, how much is the lack, and have the demands for the removal of this deficiency been forwarded to the State Staff President? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are being answered verbally by Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu Invoices on electricity consumption show that many non-consumption costs are being billed to our citizens. It is known that it attracts the response of citizens, and it is also seen as curious as to why it is expected to end this practice by citizens. 1- What are the pencils that are the cost factor in electric bills today? How and how are their rates calculated? Which of these elements began to appear in the bills after 2002? 2- Are all the costs included in the bills applied throughout our country? If there's any difference, what are these differences and why? How much of the $3-100 electricity bill is the price of electricity consumption? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. The filtering in the chimneys of the Afshin Termic Plant is vital to our affinized countrymen. 1. Are you planning on putting a filter in the thermal power vents? Do you have any work to do? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. Yours truly. Afşin Termik Operator is asked to use hot water in refrigeration towers to warm up the district of Afşin. 1. Do you have a study of the use of hot water at the plant in the heating of our Afşin district? Are you planning on doing a study on this? The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, With all due respect, Mr. Taner Star, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, will answer my following questions verbally. As is known, domestic manufacturing support in the existing CEC support mechanism is given in the form of mechanical or electro-mechanical domestic products for the purpose of producing electrical energy from renewable energy sources. However, secondary legislation to determine how domestic a product is has not yet been adopted. On the subject of this matter, 1. Where are the regulations for how to determine and pay local product support for the support of SEC investors? How long will the work be completed? 2. At least how much of the cost elements will be provided from inside the country in the definition of domestic product? 3. CAN domestic product support be used as a product of the domestic contribution in the product used by the amount of support mentioned in the Covenant No. II of the relevant Law? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, my following questions have been answered verbally by Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız. There is an excuse for the maintenance of street lighting lamps in the villages and in some neighborhoods of our province. Because of the gathering of street lamps, our citizens are doomed to darkness. 1. So far, how many street lamps have been collected in the city of Mugla, villages and locations on the basis of "care"? 2. How many of the collected streetlights have been reused after maintenance? 3. Do you have a purpose in collecting streetlights with so-called maintenance excuses to condemn our citizens to darkness? 4. How long will it take for our citizens to suffer the loss of their streetlights? Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0035par0367	Mr. President, I would like to welcome the esteemed lawmakers to respond on behalf of our government to a different number-one question proposal from the Ministry of Customs and Trade (6/10). I salute you all with respect and respect. First of all, the question Mr. Ensar Öğüt. Mr. Ensar Öğüt. As to increasing the operation of the Posof Türközözo Border Gate: Of course, the restructuring of customs doors is carried out according to the Law's provisions regarding the construction of several Investments and Services No. 3996. In that regard, the building, which the customs administration currently serves, has been built with general budget opportunities, and its needs are covered by the general budget. The issue has been brought to justice and has not yet been concluded due to the disputes that took place during the construction of the service building. The process is planned to be carried out within the framework of the construction-business-regulation process following the end of the judicial process. First of all, I don't find it right that the statements I make in public from time to time are carried by different meanings. I've explained the mechanism of this at certain times; I've explained what mechanism the price of natural gas is controlled in, what mechanism the price of electricity is controlled in. And for that, of course, we've moved to cost-based pricing mechanisms in the energy OSCEs since February 14, 2008 and the Supreme Planning Board's Decision 2008, starting on 1 July 2008. According to this decision, changes in cost and exchange rates are reflected in prices and sales prices are determined and implemented according to this decision. Of course, according to this decision, electricity prices increased by 9.57 per cent for housing and 9.26 per cent for industry, effective from 01/10/2011. Natural gas sales have not increased in more than two years, but in February and May 2009, the reduction was reduced by 17 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. However, the BOTAS General Directorate has also had to increase in the final prices of gas, 12.28 per cent and 14.35 per cent for housing, and 13.17 per cent for industry, and 14.30 per cent, depending on the increases in foreign currency rates in international oil and oil products, from 1/10/2011. Of course, when we look at the value of exchange prices, we can see for what reasons they are being done. Kütahya MP, again, for the question asked by Mr. Alim Imlight (228) in the original number (213), as I said in my response to your oral question, it is also possible to answer that again, in order not to go back. In the main oral question motion of Antalya MP Gürkut Acar. (247) questions related to Sejdişehir Eti Aluminum Inc are asked. Here, the total amount of electricity sold to the system is around 2.8 billion kilowatts per hour. The total financial equivalent of this electricity sale is 553 million, 893,680 TL, including VAT. Regarding the Oymapınar HES, however, it would be appropriate for the Privatisation Administration to answer in detail, as well as to the matter in accordance with legislation. Of course, here in 2009, I would also like to remind you that the company's 50 per cent EPDK board decision was returned to the ESU General Directorate by 74 million,815,122 euros in exchange for energy over the limit, which exceeds the limit of 28 per cent. A number of articles were placed in his contract dated 29/7/2005 concerning the sale of the 100 per cent public share of the privatisation agency, which is in the capital of Aluminum Inc. Of course, it's written in feasibility at the time when this factory was built in 1969, especially in order to produce 1 ton of aluminum, with a total cost of 4/5. Of course, Russian technology started editing and completed its construction in 1977, and this dam is the hydroelectric plant, but with its production, the most important condition for the production of aluminum from the bauxite mine is that it has its own special energy. The answer to İstanbul MP Mevlüt Aslanoglu's (6/265) main oral question motion was the introduction of high tension lines from some areas. The 2ndikitelli of 380 kilovolt Barn, 154 kilovolt Storage Twotelli energy transmission lines, and 154 kilovolts Embarrassing Hamimköy energy transmission line. Of course, I'm saying this especially for friends outside the energy sector, they're kind of the highways of the country. Other AG lines or OG lines are used either in double roads or in different ways. Of course, if we look at the official dates of these, we might be able to figure out which one of them was before which one. The 154 kilovolt energy transfer lines passed through Saadededere neighborhood in Esenyurt district were served in 1964, by the publicisation of valuable friends. Again, in the year 1969, Ambarite Startepe, and these lines are always nationalized within those distances that are known to it, and there are definitely buildings that are built in the manner of slums that are not allowed to be built there. Therefore, the collapse of those buildings is only a process that can only be done after those costs have been paid, but we're allocated, of course, if there's any money left behind from Turkey's progress, growth and expansion investments. Again, in response to İstanbul MP Mevlüt Aslanoglu's main verbal question motion (269)... the distribution of Articles related to the distribution of materials related to the regulation of Distribution System Investments in the Electric Market and Investigations in Plans. The regulations related to the pricing of the service are surely published. Therefore, the unit price is determined by many factors, each investment element is fixed for 21 distribution companies. But the unidentified ones, what were they: ATT, SCADA, publicization, building, vehicle, cleaning. In matters that do not concern direct distribution services, they can cover up to 20 per cent of a 100-unit budget. With transfer pricing, they can be evaluated. In response to Mr. Reshad Right's number-one oral question motion (279), I can also say that there have been 238 attempted thefts in our country in five years. These incidents normally caused damage like $3.1 million in U.S. dollars. Of course, according to the General Assembly's Protection Protocol, law enforcement and private security systems are also protected by law enforcement and law enforcement forces. Of course, there have been attempts at thefts at different times, from many pipelines, including the Iraqi-Turkey crude oil pipeline, Ceyhan-Kırkkale, Batman-Fourways, Shell-Mo-Batman, BTC-BIL. In the main oral question motion of İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi (85), there is a number of issues related to privatisations, which, in a similar way, are related to distribution systems in the electricity market, I can give you a similar answer about meeting their needs and arranging their investments. Of course, the unit price here has been determined and the rules and bases of the unspecified have just happened the way I described them. Again, the answer of Mr. Süleyman Çelebi (293) in the main verbal question motion... is the same as the one I gave to İstanbul regarding Esenyurt, Fatih, Saadededere, İncirtepe neighborhoods, about high tension lines just before. Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu asked a question about the services of BEDAŞ (Bedash) in a number of places in the Bağcılar district that are over a million people. Of course, there are all sorts of other transactions here, especially on the grounds that the Sefaköy Business Directorate, which serves the District of Bağcılar, is easy to access, except for the subscription system. The Alo 186 call center, created by the System Co-ordinating Directorate, provides services for all of our clients in this sense. The main oral question motion for Adana MP Ali Halaman (331) is asked again where the gas prices rise from. It's a similar question, but in case we don't go back to it... at the same time in February 2009 when we gave the discount and again in May, you know, when we discounted it around 25 percent and around 17 percent, the raw oil barrel is 45.45 dollars, as of today. I'd like to bring to your attention the part of the difference that affects the gas formulating. By the way, it's about exchange prices, and as of late September, the share of the dollar is around 1.68, and today it's around 1.86. I'm sure the difference here would be useful to explain. Of course, as far as the board's powers are concerned, they've asked about our country's primary energy supply, local supply, gross production of electricity. What was the amount produced from renewable energy sources? 34 billion kilowatts in 2002 and now 57.9 billion kilowatts per hour. In the question motion asked by Mr. Mehmet Ali Sesam (360) in its original number, why was the agreement from Russia cancelled on the western line, and why was the reason for that? They asked other detailed questions. There were, of course, decisions made regarding the transfer to the private sector in accordance with gas market law 4646. For these, we've closed contracts for the private sector to contract the six-bcm -- six billion cubic metres. There were only three main lines coming from the West Line, and I'd like to say that we ended up with one of them, one of them went before, and the other one stayed in public. They asked, "What is the share of natural gas in the electricity we produce?" I'd say 44.7 percent of it was used in 2011 to produce natural gas-based energy. Of course, by the way, we didn't get a new contract with the letter we made. We're going to finish all the old-school or payables that we have left in 2012, in the year we're in, and hopefully, we'll be done with what we call the rest of the things we call make up this year. As a result, the Russian Federation will have no further setbacks with the rest of the Federation. I think that's a win for Turkey. Of course, I'd say the discounts we got there are also happy for the gas market, but I also have to say that the increases in exchange prices also cover certain discounts. In Turkey, do we want to reduce the share of this gas? Yes, we want to reduce it. We want to reduce the share of natural gas, especially in power generation plants. From renewable energy sources, what were they? Here, we want to substitute energy sources such as water, geothermal, wind, sun, and local resources such as local coal -- instead. Of course, the prices of these are at what rate, and what are the price of electricity prices and gas prices? I'd say the current prices on natural gas are now being sold from 27 European Union member states -- at current prices -- to 27 European Union countries. In response to Mr. Kazım Kurt, Eskişehir MP (390)'s original oral question motion, I can also say: Of course -- we have 442,045 subscribers in Eskişehir, a missing number of 7,046, a 9.191km air line and other technical specs. The periodic examinations of electric, water and gas meters related to them are mandatory every ten years. These are included in the second chapter of the Measures and Settings Law -- Number 3516 -- and the bans on branding. We also have a preparation for these, which is to reduce the loss of fugitives. What are the investments in Adana Province? And I will inform them of it in writing. But I can tell you that the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources has a total investment amount of $3.9 billion in 2012. Of course, there are shares in Adana, which can be done in terms of BOTAS, which can be done in terms of TKI, by the EPDK, by the TPAO, by the EUAS, by this TEIAS. There is the district directorate of the MTA (MTA). With the mining work, hopefully a large investment is being thought of in 2012. Mr. Ensar Öğün (6/423) is the main no. In his oral question motion, of course, we have ships over 25 years old, what are they doing? Is there a problem with this? Is it related to Piri Reis? Dear friends, of course, we need to inform a large area here. We know that research ships operate for fifty-sixty years on average, and merchant ships work for about thirty-forty years, and in research ships, with the importance of ships, measurements and sample equipment, the ratio is 7 percent of the ship's size, and the ship is the carrier of equipment on research ships. Piri Reis is thirty-three years old. His technology has been carefully monitored and his devices are constantly renovated. The renovated device is 7 per cent of the total ship. It is not only seismic, but also equipped with the latest model equipment, such as geology, biology, chemistry, physical, oceanography, marine engineering, archeology. This is not only in Turkey, but also by Gazprom and by BP. So let's not underestimate it. Piri Reis has fulfilled his function in the Mediterranean, and the seismic ship, which TPAO is now rented from Norway, is also 40 years old, and the U.S. research vessel, whose name is Bergen Surveyor, is 43 years old. So in these studies, whatever tasks we gave him, he did those tasks within measurements of two-dimensional seismic searches. Within 12 hours, it can be removed from a biological study equipment on its normal deck at around 10 tons and replaced with seismic equipment. Therefore, we, of course, continue to work not only with Piri Reis, but also with other ships, and all lines given on November 2nd were successfully completed and were given to TPAO. We, in particular, continue to work as part of the Fishermen's Shelter Recovery Project, under the agreement between us and the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus. Actually, there's a lot to tell about this, but I see my time is running out. The question Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu (6/437) made in the main oral question motion is: I can give similar answers about the underground, as well as the neighborhoods of İstanbul Başakşehir, Dovetepe. Again, certain areas to be taken underground have been repeated in the oral question motion given by Mr. Süleyman Çelebi (6/442) in the original number. The same thing has been asked by a few of our fellow lawmakers with similar questions. I've just explained that Mr. Ali Halaman has been asked by Adana MP (6/526) in the main oral question motion of the province of Adana and its district. It's about the investments again in 2012, I just explained. I'll give them, hopefully, all the answers we offer in writing, on about eight pages. They asked what was done by Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu in the province of Kahramanmarash about the geothermal searches in the Eastern Mediterranean province, where he had spoken in a verbal question motion given by the deputy of Kahramanmarash (6/533) in the original number? Of course, in our two geothermal resource search licenses, no geothermal evidence has been found as part of the Eastern Mediterranean Geothermal Energy Search Project, conducted by the MTA General Directorate. Since there are no registered geothermal resource search licenses for MTA General Directorate in the Yumcham position, there is no study in this area. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu asked a question about the Kahramanmarash MP about the Kahramanmarash Organised Industry, about the price of electricity. Of course, this has an answer by the ECEDAS that is subject to certain laws and regulations. As of 2013, all consumers, except for the site, have been part of our legislation and legislation that as of 2015, all consumers will be free consumers. It is a basis for the end of existing subsidies among subscribers groups after the transition period, where consumers will have to endure the costs in the system. As of 2013, I think it's enough to say that cross-subsidies, or low-price applications for consumers, need an arrangement. Again, it is related to the district of Pazarcık, which Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu asked in the main oral question motion of the deputy of Kahramanmarash (6/538). Again, there's an energy-related demand for natural gas. In connection with natural gas, of course, the distribution company's ARMADADAN, Arsan Marash Natural Gas Distribution Company had talks about them, and, of course, the licensed company's written request is being requested, and they're applying to the EPDK. In the event of this request, investments in feasibility studies to be prepared by the licensed distribution company for the District of Marketcık will also be assessed in terms of technical and economic criteria. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/540) gave the main verbal question motion, again, referred to at the Guided transformer centre in the organised industry. On Sunday, we held a regional meeting at Kahramanmarash, where we had a road map at meetings with all the Kahramanmarash bureaucracy, which was the governor's head. The week before, in Malatya, last week, it was like the meetings we had in the area. The guided transformer center operates 154/34 kilowatts and 2x100 mvawatt transformers, and we continue to do so in a way that will not be a problem for supply security. At the same time, our General Directorate of TEİAS is monitoring the analysis of the loads related to this and considering the load increases as they should be. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu (6/541) mentioned in the main oral question motion of 6/541) the issue of natural gas connection to the needs of a thousand new businesses belonging to a small industrial site. I've talked to them. In a written response to this, they will report it to the gas distribution company, and the demand is related to the supply of natural gas, as well as to its involvement in investment plans in 2012, which we have discussed with our friends. As the 24th question, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu asked for information on several HES investments in the Andir's region in his main oral question motion (6/542) again. Have the transformers filled their capacity and are we going to continue our investments here? Of course, there is a Trafo Centre Television Project, and we are also monitoring the project's involvement in investments in 2012. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's oral question motion (6/544) in its original number is that there are production plants routed to the Caspian Havza Trafo Centre in Kahramanmarash province, and if we plan to open them permanently at the Caspian Havza Trafo Centre, then, of course, it has been tendered by TEİASI and by the end of 2012, the facilities will hopefully be completed. Again, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu has questions about the failure of electricity production since the completion of the body part of the Guided Dam, which he mentioned in the main oral question motion (6/573). Of course, here we met with our friends last week at a meeting with the Department of Water and Forests about the failures caused by TEMSAN (TMSAN). We've set our next schedule for the delay of HES electromechanic plumbing. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu gave the number 6/573 to the same question, which we explained in which calendars would be finished. Hopefully, on 1/4/2012, I'm hoping that the electromechanical part of this will be edited. They wanted Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu to consider the Afshin-Elbistan Termik Plant, which he mentioned in the main verbal question motion (6/575) with 21 HES and 12 HES investments that continue to be built, and a group directorate will be established here. We're not going to form a group manager here, but right now, we believe that the establishment of the relay director as a need is essential, and that's true. A relay manager will be added and Kahramanmarash will be provided for. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu was also concerned with whether he would be able to attach natural gas to the new businesses in organised industry in the main oral question motion (6/576). Here we see the demand for organised industry being handed over to ARMADADAS on 11 October 2011. The map of the region, the consumption points and values of businesses above quality, will be included in the investment programme to provide gas supplies. Mr. Alim Light (6/580) was asked in his oral question motion by the Greek Cypriot administration of the South Cypriot region to see what results in the search for natural gas and oil in the region, and how the seismic search with the Piri Reis ship results. I tried to explain it a little while ago, but I think it's safe to add that TPAO is combining this data with computer programs to make two-dimensional seismic searches on 3,680 square kilometers of data interpretable. On top of that, we didn't have any problems, and we were very satisfied with the data we received. Mr. Haluk Eyidoğan was asked if the oral question motion issued by İstanbul MP (6/587) related to geothermal sources would cause any problems. In this regard, these studies are being carried out when necessary in the world's geothermal fields, and are being carried out scientifically in our country, and are supported by businesses through academic studies. We don't think we're going to have any problems with that from that point of view. In the oral motion given by Mr. Alim Light (6/594) in its main number, it was also said, "What will the technical properties of the ship be?" We have also shared with the public how these are supplied from countries such as navigation, positioning systems, seismic energy production systems, data processing systems, engineering systems, compressors, deck equipment, helipads, many of which we, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, Dubai and Singapore, in many cases. Mr. Professor Dr. Alim Light was told about the terms of the ship that were taken in the oral question motion, which was again given by the principal number 6/594). I've said that again. They say Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/605) gave a verbal question in the original number, whether or not there was a meter in public buildings in the east and southeast. If so, please give us their names. In our assessments, no state-owned subscriptions have been detected against the subscription. There are electric counters. We're also seeing a partial change in the meter as a result of technical failure. Ankara MP Zühal Topcu asked questions in his main question motion (6/641) in the handicapped staff related to public institutions and organisations.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0036par0420	Mr. Secretary, your time has been completed, please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0035par0421	Mr. President, I have three more questions. If you'll excuse me, I'll finish it all, just to finish the whole thing. I'm now completing the 32nd question.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0036par0422	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0035par0423	As of the end of 2011, our ministry has 53,540 staff and 1,499 disabled staff, except TEDAS. Our work on the completion of all of this continues. Again, in the oral question motion given by Professor Dr. Zuhal Topcu (6/654), which pens are in the electric bills? What are the details in these pens? Of course, the net energy price, the loss of energy price, the meter reading price, the retail service price outside the meter reading, the distribution activity. The cost of distribution and transmission is also available. In addition, there are some taxes such as energy funding, municipal consumption tax, TRT share, value added tax. What are the numerals in these, especially in retail shops, about 58 per cent of the main energy price, except, as we mentioned earlier, retail sales rates, missing fugitive rates, rates related to reading, distribution, transmissions, VAT, TRT, BTV and energy funding. I'd say that's about 55 to 58 percent of the naked energy costs. In industry, I'd say around 63 per cent of the energy share is about 58 per cent in the industry and the AG share in the industry. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash (6/658) asks that the Afshin Termik plant be filtered in its chimneys. In 1984, 1985, 1986 and 1987, four separate units were activated, including electrostatic filters. Since then, it's had electrostatic filters, and that's what they've been doing, especially related to chimney gas treatment plants. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/673) asks if the steam that could occur in the cooling towers in the main oral question motion will be used to warm up the Afsshin district. Yeah, that's the right approach. So we've made our preparations, and we've made our decision in the draft programme of EUAS, in the 2012 investment programme, to convert from the Afşin Elbia B thermal plant to heat the regional heating system, and we'd like to make a feasibility report with TÜBİTAK MAM, and hopefully that's what we want that county to benefit from. Professor Doctor, Mr. Scholar Light...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0037par0429	Mr. Secretary, please... Thank you, because we're way out of time.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0035par0431	Well, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0037par0433	Now, Mr. Akar, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Illum and Mr. Aslanoglu have entered the system, but Mr. Akar and Mr. Karaahmetoglu, I can't promise you because you don't have a question proposal. Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0038par0435	Thank you, Mayor. The Minister's response to the oral question I asked -- the study, research, monitoring of triggered earthquakes related to geothermal fields -- is not satisfactory. In particular, deep geothermal injections and reincarnations for electricity production are being made in Turkey. Such large geothermal activities for electricity production produce a significant number of earthquake storms. We even see it in remote earthquake stations. However, companies that produce electricity in the region -- within our knowledge -- do not monitor these earthquake storms with special devices. This is a matter that is increasingly important in the world. Deep geothermal activity must be examined by nearby earthquake stations in this highly earthquake-like country. For this reason, regulations are being drawn up in Europe. I'd like to draw the attention of the High Council specifically to this matter. My answers are not satisfactory. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0039par0439	Thank you. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0040par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, thank you for answering many of the questions I've given you about Kahramanmarash. It's a city that produces heroics. In this context, the electricity and natural gas of Kahramanmarash is vital. Thank you very much for your work on this. However, about the air pollution in Afşin, Elbia, that region is uninhabitable. The filters that were installed earlier in the dates you mentioned have been disabled. I wish we could get filters back into our thermal plants as soon as possible, and that area would become habitable. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0041par0445	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0042par0447	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to thank Mr. Secretary for his answers. The fact that electricity and gas increases in particular are indexed to the increase in exchange prices may be accurate, but it's not enough. Then why didn't the citizen's salary get a raise at the same rate? If it's indexed at exchange prices, how will this citizen continue to use this electricity and natural gas at these prices? In particular, he stated that the study of the Piri Reis ship continued, that there was no problem, and that the data was satisfied. We've already asked what those satisfied data are. I think the public and the High Council should be more informed about this. I also think about when the new ship will be bought, where it will be bought, and what kind of ship it will have to be presented to the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0043par0452	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0044par0454	Mr. Secretary, you're being misled. There are 1 million inhabitants of the vineyard, 250,000 houses, and it is not simple to go to Sepaköy: First the Bahçievs will go to the city, and the Baharlievs will take the subway, and another van will go to Sepaköy with three vehicles! If we can't get three vehicles to a place of 1 million inhabitants, Mr. Minister, if we can't open an electric counter from one of the leases, then I'm truly sorry, Mr. Secretary. A county with a population of 1 million! If it can open TEDAS in a town of 3,000 people, I am deeply sorry that BEDAS is unable to open a centre in a town with a population of 1 million people. Some go to Bayrampaşa, some go to Sefaköy. It's not directly related to these places, you're right, if you say "gardenhouses." That's why they're deceiving you. Two, high tension lines: Mr. Secretary, people who live here are once at risk as health. They've always been given housing, not slums, they've been built, they've been built, they've been given housing. Here in Saadededere, Basakşehir, Dovetepe, and Esenyurt are all residents. These people are at risk. Therefore, this high tension must be lifted, Mr. Secretary. I offer once again your attention.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0043par0456	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Sesame, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0045par0458	Mr. Secretary, I want to thank you for your answers to our questions, but I want to stress that it's a clear reality that the private sector has not been able to obtain this natural gas by making a deal rather than 6 billion cubic metres of natural gas, especially after the Western line was canceled. You may not have had the opportunity to explain this matter in detail, perhaps due to the time shortage, but as the Energy Commission, it is a clear reality when it comes to the fact that we need more information about this and that both the public and the Parliament need to be enlightened about it, especially in the recent winter conditions, especially the energy needs for failures in the power plants. A second urgent issue: in connection with the lines that will move 17 wind power plants to the national network at the point of production in the Izmir Cesme peninsula, in connection with the construction of the line of the entrepreneurs who have done this work, the tender has been blocked, even though they have given TİASŞ the requested letter of collateral and 10 per cent down payment, and these lines cannot be made in any way to the national network. I'm asking you to answer why this tender has been blocked, why this tender can't be made, and when these entrepreneurs in Izmir will open their way for access to the national network in connection with the electricity produced by these entrepreneurs. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0046par0461	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, will you make a statement?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0047par0463	Yes, I will.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0046par0464	On the stand.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0047par0465	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we first felt the need to give you an answer again regarding the question of Professor Dr. Haluk Eyidogan. Now, of course, setting up seismic networks in geothermal fields using micro-symmics, micro-sysmlic activity, microquakes observation, monitoring of geothermal reservoirs, monitoring the permeability of the reservoir, and tracking the flow that's being printed back into the reservoir, and one of the methods used for etc. These studies can be implemented during the operation, as well as monitoring continuous temperature, pressure, chemical parameters to ensure sustainable production and backstroke. In our country, these studies are being carried out at the right time in geothermal fields in the world, with scientific purpose, with universities and academic studies -- which you are among them -- and in the way the operators have done. For example, there are two power plants with 7.95 and 9.5 megawatts in the Aydın Salavat geothermal field. This work is being carried out in order to monitor where the water flow, which has been reprinted by the operator, has gone. I, of course, had to answer 34 of the 37 questions in about 32 minutes. There's enough information on them to talk about each of them for 30 minutes. In Aydın Germencik -- you know, actually one of the world's most distinguished projects -- a 48.5 megawatt geothermal plant was installed there, and they continue to work without any problems with reincarnation. As you know, the MTA will also update the earthquake maps at the moment. In the last 98 years, we know that about 15,000 active fault lines were around 25,000 in recent studies. So, we'll continue our delicate work on this. Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, our heromarash MP... of course we have to work for Maraş and all our provinces. Like I said, we've had the district meeting there, and we've discussed a lot of things, so hold on to the transmission lines until we get to the distribution lines. Of course, there is a happy occasion in Maraş. Production is going very seriously both in industry and in organised industry, and there's a great demand for power. Each one of them brings joy to our country, especially to Maras. Afşin Elbistan -- in particular, I went, I saw -- the legal proceedings of the network were now completed and reached a point with the company that had the right to an acquish. They will share our sensitivity to building a new plant and rehabilitating all chimney gases, as well as our agreement. As you know, the case against our farmers, peasants, and citizens has resulted in a lawsuit against the EUAS, and has been paid by 21 million TL. This shows that we all have respect for the law, and it's obvious that there was a hitch in those chimney gas analysis, and I instructed my friends to fix it. Mr. Professor Dr. Scholar Light said, "Can only be explained with these raises?" Now, dear friends, the price increases of raw oil and natural gas have gone differently than the mechanism within Turkey, which has now come from $22/varil to $111. Now, it's almost a five-fold increase, five stories, 500 percent increase. We didn't put it at 500 percent, of course he had a formulation, but I mentioned the parity at exchange prices. In February 2009, the parite was 1,45,45, but our current destination was 1,84-1,86, even 1,88. In the interest of our citizens, we're trying to evaluate all the pricing, the cost of the energy sector in that way, but as raw oil increases, they don't do it by looking at the increase in salary here, they have their own market, that's how it goes. It's about Piri Reis, and if you'll excuse me, then I'd like to give you a little bit more information, because Piri Reis has been framed in a way that he doesn't deserve, my friends. You may say that this is worthless only in Turkey's possession, but this was used especially in the seismics of BP (BP) and Gazprom (Gasprom), especially in the southern currents, as one of three ships. So they did that by paying attention to the data. I'd like to give you some details on that. I'd like to tell you what kind of ship we're designing, what kind of study we're doing about it. Now, of course, in the area of the permit, the area in which the permit was claimed south of the island, but it actually represents the northern parts of the drilling area. These data have been evaluated by TPAO, and there are three major stages of seismic work in it. The first is that seismic data collection and direct work conducted in the field are based on the process, meaning, and interpretation of seismic data with computer programs in the second phase. In the third phase, depending on a certain time period, the TPAO General Directorate is able to interpret data as well as data collected, continuing in the process of processing data on computer programs. Of course, as far as external factors go, if Piri Reis had any problems, he didn't have any problems. So, what are we aiming at? We are a study of what we call a new seismic ship, a three-dimensional, two-dimensional seismic data collection, which is 80 to 110 metres long, 20 to 30 metres wide, 6 to 10 meters wide, with 2B and 3B convantional seismic data collections, and many more signal receiver cables, along with what we call a six-mile line. This is also related to other technical and support equipment that should be on board, including navigation and positioning systems, seismic energy production systems and equipment, seismic system recordings and equipment, data processing systems equipment, engineering systems and equipment, electrical systems and equipment, compressors, deck equipment, food services, helicopter runways. In what countries are they produced? In countries such as Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, Dubai, Singapore, the construction and production of the ship can also be done in this sense, according to its conditions and technology. Another question is what Mr. Aslanoglu said. Yes, there are many studies of distribution services, particularly about subscriber information management systems or customer service -- my friends, I'll say this again -- but it's related to high tension lines, in 1964, in 68, in 69, in 69, they've been nationalized, built from 73 to 74 -- high tension lines, so to speak, on the highways of that country. Any building under these, for one reason or another, Mr. Aslanoglu, is not possible. If it's being done, I'd say it's in violation of the zoning and registration.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0048par0477	Minister, please collect your words.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0047par0478	Mr. Eyiborn has also requested a written answer. Of course, I'll give it to them in writing. There's a 6 billion cubic metres of gas deal that ended in the contract period 31/12/2011, before the AK PARTI governments. We asked the private sector to sign a contract on the grounds that the discounts we asked for were not made, and again on the grounds of Law 4646. Now, could the private sector make it cheaper or not? According to us, he makes cheaper contracts, but for one reason or another, after a long period of negotiation, the Gazprom company couldn't agree on these contracts with the private sector. What we wanted was... three years ago, five years ago, on the western line, the amount of gas flowed the same way. At times, I said in public statements that I had shared with the public: "There will be gas flowing from this western line, whether by public hand or by contract, in some way, by the hand of the contract, by means of a letter; the supply security of natural gas in response to Turkey's growth will be provided. As a result, natural gas flows, there are no disruptions there, but it also included contracts of 3.1 billion cubic metres of gas. We, BOTAS, are not going to make a new public contract. So we're not going to get a new contract from the west line, I believe these contracts will continue with the private sector hand. Private sector contracts will meet at a price one way or another. And that price has to be lower than the public's price right now. I believe that's what's going to happen, and I believe that's what's going to happen. The private sector, which companies do... have sometimes been accused of: have you, A, B, C, addressed this in any way? Dear friends, we have no involvement in this. Companies go, 26 firms apply, and those firms, as a result of their application, make the EPDK license agreement with whoever brings in contracts. As a result, Turkey will enter the pool and the total amount of gas will be increased and the price will be cheaper. That is our goal, and in this three-month period of negotiations, Turkey has received a discount according to the previous contract and has now put natural gas into use in Turkey at a lower price. Not only does it contain the western line, it also contains the Blue Stream.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0049par0482	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0047par0483	Last question, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0049par0484	Please, Mr. Secretary, a brief statement...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0047par0485	It's about the 17 Rees, which Mr. Sesam has asked about: I say at Tevafuken, today it's 14 o'clock. At 00, we had a meeting with the members of the Recessors with about 40 investors. I came here from that meeting. Of course, we had investors from Cesme, and from Alaçat. Their problems with radar systems in particular have been solved, you know, and their problems with transmission lines will of course be solved, and we will only have 11,000 megawatts of wind powered and activated by 2015. I salute your delegation with all these thoughts and feelings. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0049par0488	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question motions have been answered. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. Among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan, Professor Ahmet Yesevi, we will resume discussions between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Historical Republic of Turkey on October 22, 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where we are left to discuss the adoption of the Protocol on the implementation of the Turkish-Kazak University of Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 23/12/2011 historic and 6262 Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark Law, which has been placed in the 2nd order of the agenda, and the Talks of the Plan and the Budget Commission, which shall be held by the President of Article 89th and 104th Amendments of the Constitution. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 122 rows. Members of parliament, the 23/12/2011 Law of the Retired Ark of the Republic of Turkey, 6262, and the 16th Amendment to some Laws have been sent back to our presidency, along with the grounds shown in this matter, to meet again with the President. "If part of the President is not eligible, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can only discuss things that are inappropriate," the second statement of Article 89 of the Constitution said. In the latest joke of the Article 81 of the Interior Charter, "It can be decided that we will not meet with the General Assembly before the talks of the laws that were sent back to the Grand Assembly of Turkey, which are not partially appropriate and that they will be met again. In this case, there is only talks about improper substances. The vote of the entire law must be taken." Its provisions are in place. According to these provisions, it is up to the General Assembly to discuss all of the Law sent back, or only its articles that are not acceptable to the President. For these reasons, I submit to the approval of the General Assembly of the 16th Article of the Law which is not only acceptable to the President: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. SOME OF THE LAWS OF THE TURKEY REPUBLIC The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 16-5510. "The 42% of this Law is applied at 45% until a new legal arrangement is made. For any reason, those who have served in the third part of Article 43 of the Law before the date of the execution of this clause, and those who have ended their duties, the Grand National Assembly, the National Assembly, the Republic Senate, the House of Representatives and the Chiefs of the Council of Counsellors, will also benefit from the sentence of Article 43 of the Law, starting at the beginning of the period of the period of which this clause was adopted. As of the date when this clause is in effect, the mandate of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and those who have served as members of the legislature before the end of its mandate or who have been appointed to the foreign ministry are not required for a period of two years in the first sentence of the same clause, when pensioners are eligible according to Article 43 of this law. (x) 122 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. (xx) The first talks of the Law took place in the 45th Union, dated 22/12/2011. Although this clause has ended its foreign ministry duties with the membership of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey before its implementation, pensions and institutional compensations from those who are unable to obtain disability, old age or pension months, the application of the first clause of the 4th amendment (c) shall be granted by those who continue to have an insurance relationship or by those who need to establish an insurance relationship within the scope of this law within a period of 60 days, starting with the application of the Union of Turkey's 4th Amendment, starting with its application period. This clause is based on no repayment and no reversible rights can be demanded." Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0050par0519	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Law Proposal 122 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. We will also vote the same way about this proposal that we used as a party, because when we came to social justice, social equality in Turkey -- the Ministry also drafted the principle law, the situation of pensioners, the determination of minimum wage, the injustice of all of this has taken place, in social areas, in economic areas, in every area. But there is an injustice that hurts your heart, shames your humanity. The decision of Hrant Dink was announced today. In Hrant Dink's decision, after five years of trial as a criminal lawyer who served over 30 years of international law, after five years of trial, there's no organization, there's no enforcer, there's no government direction, there's no what, there's nothing to say, there's only one of the 19 defendants and just one of them gets to clean up all the murders. Hrant Dink was no ordinary man in our country. When we look at the statements made after Hrant Dink's decision today, you'll hear the words that make all of us, the Assembly, all of the MPs think. What are they saying? It's been five years. We've been made fun of for five years, and it turns out they saved the big wave for last. Three or five ignorant children have committed such a murder. Then it turned out that this decision had never changed a tradition, that the state had committed political murder, and that some of its citizens had a tradition of making others. Those who were deeply disturbed by the fact that this government was called the killer, the bomber of its people - the assassin - did nothing to rid the state of these adjectives and threw away a great opportunity. To say no to such murders again, this case was a unique opportunity for Turkey and the world, Turkey had been condemned in the European Court of Human Rights, but today we find that those who were targeted yesterday and those who were in power formed alliances with those who left themselves behind. In history, this tradition was first able to move on by eating and destroying its interim allies. A first page closed today. It's a file on a comedy that ends at this stage, and it's all just beginning. Again, in front of the court today, in front of the court of special authority, in front of these extraordinary courts, these courts, which do not distribute justice, these courts that arrest lawmakers, these lawmakers, these courts that continue to arrest politicians, the mayors, the elected mayors, those who judge the members of the organization for nothing, these courts that are being held before the government's political opponents, saying that this decision is the state's decision before the verdict. Those who decided to take Hrant (Hrant) from us five years ago with their security, with their intelligence, with their judgment, with their media, with their government, with their opposition, will now make another decision in the palaces of justice. This case isn't over until we say it's over. Here, we've offered laws for the closure of these special criminal courts. Turkey's fate wasn't Turkey's future, its sovereignty courts, its court of law, martial law courts, state security courts, private criminal courts and political judgment and injustice and discrimination and discrimination in this country. Look, even the prosecutor rebelled, that's what they call it. You'll see all of this tomorrow. But the same justice, the prosecutors of the same court, the same court, has issued a warrant to search the house of Leyla Zana. It is said that there is no declaration of Leila Zana. All the public knows of the Prime Minister's three homes; there is in Skopje; there is in Pursaks, there is in the Prime Minister's residence. Did he report all three to the Chief? How many chiefs will you give your human address to? He tells one, one, one, one official report. Well, doesn't the Prime Minister live in the Prime Minister's residence? Will the police go and raid it, or will the Pursaks raid it, or will they raid it? Then, they arrest 32 of our dead Orhan Doğan's house and leave him, our lawmakers, our former MP, the former party presidents, the meeting notes the Justice Minister read on the same day, the meeting notes the General Staff reads on the same day, and ask one question in the police and prosecutor's office yesterday: have you read these interview notes? The politician's duty is to read and listen to the opinions of every actor and element that affects politics in Turkey. Now the special criminal courts that created an organization here have not found an organization in the Hrant Dink case, they haven't found the instigators, they haven't found the attackers, they haven't found the bodyguards, their phone records haven't been handed over, and they've all been sentenced to one person, each of them released, acquitted, and released. What age do we live in? We live in the 21st century. Don't distribute these purple pamphlets, there's no fair trial, there's a European Convention on Human Rights, there's 90th Amendments, there's no internal law, there's no argument, there's no defense, there's no justice. That's not how justice works, people. Do you know how justice works? Are you familiar with the Evolution Alatas, who succumbed to this cancer? The writer, the journalist, and he left us two years ago. A search warrant was issued for him as founder of the Ivy League in the TK case, and he left us two years ago. Well, we have these Ivy League -- where Diyarbakır MPs -- there are AKP people, there are friends from CHP who are now MPs, there are BDP, they've all formed together, businessmen, well-known intellectuals, lawyers, occupational institutions. Isn't that rude? Now, isn't it cruel to remove the decision to search the dead person's home from the ACK? What kind of justice is that, my friends? How is that understanding, how does it work? KCK is the operation to put Kurds in prison. (K) Kurds are operas-yon to put in prison. That's what it's called. After that, you go to the European court. Do you know how many convictions you received today? None of you deserve what you're paid, and you shouldn't be paid at all. You come in here, you raise your hands and leave.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0051par0531	It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0050par0532	Look, I'll be honest with you, there's been a conviction in five cases today, out of freedom of faith, out of freedom of thought. Look, it's all out. He's out of freedom of religion, and they've all been convicted. Do you know that 15 skulls were found at the headquarters of JITEM? Do you find it? Doesn't it shake you, shake your humanity, these bones, these skulls? You know, the people who killed Moses Anter were sitting at that JITEM center. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That JITEM center was at the center of Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0052par0536	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0050par0537	Your name is justice, and may God give you justice. I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0053par0540	He'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0054par0541	Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Article. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0055par0544	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Plan and Budget Commission Report, with the Constitutional Parliamentary Committee on Law Number 122 in question. On this occasion, I salute you all. According to Article 89 and 104 of the Constitution, the Constitution has been sent back to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in accordance with Article 89 and 104. On the presidential statement, the 16th article renegotiated by the Plan and Budget Commission was adopted as 45 per cent by AKP lawmakers' proposals and votes, until a new legal arrangement of 42 per cent of the main 42% of the pension for members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and those serving as foreign ministers or for those whose duties have ended for any reason has been determined. According to the latest situation, an inequality between the pensions of former and new lawmakers is being lifted as a result of regulations made in Law 6262. The full pension is still being paid to lawmakers and pensioners. The pension, at least after an increase in inflation levels in 2012, is at the same level as the pension that will be determined with this Law, and for those with more years of service, the law will be lower than that month. It is envisioned to extend the scope of the two-year parliamentary mandate for lawmakers, which is in the pension law and has been subject to this law, and to apply to everyone, regardless of the status of previous insurance. In the current practice, those who had worked for two years in the duties envisioned during the office of civil service were able to benefit from the rights of the parliament as of the first month when the MP was elected. From now on, everyone will have a two-year requirement. The third joke in the article we're talking about is that public compensation has already served two years in office and has completed pension requirements in June 2011, and there are no conditions for a two-year parliamentary mandate for those elected to parliament on the basis of the current legislation. Those who have retired due to SEC and BUG-KUR services and have been elected MPs in the June 2011 elections will have to serve two years to receive their pension, and the two-year term will begin from the date of the execution of this Law. It is beneficial to examine this situation for reasons that are not in their hands. As the National Movement Party, we maintain exactly our views on our opposition to the text adopted by Plan and Budget Commission, which is the basis of Law 6262. Because with this law, the majority of those who have been involved in the Retirement Ark in the past have been blocked, and those who have been able to get pensions are expected to receive very small payments. Green card holders are prevented from receiving services from private health services from people of sixty-five-year-olds, needy, disabled people and temporary village rangers. Although the monthly bonding of the earthquake is positive, it does not include the events that occurred before 2011 and any further earthquakes or natural disasters that could have occurred. The administrative fines in the Employment Law are being increased. An additional financial burden is being brought to the insurance holders and widows and orphans, with 3 Turkish liras for medicines up to three boxes in their prescriptions, 1 Turkish lira for each bottle of medicine, and an additional turnout share in the treatment. I would like to rephrase our full opposition to these regulations as the National Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, the AKP governments have promised for years that injustice and inequality between pensions would be resolved, but our pensioners, widows and orphans have always been frustrated, their expectations have failed, their hopes and dreams have been destroyed. In 2009, the AKP government announced that they had put it on the shelf on the grounds that it could not be removed, and in the June 2011 general elections, the pensioners had promised to do so again, but recently the pensioners had been given hope, but its coverage was also limited, and its payments were announced that they would be paid in 2013. Following the Council of Ministers meeting yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister and Government Speaker Bkent Arinc announced that the organisation of initiative was accepted, that pensioners would receive 75 per cent of the wealth share, that the pensions of 1 million 913,000 pensioners would increase, and the increases would reflect on pensions between 10 and 290 lira. Basically, all SSC and BUG-KUR pensioners have a problem with attitude. From 1978 to 2000, a system was implemented for SSC, BUG-KUR, and for civil servants, with an officer's salary coefficient. Since 2000, the use of the officer's salary coefficient in calculating the pensions of SSC and BUG-KUR employees has been terminated, so the more different pensions they've been retired from the same years, the more different pensions they've had. In addition, both in 1997 and 2003, BUG-KUR were brought in to buy digits and people were sold steps by making them pay back the digits, but when it comes to pensions, the difference in steps have been taken in advance, but those who have bought steps in the past years have also received a very low figure monthly from the pension that they should have received. According to the government's statement, some of the SEC pensioners who retired only before 2000 will be adopted. As of October 2011, only 5 million, 727,000 retired widows and orphans from the USSR will be able to benefit from this arrangement. The AKP government's advocacy is not covered by BUG-KUR pensioners. In total, none of the 4,150,000 BUG-KUR pensioners will benefit from this arrangement, including 2,345 thousand tradesmen BUG-KUR, 1,811,000 agricultural pensioners. BUG-KUR pensioners are being treated unfairly. In 1999, the pension account for the SEC and the BUG-KURL was changed, and the rate of growth of pensions has been calculated by considering the TUFE rate of pensions and the rate of growth. In its monthly account, TÜFE and its rate of growth have been considered, while pensions are only expected to be considered by TUFE. The practice, after 1/10/2008, envisions a complete collapse in pensions. Because instead of 100 per cent of the GDP growth rate, 30 per cent of the GDP has been envisioned, so the prosperity share has been severely reduced, and the pensioner's pension rate has been continued to increase by just the TUFE rate, instead of 100 per cent of the GDP growth rate. The arrangement said to have been adopted by the Council of Ministers does not include this inequality at all. Thus, the arrangement for the snake story has been announced over the years, and will be a narrow, comprehensive arrangement to save the day. A partial inequality is being compensated. In the coming years, there will be much greater inequality between pensions, and the issue of initiative will remain on the agenda. I wish the offer to be good again, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0056par0562	Thank you, Mr. Kalayci. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article, Bulent Kuşoglu is Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0057par0566	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. On this day when we buried Mr. Rauf Denktas, the president of Northern Cyprus, I offer my condolences to his family, the people of Cyprus, and the Turkish nation, and ask for God's mercy. In his health, I had the honor of knowing Mr. Denktas, and I knew him; he was a man of great respect and dignity. Even at one time in Turkey, when the power tried to neutralize him, to restore his dignity, he knew how to maintain his dignity. ▪ A very important concept, my dear friends. Because there are very important concepts in the concept of virtue, honor, honesty, and strength; they are made up of them. ▪ It is also a very important concept for Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In general, as lawmakers, we have problems with the situation. One by one, thank God, we don't have a problem with our reputation, but I'm afraid there's a big problem with the general concept of the people. There's a lot of reasons for that, but the most important reason is, unfortunately, the MP's monthlys. We're having a problem with reputation due to several parliamentary pensions or parliamentary pensions, which are often on the agenda. You know, last week, the week before that, a few weeks ago, we've been dealing with this decree that changed the number 666. Last week's monthly agenda of the TOKI president came up, many of you didn't even notice. There has been a loss of rights by TOKI presidents and vice presidents because the state's top salary holders, such as the Secretary General or the president of the presidency, have been matched to their monthly group. And to a significant extent, 40 percent and 50 percent of her salary dropped, and no one even noticed. The press, the media didn't do anything about it, it's been passed. But when it comes to the MP, everyone's sensitive about the MPs, and everyone sees, unfortunately, the problem with that is as small as a pinhead. Because the legislature is a very important seat for citizens, and it's very important for the public, so of course we all have to care. It's also a community-organized mission, as well as a parliamentary position. You know the Article 86 of the Constitution, according to Article 86 of the Constitution, lawmakers must have a law, lawmakers must have a law. This is a situation that will remove the burden, and the Constitution has ordered its status, as well as its rights. So we have to make a law based on this ruling, that's what we have to do, that's what we said in the first place. As lawmakers, we need to get rid of a law by the Constitution and this burden on the reputation I just mentioned, that's the problem. Now that we're talking about this, we need to do a study on this, and we need to get this over with. Now, the political parties of democracy are essential. Yes, the political parties of democracy are indispensable, but what are the MPs? Lawmakers are the essential element of political parties, as well as MPs are the essential element of democracy. Shouldn't we all do a study on the state of the MPs that cares about the issue? It's done for political service, and the service is done through the legislature, and in the first place, it needs to be dealt with. Lawmakers, as you all know, we work as a social psychology center, there are a lot of people who come from a lot of different parts of Turkey by evening, who share their problems with us, who share them with us. You've all been through a lot of trouble, you've been spending, we've got problems, we've got problems. We have a lot of problems, from representation to representation, from representation to representation to representation in any community, until we're represented in the same way, up to the fee. So we think that we should adopt a law according to Article 86, and by this law, we should deal with these problems, these troubling issues as parties. No one came here to be rich, no one became a congressman to get rich, let me be a member of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, let me be a member of the National Assembly of Turkey, and let me continue my trade with the power I have acquired from there in a stronger way. But if there are those who say so, I refer them to Allah. However, it is a profession that must be evaluated primarily by dignity, which should be considered by its work. It's hard work, the price of the MP's salary, the price of his work is not easy to appreciate. And we, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, have a hard time doing that, and it's not easy, but there's no point in bringing up the law that changes our own months, and there's no point in putting our reputation on the line in public opinion, precious deputies, that we shouldn't do that. I wish we could all do this honorary duty together, but since we're from the community, it doesn't make much sense to do it. Whatever it is, whatever it is, we think it should be done, it should be paid. Last time this came up, I was among the lawmakers who voted for rejection, and because I gave this vote of rejection, it was interpreted in some media as a hero. You're not supposed to be a hero, and I don't want to be a hero for something like that, but aren't you going to take that money? You'll get it. I don't want to meet words like that. These are words that ruin all of our reputations; they are not true, they are not beautiful; they are not to be encountered. It is not possible for us to ignore the public response. Look, I was going to make a speech about it, and there were similar reactions from the judge. They said, "You're posting the President for the month." If there is a division of men in a country, if legislation, executives and judges have different differences of power, if these men are working differently, then the state's salary is more likely to be tied to the presidency for a month, the state's head for a month. There have been reactions. I agree, and it really should be. Why would he be tied up for a month by the top bureaucrat, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, at the top of the executive staff? It's the truth. Also, before this law was passed, my dear friends, some of the problems have been resolved. For example, with this law, we are also resolving the differences between the presidents of the former Turkish Grand National Assembly, but the question is, Mr. Minister, perhaps he can give us some information about him: we have former presidents who have filed a lawsuit, they have won the case, they are about to win the case, and they are about to win the case in the upper court, and they're going to get past compensation. What will be done about them? We'd appreciate it if you could give us some information. There are many such problems. These were not discussed in very specific terms in the commission. There's trouble. My dear friends, I'm sure you're familiar with a ratio of maddi deprivation. The rate of financial deprivation is that you don't want things and you don't get them because of financial hardship. According to TÜİK data, the rate of financial deprivation in Turkey is 63.5%. And every year, it goes up. So 45 million of our citizens live within the limits of financial deprivation. Now, under the circumstances, it's obviously wrong for us to discuss these issues, to bring it up every once in a while. That's what we want to say. For him, a law must be passed, a law to be passed, a matter to be taken care of. We've been working on these fees for three weeks.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0058par0583	You speak for the group?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0057par0584	I speak for the group, and I agree personally, and I believe I'm telling the truth. I assume you agree with me.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0059par0586	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0057par0587	As a result, my dear friends, the matter has cost public opinion. I suggest we all make this law together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0059par0590	Ekrem Çelebi, Ağrı MP, who has asked for the EC PARTY Group to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0060par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr Rauf Denktas, former President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, who passed away last weekend, wishes His Holiness God's mercy and my condolences to his grieving family. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the First Amendment to some Laws under the First Amendment Act (1/536) of Turkey's Retirement Ark Act (1/536). I hereby salute your high council. On 23/12/2011, the 6262 Turkish Republic Retirement Ark Law, adopted by the Grand National Assembly General Assembly of Turkey, was sent back to the President for a renegotiated meeting on 6/1/2012. The 16th article of the law envisioned the implementation of the monthly rate to be paid to foreign ministers and members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly by 60 per cent by 2020. However, as a result of talks on the Plan and Budget Commission on 6/1/2012, the rate has been set at 45 per cent. The lower limit of the pensions of MPs and foreign ministers, organised under Article 43 of Law No. 5510, will be paid on the basis of 45 per cent of the President's pension, not 42 per cent, until a new legal arrangement is made. This change was made by consideration of the president's grounds for sending him back. However, it has been concluded that retired lawmakers will not be able to receive representation compensation if they actively become MPs. In this case, the pension of a retired national member has been determined at the same rate, regardless of whether or not he is active, so the differences between pensions have been resolved. A pension in the new system depends on certain conditions. I want to say this, especially by opening a parentheses here, especially in citizens, election districts, or outside the press. After only two years as a member of parliament, the pension of a pension member of parliament was tied without a request. A information such as this is also in the press. In society, it is also useful to correct the situation that causes misunderstanding. It is possible for members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and those in office of the ministry to fill the period of age and service required by the law, Law 5435. As such, lawmakers and other public officials, soldiers, civilians, judges, prosecutors, are the same system of pensions as lawmakers. I'd especially like to present this to the High Council. On the other hand, according to the text adopted by the Plan and Budget Commission, the law will be exempted from the condition of those who have been paid by law as of the date of pensions, those who have continued to be a member of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, those who have already completed their membership duties, and those who have been assigned to the foreign ministry for the past two years, and those who have been assigned to the ministry will be exempted from the condition of paying for the institution in exchange for their pension. As a result, the pension rate of those who have been elected from 23rd and previous times will be raised from 1/1/2012 on March 2012 to the first time, as of 1/1/2012. In addition, the provisions may be adopted on those who could not be elected or nominated at the end of the 24th term, with Article 12. According to Article 5510 added to Act 5510, it is possible that those who are appointed foreign ministers with members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be able to meet the Turkish Grand National Assembly budget on the basis of their bonuses for four years, according to Law 5510, which, according to Law No. 5510, does not qualify for pension or disability. However, the primordial gain of insurance premiums for employees in a job as part of their own insurance status is envisioned by the Turkish Grand National Assembly budget for the bonus or the gap that arises based on the prime income of the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. In addition to these regulations, the National Assembly, the Republic Senate, the House of Representatives and the Council of Counsellors, will be paid by 75 per cent of the presidency's monthly salary, according to this, which will not be able to benefit from the regulations which have been arranged in different terms with Article 5510, which determines the amount of pension for those in office of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0061par0604	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, who has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0062par0608	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, as your friends have expressed earlier, lawmakers, we all have a very fundamental problem: a matter of reputation in the eyes of our people, whose name we represent. I mean, I'm sorry to say that the lawmakers, elected by the vote of the nation, who came here and were assigned to establish law and control in the name of the nation, are having a hard time defending themselves in the eyes of the people, and they're in trouble. This isn't the right thing to do. We need to end this. There's no way that we can bring dignity to Turkey's Grand National Assembly without giving credit to its MP, give credit to the political institution, and therefore make sure that what we're doing here, the law that we're building here, contributes to the sense of justice. But believe me, we have some very old lawmakers here, and we, you know, we've been filling our 10th years, we've had friends who've been acting as legislators for 20 years, and we know the history of this job -- we talk about it all the time -- in the middle of the night, in the middle of the night, in the middle of the night, in the middle of the night, in the middle of the night, in order to make an effort to adjust the salaries of lawmakers' pensions. So, as a result, we're setting up the ground in a way that's in the citizen's best interest. However, Article 86 of the Constitution states that the autonomy rights of the MPs are regulated by law. The Turkish Parliament, which establishes law for every part of the community, cannot establish a law for the rights of its MPs. This promise is to political power.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0063par0610	You know what we've been through, Mr. Mehmet.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0062par0611	Dear friends, I also promise the previous powers. Now, there's been an arrangement with very righteous demands and a consensus. Unlike earlier this period, the Speaker of Parliament said, "I will stand behind the agreement you will create. I will defend it." That was a very important opportunity and advantage. We've never been able to provide that before. Indeed, bureaucracy, the technocrats among us, our friends who knew about it, made an arrangement, reasonable or unreasonable, but necessary. As a result, here, by our decision again, by signing our friends who represent our groups on the Court, by standing behind him, we made this arrangement, but then all hell broke loose. Everyone has developed a motive, and we've brought wood through some MPs, lawmakers, to blame the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the political institution. Dear friends, that's not true. Of course, first of all, I respect political power, the government -- I mean, Mr. Prime Minister's sensitivity, sensitivity, but -- as power, if you believe that this is the right thing as a numerical majority, if you believe that this is the right thing to do, you'd have to bring it here and get it out of here without looking for a consensus, but unfortunately, everyone, a game, three games, five games, behind the word. Look, as the National Movement Party, we have insisted from the beginning that we, Mr. Secretary, know that our friends know that we will stand by the agreement that will occur, that we will not object. And then there was a consensus. And then we were really worried that this agreement would turn out to be gum in the mouth of the press and that the House would be blamed on it. It was impossible to ignore public pressure, public reactions. I'll tell you what our vote is. We don't want this law...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0064par0616	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0062par0617	... No. We said it in the first place; we had opposition, we said no.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0065par0618	It's not the motions, it's true.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0062par0619	But come on, let's make the arrangements. According to the Constitution of 86...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0066par0620	Mr. Shandır, please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0062par0621	...let's turn the rights of the people's rights into a law. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0066par0623	The person who asked for a personal word on the matter is Mr. Hüseyin Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0067par0626	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish God's mercy to our President Rauf Denktas of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, who received the mercy of Hakk (Hakk) today, and to his family's. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 16th article of the Law of Dair since December 23, 2011, and on the Law of the Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey, 6262, and on the amendment of some Laws. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, there have been extensive regulations on the social security system, including paying pensions to those who have served under the Law under the Law on Retirement Number 5434 in the past, including the general health insurance system of the owners of green card holders, eliminating the victims of the earthquake in the Kütahya and Van provinces, and the reduction of the premiums paid by foreign national students in order to be included in the general health insurance system. In addition, a amendment to Article 86 (Episode 86) of the Constitution in 2001 has been envisioned by law that the funds, roads and pensions of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be organised, but no legal regulations have been made regarding the funds, travel and pensions of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from 2001 until now. As a provision for the pensions of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey due to regulations concerning social security and pension system in general, the issue was intended to be resolved, even though it was added to the law and delayed. As it is known, the political institution is a long-term process, and it is important to maintain the dignity of lawmakers in the process. In addition to maintaining the dignity of lawmakers, a number of social responsibilities continue after leaving the post as part of the social position of lawmakers. Given these grounds, it is imperative that a regulation on the rights of lawmakers and pensioners be considered. Mr. President, in accordance with the issues in Article 86 of the Constitution, it is intended to address the differences in the pensions of members of the Grand National Assembly and foreign ministers in the matter of pensions. The pensions of lawmakers are calculated by regarding past insurance, but they are paid by several different pensions in practice. Social Security and General Health Insurance Act 5510 and the old system have changed from the former system to a completely different monthly computational method, but this system has increased the difference between parliamentary pensions and pensions that have already been paid. Under the new system brought in by Law 6262, a temporary amendment to Law 5510 could be added and thus possible to prevent any difficulties possible in implementing it, in order to clarify the condition that lawmakers who are currently lawmakers will be granted a pension for two years. In addition, it has been clear that due to the lack of the necessary conditions for the pension commitment, lawmakers who have failed to receive pensions will be accepted as the date of the general elections of the start date, as well as that of those who have not earned a pension from active lawmakers, should be paid by the law, not from the date of its implementation. Mr. President, it has been seen in the regulation that 42% of the law, which is based on the calculation of the pension, shall be applied at 45 per cent until a new legal arrangement is carried out, shall be implemented in the interim Article 5510, under Article 43 of the Law. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish you good luck and good luck in the name of our country, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0068par0637	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Mr. Durmaz, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0069par0639	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary through you. Is it possible that the Parliament, who cannot speak its own law, can speak the law of the citizen? Should there be a difference in status between lawmakers? What good is it to wait two more years without considering the fact that we've earned our pension by paying a premium of twenty-nine years? Who's going to act on the MPs? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0070par0646	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0071par0648	Mr. Secretary, I'm here to inform you that the SEC and BUG-KUR pensioners...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0072par0649	Thank you. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a responsibility to protect both our nation and its own reputation. I don't think there's any concern about protecting our nation's reputation. That's why we're all here. That's why we work so hard. If you're referring to the process of our own reputation, about the pensions of the retired MP, about that process, we've all lived here together. There can be no understanding of such an approach as this: Let someone make an arrangement, and let my means be improved. Political party groups are clear on this issue. There's got to be a consensus and there's four groups here, four groups, if they decide anything, they'll be here and they'll be able to explain it, they'll have to be shared with the public, because we're all in public, we're all in public. I don't think there's any need to blame anyone else for that.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0073par0651	No charges.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0072par0652	There's no need to bring it up to any of the reputation debates, because we've all lived here together. Who said what, who said what, then what, we went through it together. That's not what I'm saying to blame anyone for.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0073par0653	Is it a crime to be from the SEC, Minister?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0072par0654	Is there a status difference? There's already been a study here to carry out the status difference and attitude. As you know, there was a difference between our friends who came to Parliament in 4/A and 4/B, and our friends who were in Parliament and were not here, retired and currently not in Parliament. Likewise, there was a difference between the presidents of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The difference between this arrangement and the Speakers of Parliament has been resolved. Here again, the difference between our friends who have retired to Parliament in different statuses has been resolved.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0073par0655	No, it's not. Public people retire in a month, pensioners come in a month...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0072par0656	No, it's a two-year wait for a two-year period, which is now a condition, so I'd like to point out that this is not a newly invented situation.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0073par0657	Yeah, right now, they're gonna be doing a month from now.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0072par0658	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0074par0659	Thank you. The question-answer process is complete. There's a motion on matter that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "The 42% of the Article 42% of the Article 43 of this Law shall be applied at 45% until a new legal regulation is made." In the form of the first joke, we propose and propose that it be removed from the text of the Law. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Emine Ulir Tarhan Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0075par0669	The commission disagrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0074par0670	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0076par0671	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0074par0672	Free Special Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0675	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the motion given by our group. First of all, I pray to Mr Rauf Denktas, the founding President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, whom we buried today, Allah's mercy and all his companions who fought with him in the Cyprus trial and lost their lives, and to all the Mujahideen, that they may rest in peace. Here today, late in the evening, on December 23rd, the ruling party will not disturb its public conscience, and when we go to our constituency districts, at first looking for an apparent consensus with other opposition parties, but later, with the motions that continue to exceed these agreements, we have placed a number of proposals that will not be able to face us when we go to our constituency zones, that will not be able to look at the faces of our voters, while we are expected to be able to do something about 20 MPs in the Republican People's Party's Group, which will not only call for the removal of inequality amongst lawmakers from different institutions, the Party of the BD Party, and the Party's many members of the Party of the Republican Party of the Party of the Party of the Republic, which have been confused by a number of parliament, which has been called by a group of the 200ms.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0078par0679	Your signature, your signature! It's your signature, it's a shame! Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0079par0680	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0681	...is 42 percent of this place...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0078par0682	Don't go on!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0683	...to increase to 60 per cent, the vote was used by the MPs present in our group. (AK PARTY rankings) Today, here, the Republican People's Party MPs stood behind the vote that day...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0080par0684	What no? What no?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0078par0685	Shame, shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0686	We're here to make a note of their opposition to this 60 percent increase, that their views on the Commission and here are where they stand.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0078par0687	You're making the wrong grade in history, you're making the wrong grade in history all the time. Turkey has fallen into unintended situations because of your attitude.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0688	The trouble with these negotiations, the discomfort of these negotiations, is that by you, after seven o'clock...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0081par0690	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0691	...the fact that this was discussed at a time when the publication wasn't done, and that he was interviewed on that day is because he moved to this point today. The ruling party's responsibility is for the Constitution to carry out its mandate given by Article 86, and to make a legal arrangement for lawmakers. (AK PARTY desks) However, we are looking for a consensus that does not make this arrangement. You are still putting your own motion here as if the Republican People's Party had supported it, despite our opposition to the 42 per cent later.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0081par0694	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0695	The Republican People's Party has only one agreement, which is its agreement with workers, pensioners, workers, workers, election squares. Without the law of initiative here, we made a promise to 9 million retired pensioners from all institutions from the squares of what they call retired Kemal.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0082par0696	You're gonna have to ask the members of the group, tell them that.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0077par0697	...just a few days before the election, we'll be adopted by your party representatives, and we'll do that. You're saying that at that point, when you say that you've passed that policy in 2013 with Mr. Minister's explanations, you'll have to let those pensions go to waste and hurt their pride, and that the mountain will give birth to a mouse in that law, and you say, "This has got to come out today, because if there are any of those who are left behind in the earthquake, there's no pension, there's no side to wait for that." You put a lot of conditions on the subcommittee, sat down on Saturday, had to work fast, and then on Monday, you brought it up again. But where's January 16th with all the additions you made on that last day? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The victim of the earthquake is still waiting, still not being carried out. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0083par0702	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0084par0703	Mr. President, the speaker...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0085par0704	Friends, congratulations on the lying friend from here, Bravo!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0086par0706	Tanju, you're a young man, bless you!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0087par0708	Congressmans, please, Mr. Canikli, you can't understand. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0710	Mr. President, in regard to this process, he criticised our group's methods for the preparation of these motions during this period, and insulted us that we did not break our promise. Don't make fun of me.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0087par0711	But you say he did, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0712	That's right, Mr. President, very clearly, I'd like to speak of bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0087par0713	What kind of teasing, what did he say and tease you?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0714	Sir, I understand that the AK PARTY Group has failed to keep its promise during these studies and is trying to mislead the public...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0087par0715	Mr. Canikli, I'll give you two minutes. Without further ado, please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0717	Three minutes, Mr. President, it's important.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0087par0718	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0722	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Shandir. Why am I thanking you? Because I want to thank Mr. Shandir for his words and his signature in those studies, and for making it very clear from here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I couldn't listen to Mr. Kaplan, I wasn't there, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know if he had any opinions or opinions about it. I mean, for him...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0089par0726	We voted against it. We'll vote against it again.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0727	Yeah. Look, reputation is really important. A friend of ours showed up here talking about dignity. To me, it's one of the most important indicators of reputation. You may have done the right thing, you may have done the wrong thing, but if you have signed a signature, if the person in charge has signed it, you must stand behind it. That's how dishonor comes out, dear friends. It could be, it could be wrong, it could be wrong, it could be wrong, it could be wrong, it couldn't be wrong, it could be wrong. We can talk again, we can argue, but look, we've never talked in the process, dear friends. We've been particularly sensitive about it to keep some of our friends from being offended. But what was the need for this conversation just now? It's been discussed; everyone, the groups have said their opinion. What was the point of an unrealistic, persistent conversation trying to make it look like it was completely out of place? All groups had their agreements, and I'm telling you very clearly, all groups had their agreements. Look, I'm choosing very carefully again, with the authority to sign... (CHP rows) Look, why am I saying this? Didn't they sign all the motions by the people assigned by the group to sign the signature? (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) I mean, all the bands... Can you please tell me that the friends with signatures are not assigned by groups, that they are not authorized, that no group can say? We don't say it, no group does. Go out there and say it. Is that possible, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0090par0733	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0734	Please stand behind your signature.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0091par0735	Mr. Canicli, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0736	Don't discredit Turkey's Grand National Assembly if it's one of the methods.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0092par0737	We're behind the 5th article. We're not behind the others.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0088par0738	Everyone's signature has to stand up for what they say.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0093par0740	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0742	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0093par0743	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one moment... Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0745	In his statements, Mr. Canikli issued a statement concerning the law adopted on December 22nd, which, in fact, includes the 60 per cent of the law, in relation to that motion, our group, as well, has an agreement of all groups.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0095par0746	Mr. President, please tell him that by his assigned friends.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0747	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0095par0748	So was he in charge or not, that friend, the guy who signed it?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0749	I would like to make a statement as Deputy Director of the Group, who conducted the talks that day, because Mr. Canikli's statements do not reflect the truth.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0096par0750	So did Mr. Canikli pick on you, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0751	Sir, 69...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0096par0752	What did he say, what did he say to your group, and what did he tease them about?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0753	Sir, all groups had an agreement.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0096par0754	Oh, you mean there was no agreement?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0755	Yes, there was no agreement, of course.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0096par0756	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi, two minutes. Without further ado, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0759	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, everyone needs to know the truth very well, and I'm going to state exactly what happened that day here. Dear Canikli and the others, all of you, please listen. A meeting was held at the back of the presidential court, following the arrival of our President Cemil Cicek. It was around 3:30 p.m. Mr. Canikli, representing the ruling party group, I believe they have joined as representation of the Honourable National Party of Action. I can't remember anyone from the BDP, maybe not.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0097par0763	We weren't there. You're ignoring us!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0764	I joined the Republican People's Party Group as a representative. I'm telling you, the fact that the MP's salaries are being indexed to the President's salaries...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0098par0766	Congressman pensions!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0767	Listen, dear friend, I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0099par0768	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0098par0769	Retirement pensions, not congressman's salary.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0770	You're not listening to me.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0099par0771	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0772	You'll understand better if you listen to me. The MP's salary is to be indexed to the President's salary, but there's no increase in this indexing...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0100par0773	It's not like that. You're saying it wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0774	So I said, "Yes." I said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Resolving the salary difference between former and new Speakers, yes. And again, former and new lawmakers, it's clear that I said yes. Mr. Canikli, I said yes to all the others.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0101par0776	Who signed it? Who signed the motions? Did you or did you not authorize it?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0777	If there is another agreement other than my agreement as Vice President of the Republican People's Party Akif Hamzacebi, I ask you to explain it.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0101par0778	The person you authorized signed it.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0094par0779	I didn't give anyone any instructions, I didn't say anything. If there's a friend who can tell you that, please, go out and talk to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0102par0782	Then why didn't you speak against him?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0103par0783	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0104par0784	Mr. President, look, the substance mentioned is in the form of a new substance...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0103par0785	Mr. Canikli, make a statement for Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0104par0786	Excuse me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0103par0787	Please explain in a minute.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0104par0788	Mr. President, look, it's being carried out in the form of a new substance violation. A new substance clause and the President say: "I am opening up a meeting as a new clause."
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0103par0789	Sit down, explain your position, please. Mr. Canikli, from your place. I'm gonna turn on the mic.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0105par0791	Mr. Hamzacebi, I spoke. Mr. Tanju got that offer from you. Oh, my God! You let him.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0106par0792	You're rusty, you've done it. Please!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0105par0793	Mr. Tanju is your deputy. He's made a statement to the newspapers and to the press that he's been asked by you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0106par0794	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0105par0795	He's made a statement.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0106par0796	Mr. President, I have something to say.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0107par0797	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0108par0798	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0107par0801	Mr. President, look, the important thing is that Mr. Shandır has just expressed himself. One of the friends at the Presidential Court decided to sign one from each party, and the group assigned one person, all groups. That's what I just asked. He signed the names of the Republican People's Party, all the motions. This is very important, look. Congratulations to him and to our friend. In addition, this clause was carried out as a matter violation in the General Assembly. There's been a new substance abuse. There's the President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0109par0804	President, vote the motion, you keep pushing it.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0110par0805	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0109par0806	Do you need more time?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0111par0807	Yes, Mr. Young. That's the way I see it, sir. Mr. Canikli, please.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0112par0809	This clause, which raises it to 60 percent, is being held in the form of a new substance violation. The president says, "Anybody wants a word?" No one's talking or answering, including the Republican People's Party Group. What's this? When any matter is discussed here, don't all groups express their opinion, their opinion, especially when an object is discussed, which is not accepted? Even this makes it very clear that all groups agree on this subject, and it is recorded in the report. I've read all of this from the transcripts now, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0111par0811	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0112par0812	Look, I'm here to tell you that the Republican People's Party has agreed.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0111par0813	Copy that, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0112par0814	Is that friend authorized or not? Let them answer that question. The authority is then signed on behalf of the group, the group has information. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0113par0816	Mr. President, I'd like a word with you about my position, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0114par0817	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0113par0819	Thank you, Mr. President. The Republican People's Party Group voted no to that law that day.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0115par0821	Let go of me!
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0113par0822	On that day, I want to explain which calls were made by the Deputy Director of the Group from the Justice and Development Party that evening, and which motions were made and signed. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0115par0824	Why didn't you object? Why didn't you talk?
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0116par0825	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0117par0826	I'd like to explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0116par0827	Get into the system, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0118par0828	Mr. President, let them speak from the stand.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0116par0829	Mr. Elitaş, the General Assembly has been discussed, the law has been passed, Mr. President has been extradited; Turkey has spoken. Only one item will be discussed, item 16. This was also discussed in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0118par0830	Mr. President, there are unrealistic statements being made, other than compromises being said.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0116par0831	Mr. Canikli, can you get into the system? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0119par0834	Mr. President, Mr. Hamzacebi has raised a question. I share it with you very clearly. These negotiations took a long time. It's not even limited to this period, it's the ongoing talks from last semester. Some political parties had never been involved in any of them before, and at some point we didn't agree with any of them, or we had reserves for some of their materials, but in the end, in the process of signing the motions -- at which point -- the wills collided, merged, overlaped; the wills of all the political parties covered. How can the overlap of will be justified, and how can it be realized? It results in his friends in charge signing those motions. So, if that person signed it, it means that my group assigned me, and I'm putting this signature on behalf of my group, and it means that my signature group is connected. It means that it happened for all four groups. Our friends from four groups, our fellow officials -- four members of the Presidential Court -- signed all of these motions, so they included the motion to raise them to 60 percent.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0116par0835	Mr. Canikli, thank you. Point taken.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0119par0836	So it's an arrangement that connects all groups with a complete understanding of all groups.
tbmm-2012-01-17sit02spe0116par0842	[[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire law is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I declare the outcome of the open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 293 [[x]] So the law is accepted. According to the decision taken, it is 13 o'clock on Wednesday (January 18th 2012) to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
