tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 76th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're on the agenda. First of all, it's World Women's Day. We celebrate this day of our women who are the first half of the world's humanity community, and we wish it a blessing. And before we promise three of our friends off the agenda, I promise Mr. Coral Akşener of Istanbul to celebrate this one-minute day first, as an excuse for him to attend a meeting at a university immediately. Here you go, Mr. Akşener.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly. Today is March 8th World Women's Day. I'm celebrating this day for all our women. Here, in the business, in politics, in the economy, in the social field, I wish for equality. Our boyfriends are under the feet of our mothers. I wish our friends who call us heaven would not insult each other -- not for their parents, but for all men -- not to insult them. I wish for a Turkey where there was no violence, no abuse of women. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you, Mr. Akshener. Now, I'm going to promise three of our MPs off the agenda.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0004par0021	Mr. President, we have a couple of words to say about March 8th, Women's Day.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0003par0022	Let's finish the extracurricular talk, then, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0004par0024	You're doing it wrong, Mr. President, because it's something that needs to be done at the opening. You're making things worse on such a beautiful day, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0003par0025	The first non-responsive statement belongs to Adana MP Fatosh Gürkan, who asked for the appointment of Women's Day of the World. Here you go, Mr. Gürkan.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0005par0031	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for our World Women's Day. I salute your high council and our beloved nation who follow us. Human beings created as men or women have no right to be born by choosing their gender. So it's clear that being born a man or a woman does not give one another the upper hand. Throughout history, culture and civilizations have burdened women and men with roles and tasks, basic tasks and responsibilities due to their physical and emotional differences. Other than her basic duties, she was not in society in social life, in business, in political life, by men. After the concept of equality of opportunity began to be accepted by the community, women tried to become more and more involved in social life, working life, and politics every day. Our goal is to speed up this process and ensure the representation and participation of our women at the level they deserve. The woman is the epitome of compassion, of love, of tolerance, of sacrifice. A woman is a remarkable creature who takes on a sacred mission, such as motherhood, and carries on every difficulty of life. The most important building stone in society is the family, the mother, the woman, the most important part of the family. When we look at it this way, our women's psychology, education, the way they look at the world is more important. In the formation and education of our children, the importance of mothers and women is very important, especially when there are individuals in the family's education that are open to development, which can produce added value. For this reason, obstacles to the development of our women must be removed, averting them from becoming a useful individual to their family, to the environment they live in, and to our country. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our Republic, consists of two kinds of people called men and women. Is it Cain, let's move one part of this mass, ignore the other, so the whole mass can move forward? Is it possible that as long as half of one object remains in the ground, the other half can ascend to the heavens? Thus, important steps have been taken in the EC PARTY for our women's education, more participation in business and social life, preventing violence against women and more representation in the field of politics. The amendment to the 1982 Constitution brought positive discrimination to our women. The Civil Law, the Labour Law, the Turkish Penal Code, the Taxes Act, and the Law of Municipality have been changed, and the Prime Minister's General Assembly has been issued. The Women's Equality Commission has been established, and legal arrangements have been made to promote our women's employment. Our Prime Minister's wife, Emine Erdogan, we are in the main girls' school, which is under the protection of Ma'am, and we have hundreds of thousands of girls who have been able to train under projects such as Girls' School. Women's guesthouses and shelters have been increased in numbers, and our women have been tried to be protected. A very important step has been taken in this regard through the draft Law on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. In a century when the daughters were buried alive, the Prophet noted the importance of women's rights in Veda Hutbesi, saying, "You have rights over women and women have rights over you." Throughout history, we seem to care a lot more about our women than any other society. And our women fought with men to make this land a homeland with sacrifices that would not be seen in any geography of the world. What kind of society in the world has a hero like Sherife Bhabhi, who covers cannon shells he carries instead of a child in his arms? Black Fatma, Tayyar Rahmiya, Pilot Hatice, Nene Hatun, Halide Corporal, and thousands of brave women whose names I can't name, thank you on this meaningful day. With these thoughts and feelings, I congratulate all of our women, especially our martyr mothers, on the 8th of March, Women's Day of the World, and pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0006par0044	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. The second non-responsive statement is owned by Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova, who wants to speak on behalf of World Women's Day. Here you are, Mr. Akova.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0007par0048	Mr. President, I'm celebrating the World Women's Day of all our women who are always working at work, whether they're at home or at work. Under the traditional roles that society puts on individuals, the role of the woman has been reduced to a role in raising children at home, organizing the house, cooking and home chores, and waiting for her husband to make a living and having no say in the family's name, while the role of the man to work outside for his home and earn a living and to have a say in the family with the power of money. As it became clear that she could work outside the house and support her home as well as a man, and that she should have a say in political, economic and social decisions, that traditional roles could change, that society could even improve, the women's struggle for rights began in all aspects of society. Honourable MPs have adopted 33 per cent of women's quotas in the CHP Charter, making the woman's path further open in politics. It is also important that the Izmir Chamber of Commerce's decision on the separation of at least one quota to a woman is important on each professional committee. Women's struggle to exist in the political field, in the legal field has been going on for centuries. On March 8, 1857, the suffering of the struggle started by 40,000 weaver workers who began to strike in a textile factory for healthier working conditions was not forgotten. The rights struggle of these working women ended in the fire after police locked the workers in the factory, when most women lost the lives of 129 workers. In this context, traditional roles on the basis of male-female inequality have been widely acknowledged as women starting to organize and fight for their rights and, you know, the problem with organizational pressure is now a human rights issue, and it has been adopted in 1977 as the International Conference on Socialist Women's Day of the World. It is intended by the World Laboring Women's Day to strengthen the process of women's existence in public and social life by maintaining equality and women's rights on the global agenda. On March 8th, World Working Women's Day is an opportunity to create awareness of the equality of gender, to allow individuals of society to approach this subject with precision, to take steps towards awareness of the gender equality of society, to ensure that every step in the legal and practical plane will contribute to the welfare and the peace of the country. In this context, it is necessary to strengthen women who are represented in one day and spread the fight for women's rights throughout the year. Honourable MPs today are 79 of the 550 MPs, only one of the 26 ministers in the government, 26 of the 2,924 mayors are women, 65 of the 34,210 mayors are women, 81 governors are women; 5 of the 103 rectors are women; 21 of the 185 ambassadors are women; unfortunately there are no women among 26 clients. There are no women in the Board of Banking Editing and Control, Supreme Court, Court of Appeals; DİSK, Turkish-Work, Right-Work, Public-Sen, Officer-Sen, TOBB, UNSIAD, TESK administration boards. These numbers show that we still have a lot of ways to go. According to the 2008 Family Violence Research on Women, 42 per cent of our women were exposed to physical or sexual violence in Turkey at any time in their lifetime. According to the World Economic Forum Gender Cliff Index's 2011 rating, Turkey ranked 122. According to the 2011 Human Development Report, drafted by the United Nations Development Programme, we are ranked 92 (92) in the Human Development Index between 187 countries, and unfortunately in the Social Gender Inequality Index, we are 77 (77). In addition to the creation of legal ground for women to find their place in every field, to have equal opportunities, and to solve the problem, social mentality change and education are mandatory. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. Akova. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Batman MP Ayla Akat Ata (Akat) who wants to mention World Women's Day. Here you are, Mr. Akat Ata.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, my respects. It's March 8th. March 8th, because of the Day of World Working Women, I bow before the work of all women who are in the square today, who hold meetings, who organize panels, who hold seminars, who try to preach their voices through walks, and I celebrate the 8th of March of all working women. We said yesterday that there was a history of resistance behind today. I bow before the memory of all the women who have died in the struggle for equality and freedom, knowing how we came to this day, but only now can we organize our struggle. Dear lawmakers, the women's problem is a human rights issue. There is now a common opinion on this issue from all parts of society and all political views, but yet a common will for violence against women has not been revealed. At this point, the agreement that exists during the preparation of the law, which will continue to be discussed in our Parliament today, unfortunately, has not continued, but we still care about the will given during the preparation process, and we say that the same method must be determined for every law in Turkey. Unfortunately, women are exposed to violence at home, at school, at work, on the street, in detention, and in prison, and at the point where the woman exposed to violence can be protected, we have not been able to put a paper in front of the execution, we haven't been able to put an active mechanism. Every woman who's lost her life, murdered, has to be acted on the knowledge that there's some negligence, some irresponsibility behind her reality. However, this picture, which was presented yesterday under the roof of Parliament, has shown that the problem of violence against women is essentially an area in the country where all political parties, all segments and all understandings can think in common, and we believe that the will for solution in this field can also be used as an example in solving many problems before Turkey. Dear MPs, we, as a daughter, as a sister, as a mother, as a wife, unfortunately as a second in society, are considered secondary. When we're going through a process of social inequality at this level, unfortunately we're not able to put a road map in front of us on gender equality or on the point of giving up sexist policies. What our country needs today is a road map like this. If we can agree to this, if we can even accept some progress at the point of the national over-the-counter contracts that we signed today, we should be able to bring together a necessary road map. Today we have to predict the source of the violence in society and discuss in common how that violence was reflected into the family, into the woman who expressed herself in the public sphere. The number of women killed within a year is almost equal when we look at the Kurdish problem that is leading to the fundamental problems of our country, and the material and spiritual losses that have arisen from it, and we expose the painting and the number of women killed within a year. The will on the Kurdish issue, which has never served as a solution, but we see the lack of that kind of will about the woman's problem because we have an understanding that ignores the problem. Women are being slaughtered, it's a fact, and it's a fact that you have to see it, and you have to feel responsible for these women who get slaughtered every month -- almost every day. At this point, we all need to put our hands on the ground. As women of the BDP, we believe that we can travel a certain distance in the struggle for women's freedom that we have been fighting for for years, but unfortunately, we also face the fact that this progress has not yet occurred in the society we live in today. This year we started the March 8th events on March 1st; we were there, we were in Hakkari, and today we reveal our final work. There is a fact of a woman who is still in the fields in Şırnak and Hakkari. We're trying to raise our voice so that the work she puts out on the street, at work, at the factory, at home, is visible because she's still fighting for freedom and equality on March 8th. And we have a problem of social violence that yet prevents the violence we've been exposed to because of our sexual identity. The Kurdish problem, which has an axis, has yet to be implemented, insists on unresolved solution policies and unresolved solutions, unfortunately has a direct impact on the life of a woman in the region. This is supposed to be visible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, on March 8th, I salute all the women in the field today.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0010par0079	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. Mr. Emine Gültur Tarhan, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0011par0083	Mr. President, first of all, I would like to point out that even on Women's Day, I'm condemning the fact that a female group vice president is not being made a pledge. It's World Working Women's Day. I say to the wife of a arrested journalist, who was taken from his sons and thrown into the Silivri dungeon, to the daughters of arrested lawmakers who had been taken from their fathers, to their wives and wives, to our hardworking young girls who were working in their basements as slaves, to our young girls who were trying to be shut up in their workshops, to our little girls -- 4+4+4, who were tried to be locked up in houses -- to be kept from holding their wife's hand, to the wife of an imprisoned journalist who had been torn apart by raids and detentions, to the country's beloved Turkan Saylan. I ask for mercy for those who die, and for those who survive, I celebrate March 8th Women's Day.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0010par0086	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Now, we have some friends entering the system, so I'm going to promise them one minute in order. Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0012par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Women's Day. And I'm celebrating this day for all our women. I believe that each and every one of us should reconsider our view of the woman today. Those who speak about equality and freedom must also oppose discrimination and practice especially toward women. Otherwise, the words of equality and freedom are just rhetoric. If a number of women in a country are deprived of their rights to education because of different lifestyles or clothing, what's worse is that if they are expelled from public spaces, it is not possible to talk about equality or freedom.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0013par0094	Ten years of power for nothing.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0012par0095	Look, even in Turkey's Parliament, some of our women are banned, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is practically an asset to them because they still don't even have the right to be elected. Let alone the equality of men and women, we haven't even established the equality of women and women yet. But I regret to inform you that this shameful discrimination against some of our women...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0014par0097	Mr. Turkmenoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0015par0099	Mr. President, thank you. I too celebrate World Women's Day on March 8th. Happy World Women's Day, women and women who are citizens of the Republic of Turkey all over the world. I especially want to briefly talk about the legal arrangements for our women, the ones that have been made since 2002. Starting at the end, as you know from yesterday, the debates on violence against the woman continue in the House. Here we are endeavoring to create an environment where our women who have suffered violence can feel stronger, stand on their feet. Although the law is well done, we call it the practice that matters. We agree because I'm a person who comes from within the practice. Hopefully, that's how we'll train the practitioners. We don't want any problems with that. Again, I believe that it is our women, our mothers, who will end terror and violence in this country. I don't think there's a problem with motherly compassion and motherly love that she can't handle. Here we want to repeat the call of our Prime Minister: we must all stop violence and terror. You know, in working life, equal wages were brought in...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0016par0105	Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0017par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. I first send our greetings, our love to all the women of the world who made March 8th and who worked hard and who paid the price for it, and once again celebrate the Day of the Working Women of the World on March 8th. March 8th shouldn't be just a day when women are remembered. March 8th is also the name of the resistance, the name of the rebellion because on March 8th, people fought against inequality, exploitation, and women who fought for it for years created this day. Once again, I salute all the revolutionary women around the world, including Clara Zetkin, Rosa Luxemburg, who created March 8th, and today I salute the resistance of women who are his successors and who are struggling, who raise the demand for equality and freedom.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0018par0110	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0019par0113	It's March 8th. I salute and salute all those who cry out to our arrested MPs, mayors, elected politicians, academics, scientists, journalists, lawyers and lawyers, saying, "X" (x), "woman, life, freedom."
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0018par0114	Thank you. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0020par0117	Mr. President, today I am celebrating World Women's Day, and I look forward to a society where all our women live in a free world, free from violence and oppression in this free world. As a person with two daughters and a wife, I would like to say that hearing the news of a woman who was murdered every day in our country, for a father, for a man, for a human being, is very sad. In this regard, I would like to see this Parliament perform more effective tasks in preventing increasing violence, and to see legal regulations that will never happen again in practical life, beyond meaningful celebrations, to end violence against women, and I salute all our women.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0018par0119	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0021par0122	Mr. President, I, too, celebrate the World Women's Day of March 8th, a world free of violence, in peace, in which our woman will receive the respect she deserves in the world, celebrating the Women's Day of all our women.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0018par0123	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The discussion of the problems of subcontractors working in public, the opening of "Meclis investigation" on the basis that at least one part of this form of employment is incompatible with our legislation in the Constitution, particularly our Constitution, and that a number of problems may be avoided and will be established if the Research Commission is established, we propose and propose the opening of "Meclis investigation" for Article 104 of Article 98 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey to be presented to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. In various public services, it is estimated that there are around 300,000 employees employed by the channel of subcontractors. The employment of personnel through subcontractors is not one of the forms of employment defined in Act 657. Today, a part of public service that does not have to be done through civil servants, which are covered by cleaning services, can be affordable through the purchase of outside services. However, it is known that employees employed in public through subcontractors are being used outside of their aims and that number is increasing day after day. In any public institution today, it is possible to see a number of subcontractors employed in a number of services ruled by the Constitution and the Laws. According to our current legislation, the employment of these personnel is not possible, but they have no responsibilities, no signing authority. In order not to cause the victims of these personnel, it may be considered at least that the personnel being used in administrative services in public institutions should be put into contract personnel status. On the other hand, it is known that workers who work for subcontractors for years have no union rights, that senior compensations have been lost by in-and-out method. This practice clearly violates the Constitutional Government of the Republic of Turkey, which states that the state of Turkey is a social legal state. There are also various challenges in receiving such tenders. Companies entering tenders are breaking prices in order to offer the best bid to win the tender. As a result, when they win the tender, they are either cutting back on the rights of the staff they employ, resorting to cheating methods against the law in a number of ways, or preventing them from fulfilling their obligations, or, in fact, not doing so. And finally, some companies have to quit because they're losing their contract. In this case, the country's economy is being damaged, as a result of the failure of services. The government has decided not to remove the woes of this subcontractor employment, but to allow public officials to intervene in various practical methods to employ employees in the company, to identify the staff to work. This practice is known to all public opinion, especially our MPs, and violates the principles of equality, neutrality and rights. In accordance with our reasons, we offer and propose that our offer be accepted. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Kastamon]] [[Manisa]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 15) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 21) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 22) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Given their national and spiritual values, the Turkish community, known for its strong ties, has been insane in recent years, despite its sensitivities. Domestic violence, divorces, massacres, suicides that occur almost every day, has increased in particular in recent months. The Constitution is 98, threatening the structure of the Turkish community, seeking to investigate the reasons for these social events and to find ways to resolve them. Turkey's Grand National Assembly 104th of the Council of Ministers. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. The Republic of Turkey, the heir of the Ottoman Empire, dominated three continents, led by art, led by powerful family structures, developed its environment with cultural wealth, longed for justice, continues to be the hope of many oppressed peoples in many parts of the world, not only for the peace and prosperity of the 72 million populations in Anatolia, but still for today. In the process we're in, it's obvious that personal insanity has gained social dimensions. Almost every day there are murders, domestic massacres, divorces, suicides in our town, our county, even our village. Over the past year, the incident of over 30 people being murdered and injured by raiding a wedding house in Mardin is not going to be erased from memory for many years. The horrors of a former petty officer in Adana, killing eight members of his own family, murdering two children in his home, killing eight people, one police officer in Karataş County of Adana, and all five others, are still in memory of the murder of a police officer, his wife, his wife, his wife, and his father. The madness of your father who killed four children and five others in the Gazi district of Istanbul is not forgotten. The madness of the man who killed his ex-wife, father-in-law and mother-in-law on the street in April, killing a retired colonel's wife and two children in Çanakkale, killing three people in a coffee shop in Izmir, are just a few of the traumas that leave a mark on the public memory. Recently, the sad story of an 18 - year - old boy who took his own life in prison for his mother's debt to the school is written in the society's memory. As a society, it is a fact that we have suffered a severe trauma in recent years, with a life of insecurity, lovelessness, and intolerance. In short, in social events that are subject to the request for research, "seeable" is actually the same as the ones that have been exposed through the press. Even in this way, it would have to be hard to imagine that the scale of social events that are "ordinary" is much greater. Of course, it's not just the events that corrupt our society that lead to murder. The disintegration of domestic violence, divorces, temporary separations, the abandonment of children to the street, to the fate of a needy parent may be among the other factors that threaten this structure. Also, crimes against property, such as theft, snatching, fraud, pickpocketing, and increasing crime can be seen as other dimensions of the problem that exists. In any case, the basic impact of economic problems, economic crises on society, unemployment, decline in income, change in living standards, decline in socioeconomic levels and increase in poverty, strict traditions and customs and customs, false religious beliefs, cultural inadequacies, intolerance, miscommunication preferences, loss of love and respect of the Turkish Nation, moral corruption, cultural corruption, the loss of religious orders and teachings. We propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission, which threatens the structure of the Turkish community, with the investigation and detection of the causes of these social events, to find solutions. [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Aydın]] 4) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Kastamon]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 16) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Manisa]] 19) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 20) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly • the detection of measures needed for Turkey's use and protection of water resources, • reviewing measures and water management policies so far, • setting the necessary measures to ensure the safe and healthy supply of water for the capital cities, In accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Civil Charter of the Constitution, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliament's investigation. Turkey has lost 50% of its underground and terrestrial water supply in the past 40 years. At the same time, the population of the country is increasing, while on the other hand, the amount of water use of the individuals is increasing. By the time the population reaches 80 million, the amount of water available per person in Turkey will be 1,100 m3 per year. With this amount of water, our country will make a poor water country. In Turkey, 72% of the water is used in agriculture, 18% in homes and 10% in industry. According to accounts, the amount of use in agriculture, industry and everyday living areas is estimated to be 260 per cent more than today in the 2030s. Although global warming and drought have been shown as Turkey's key factor in rapidly consuming water reserves, the main reason is that our water supply has been misusing and managed. The executives of our institutions and institutions who are responsible for the use and protection of our water resources are trying to explain the outcome of what has been achieved today: • City drinking water networks contain 50 to 70 per cent fugitives, • the use of underground water in agriculture and industry is very common and unconscious, so the underground water supply is rapidly diminishing, • that the DSI's irrigation model and the following policies are wrong, • Lack of institutional arrangements, • in our major cities, especially Ankara, there will be serious problems because projects on drinking water can't be improved enough and timely, It is also known that these issues are subject to various research and studies, and various measures have been proposed, and they are in our press. Despite these assessments and explanations, concrete steps have not been taken, except for the publication of generalities and declarations. There is no indication that local governments are directed on these issues and that joint investment projects are being developed. Turkey's Capital, the "Ankara Su Temini Project," which has not been implemented in Ankara, has been implemented in practice, which has led to the rapid extinction of limited water resources. As a result, the water supply for Ankara ran out has begun to be watered down from the Kızılırmak river, but it has become a subject of intense debates in the media, whether the water is healthy or sulfate in the water, and the urban and industrial waste in Sivas, Kayseri, Nevşehir and Kırşehir have been given without decontamination. The mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor has stated that this claim will be given to Ankara by the current water of the Kızılmırmak. On the other hand, disputes and disputes between central management and local government have shown deep lack of co-ordination, especially on water supply to Ankara. On the other hand, there is also a false opinion that water resources are not a problem in our country in terms of management, but that the problem is only caused by drought. The average amount of water flow and renewable water in our country per year is pronounced in various sources, such as the available water potential per capita. The common point, however, is that our country is among non-water-rich countries. The issue in itself reveals the need for precision to be focused on effective measures to protect and use our water resources. As a matter of fact, two research commissions have been established in our great Parliament, including problems caused by climate warming and issues related to the use and protection of our water resources. However, the commission reports have not been discussed by the General Assembly of the TBMM. We believe it will be useful to determine measures to use and protect water resources, including proposals in the parliamentary research commissions, and to review Turkey's measures and water management policies so far, and to investigate the reasons, responsible and solution proposals of the Constitution, under the requirements of Articles 98th, Internal Charter 104 and 105th, and to investigate the measures needed by major cities to meet the need for water. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 15) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will take place on the agenda and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis that I'll have you read and vote: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The President of the Turkish Foreign Commission, Volcano Bozkir, is scheduled to join the Conference of Presidents of Foreign Affairs (COFACC), which will be held in Copenhagen on March 11-12, 2012, within the framework of Denmark's EU presidency. Participating at the conference is the number 9 of the 3620 Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, we move to the part of the agenda with the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the second place, Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, MP of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group Group Deputy Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi; Anthalya MP Gürkut Acar; Agreement for the Protection of the Family with the Turkish Civil Law and the Protection of the Family; The Law Proposal for the Protection of the Family; İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel's Order for the Protection of the Turkish Penal Code of the 4320th Family; The Proposal of Law on the Law; The Proposal of Law on the Protection of the House; The Order for the Law on the Protection of the Family; The Order of the Law on the Protection of the Law of the Family; The Law on Human Rights and the Law on Human Rights of the Law; The Law on Human Rights and the Law of the Law of Justice of Women; The Human Rights of Women; We are not prepared to be held in accordance with the Justice of the Justice of the House. (x) 181 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 75th Consolidation Charter, dated 7/3/2012. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, Article 11 of the first chapter of the bill, which was considered the basic law, according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to submit the rest of the clauses in this section to your votes after I've processed the motion. There are three proposals on matter, and I'm going to read them: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment to the First Amendment of the 12th Amendment to the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women should be changed in the following way. ί1) A judge's decision and technical tools and methods can be used in implementing the measures made according to these provisions of the Law. In this way, however, the voices and images of individuals cannot be heard, monitored, and recorded. It's the 12th Amendment in 181 rows. on the matter of the judge's decision to add the advent and 2. If it is necessary to prevent life-threatening danger from coming after the notice. We offer to add the austerity, with consideration of the opinions and suggestions of the women's organisations, following the declaration. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 181st row we're discussing is the 12th amendment to the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article follows a decision made after the declaration, adding the notice of the judge if necessary, and 2. With the direction of the joke, we propose and provide that the declaration be changed to the law. Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0022par0343	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0018par0344	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0023par0345	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0018par0346	Mr. Sena Kaleli. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0024par0349	Mr. President, before we start talking, I apologize for the quality of my voice for the paralysis of a vocal cord, but the noise barrier can't shut us up. Yes, since a person can't be two when he's one, I can't help but think about the family's protection and the violence against her. Therefore, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the 12th amendment of Bill 181 that we are discussing. I salute your high council. Starting with my words, twenty-two years ago, yesterday, on March 7, 1990, I commemorate Cetin Emeç and his driver Sinan Ercan. In 1857, good lawmakers returned to an international day celebrated by women of the world on March 8th, starting with a strike and a struggle against inequality and discrimination, with 40,000 working workers from New York asking for a more humane life. Although 155 years have passed since March 8, 1857, problems with women in the world and our country have increased from the past to the present, becoming a major social problem. As of today, women in our country are being seconded, seconded, uninsured, uninsured, flexible, and exploited as a cheap labor force, while hundreds of women are being kept in prisons for their thoughts. In light of these facts, March 8th has a greater meaning in our country. Members of parliament, March 8th World Laboring Women's Day is still being declared a formal holiday in nearly 40 countries. As women who make up half the society, we demand that March 8th be declared on the official holiday day in our country. Reminding us that the proposals of the law on this matter stand in line with the commission, the political, economic and social standards of women in the world and our country are only possible in the secular and democratic system, all women sincerely celebrate the Day of World Workers' Women on March 8th, wish for an equal and free Turkey in all areas, free from violence and oppression. Members of lawmakers, the adoption of our motion to make sure that the 12th Article of the bill, which carries the title of the technical method, must be followed by a judge's decision, is correct and correct with the fact that everyone is subject to listening and monitoring paranoia, which is the work of the AKP authorities, but it is important that the application of the provision of the 12th article be added before the declaration is necessary. On the other hand, I'd like to share with you a problem here because it's a technical matter. At the beginning of the week, I visited prisons and shelters in Bursa. The sexist approach to crime also attracts the most women in prisons. Most of the women in prisons commit crimes on the basis of domestic and external pressures, slander, harassment, abuse, rape, abuse, beatings, forced marriages with older men, and relief from violence. The low level of teaching and the low rate of economic independence is a key factor in the woman's criminal activity. Since I'm out of time, I'd like to pass this along. Women who stay at the shelter or who are trying to cover their tracks say that their e-school tracking system and their spouses and relatives have found themselves and imposed threats, harassment, and pressure. The removal of the children's records from the E-school system will solve this problem. With these thoughts and feelings, I ask that the bill be changed to an effective and effective structure, and I salute the High Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0025par0360	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Kaleli and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. It's the 12th Amendment in 181 rows. on the matter of the judge's decision to add the advent and 2. If it is necessary to prevent life-threatening danger from coming after the notice. We offer to add the draft, considering the opinions and proposals of women's organisations, after the declaration. Ayla Akat (Batman) and her friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0026par0367	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0025par0368	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0027par0369	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0025par0370	Mr. Tuncel, Istanbul MP, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0028par0371	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our amendment motion. I salute you all. Today, March 8th, I begin by celebrating World Laboring Women's Day and once again, all women's March 8th World Labor Women's Day. Of course, today is not really a very happy day for women, because on March 8th, we are, unfortunately, discussing violence against women. In order to have hope, we are now discussing this proposal of the law, since it is not destined to be used side-by-side by side by side, and that violence should be eliminated for equal and free living. I'm hoping that this law proposal, despite its shortcomings, may actually be at a point that will facilitate women's lives and prevent violence against women. But it seems -- we've been talking about it for two days -- the work just to eliminate violence -- unfortunately doesn't make our work any easier. As long as we don't change the mindset, we can't get a way out of here. I'd like to rephrase that. In other words, democracy is also an important issue for women's struggle, lawmakers. If there's no freedom of thought and expression, it's the women who suffer the most here, and unfortunately in our country, there's no freedom of thought and expression. We've been talking about women's struggle here for two days, and women are fighting for women's freedom, democracy, equality on the street. But they're still at work, facing police brutality, state violence. In Istanbul today, women were severely detained when they wanted to act; again, in Adana, they face security forces to celebrate Women's Day in Mersin. This is an approach. Again, dozens of women have been taken into custody during two days of operations. Political operations continue today in Diyarbakir. So, in a place where there's a political atmosphere like this, where there's no freedom of thought and expression, it's not easy for women, unfortunately. This has to change once, so Turkey needs to change. Women are not only interested in women's problems, they are interested in Turkey's agenda. That's our basic problem. Members of parliament, the working woman must earn her bread, but she also needs roses. The union leader Rose Schneiderman, known in her words, said in his speech after the fire at the Triangle, many years ago: "If I had come here only to make good words, I would have betrayed these poor, burnt bodies. You beautiful people, we've come to you before and found you in poverty, he says. In his speech again: Women are not burned alive for the first time in this city. Every week I get the news of one of my working sisters' untimely deaths. Thousands of us are crippled every year. Our lives are so cheap and the property is so sacred that so many of us for one job, it's very little important that we all burn to death. Every time workers try to announce their voices in the only way they know how to protest unbearable conditions, the strong fist of the law is allowed to crush us heavily. Officials only know how to give warning. Behind warnings that we must be extremely peaceful and behind all warnings is business support. When we stand up against conditions that make life unbearable, the power of the law repels us, he says. In fact, the conditions are still the same today. When women still say "equality and freedom," when they say "democracy," when they say "no" in violence, often when they're exposed to male violence, the law protects them, and women are more helpless against it. We're trying to change that it's not fate, but it's important to change it from a whole perspective. We're trying to ward off violence from our lives, never to face violence again, and we're trying to fight so that one woman, one child, is not a victim of violence in this country -- in terms of our proposal for change -- because violence sometimes comes to a point where our lives are at risk, and often men interpret it according to the thousands of years of male rule system, and we end up getting killed. That's why five women are killed a day. Women's organisations must be involved in such arrangements. Let's take it from the court processes, and if that doesn't happen in the following application processes, I'm saying that traditional male approach, traditional male rule politics, unfortunately, even if regulations are made in the law, it doesn't change our lives. Once again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0029par0382	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Tuncel and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the following amendments to Article 12 of Article 12 of "Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women." According to these provisions of the Law, the judicial decision to implement measures can be used by technical tools and methods. However, in this way, the voices and images of individuals cannot be heard, monitored, and recorded." Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0030par0390	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0029par0391	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0031par0392	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0029par0393	I'm reading the reason: Techniques and methods serve to monitor whether or not the person who has been given a preventive precautionary decision to go to specific places is in line with the obligation to approach certain individuals. However, using these tools and methods, the person who has been given a precautionary decision should not be heard, not monitored, and this conversation and images should not be recorded. Because the application of such methods in the context of protective or preventive measures is an important means of intervention into individual rights and freedoms, privacy and the secrecy of communication. The use of technical tools and methods should be limited without audio and video recordings, to allow a person to be able to locate his place in the day and monitor it electronically. In addition, the proposed amendment will only be used on the basis of the judge's decision to determine whether or not he is acting in accordance with the requirements of the obligation laid down for him. The motion for this amendment has been made with the specified appeals. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Elitaş and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted on Article 12, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows where we're talking about the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. Article 2. The last sentence of his joke, "But the total duration of forced imprisonment cannot exceed six months" We respectfully announce that after the weight of the 1-minus and the discrepancy of the joke, the notice of the court of the family will be removed and added. "The request for a mandatory arrest order for the end of the 13 articles of the 181 law bill can be made to the family court, where there has been a restraining order or a violation of the precautionary decision or a victim of violence," he said. The addition of his statement, We propose that the following joke be added after the 2nd joke. If there is also a crime against the needs of an informed decision, the legal procedures for this crime will be started without delay. Do you agree with the Commission's final motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0032par0410	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0029par0411	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0033par0412	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0029par0413	Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0034par0414	Mr. President, dear friends, we recommend these changes because if these provisions are not added to these provisions, the demand for forced imprisonment can be made, or the place where a precautionary decision has been made, or where the victim of violence is found can be taken to the family court. If not added, then we are faced with the following problem: it is possible that the law will remain in the air as to which court, which law is the only sanction, and how it will be asked, and it is possible for all of the law to be put at risk. The women's struggles are very persistent. It must be carried out by the legislature of this House to consider it and to ensure that the prosecution of crime does not remain in the air and that it is carried out in accordance with the intention of protecting the woman. Secondly, if the violation of the demands of a decision is also a crime, then it will begin with no delay in the necessary legal proceedings related to this crime. As it has been shown so far, judges usually do not reenact, and women's organisations, as stated in Article 6 (secures) under the title "Responsives of crimes" as well as in the most violent crimes including rape and sexual assaults, such as reading of books, are often thought that punishments and sanctions will be created in the legal system and in the public system. We agree with that concern, and we want them to be included in the law order for them to be resolved. Now, of course, it may not be much of a result if only the laws are equipped with these provisions alone. It's very important to develop the sensitivity of men as well as women here. I'd like to read to you that the Bianet Internet news portal, which I pride myself on being one of its founders, has a gang of women's murders every month, women's violence against women, and I want to read the February results: 14 women were killed in February, 10 women were raped in 5 provinces, 16 women were harassed, 17 children were sexually or physically abused, and 72 incidents of violence have occurred in 20 provinces. These are very severe results. I'd like to ask you as a riddle, where do you think these cases were most performed? You'll probably say, "You're wrong, my friends. 26 of the 72 cases took place in the Aegean, 19 in the Marmara, 15 in the Central Anatolian, 8 in the Mediterranean, 2 in the Black Sea, 1 in the Southeast Anatolian region, and 1 in the East Anatolian region. I would like to point out that in these areas of our least violent areas, the highest sensitivity of women and the strong perception of women to avoid violence in men, has something to do with the presence of strong, autonomous women in our cities. The labor unions around here enforced very strong sanctions to give women wages, raises to men who used violence against women in their contracts. A strong women's movement, where women's organization is, as you can see, is the most common in the preconceptions of feudalism, and it's clear that violence against women is the lowest. They may not appear to be based on women's complaints, but since the killings are impossible to conceal, I would like to suggest that the most recent, most modern, most secular, most, in the most recent areas of Turkey, not in these areas. So living in the West, living in modern conditions, doesn't require being a pirouette, it needs the House to work harder to develop female sensitivity, and men to accept the rights of women as voluntary. Thank you very much. I expect you to approve this proposal, men and women.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0035par0422	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Furcier and his friends, those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows where we're talking about the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. Article 2. The last sentence of his joke, "But the total duration of forced imprisonment cannot exceed six months" We respectfully announce that after the "heavy" of the 1-Ficture "and the weight of the contradiction" will be removed and added to the statement "the judge of the family court." Ayşe Nedret Akova (Fishesir) and her friends Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0036par0430	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0035par0431	Government?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0037par0432	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0035par0433	Mr. Akova, the motive or the speech...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0038par0434	Mr. Specten...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0039par0435	Mr. Reza Turmen will speak.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0035par0436	Mr. Reza, you have no signature. I'm going to ask you to sign a motion. Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0040par0438	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's World Women's Day. I wish all women happy today, but there's not much to celebrate in terms of women in Turkey, and we're sad to observe it. In a country where at least one woman is killed a day, often more than a year old, there is nothing more to worry about than a situation to celebrate. The bill that comes before us is a positive step, of course, but we need to know that violence against women is not only possible by law. There's a much deeper, much more important, a matter of looking at a woman, of looking at a woman in society. The source of violence against the woman is actually closely related to her freedom, which is very closely linked to male sovereignty over the woman, but if this is eliminated, the violence on her could also be reduced. Therefore, as the Republican People's Party, our understanding of equality is the end of sovereignty relations. We understand the equality of all sovereignty relations, whether one religious group on another religious group, whether one ethnic group on another ethnic group, or the end of male sovereignty over woman. However, such equality will lead to freedom, and will lead to freedom of women. The question of freeing a woman is that she is the subject, that she can become an independent subject who can write her own life story. However, it is not possible for us to be liberated from a patriarchal family, free from its oppression and into the pressure of her husband. A woman is always a part of a private life, a private life, drawn by a man. It is condemned to live within the limits of this special life. The freedom of a woman is the freedom of a woman to save on her own body as much as economic liberation. As long as these freedoms are not granted, she is condemned to remain within the limits of this special life. That's where the violence against the woman comes from. If the woman who lives under the male's sovereignty, who belongs to the man's private life, makes an independent decision -- such as divorce -- puts her will against the man's will, the man can't bear this independent will in his own personal life. And that's the main reason for the murders. ▪ The protection of the family carries the title of the law. Protecting a family is not the same as protecting a woman from violence, it's different things, sometimes even conflicting things. Because in many cases we see that in the European Court of Human Rights, this was the same in the verdict that Turkey was convicted -- when the women went to complain about violence, the authorities involved in this family's work, let's not get involved in the domestic affairs of the family. They have an attitude like that. Because of this attitude, the woman is, at work, ignored, unguarded, and eventually killed. For him, the protection of the family does not really mean the protection of the woman. On the contrary, perhaps, I mean, authorities should be able to interfere in the family's affairs so that women can be protected. We're seeing something else in this European Court of Human Rights decision. Violence against women is treated with discrimination. Violence against women is based on discrimination against women. Hence, the protection of the family at the head of the law offer will not help to eliminate violence against women. Our proposal is that the family court judge enter the court's proposal of the 13th article, and the total period of forced imprisonment cannot exceed six months. We predict the removal of the declaration. Why should it be limited to six months, it's hard to explain. We wish that this would be removed and that the judge would be an expert family court in the business. And, of course, violence is not only against women, but also against all sexual tendencies, as part of the law, we would like to avoid violence due to other sexual tendencies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We see with great regret that this is not happening. In this law, that's a major flaw. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0041par0451	Mr. Turmen, thank you very much. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Riza Turmen and his friends, those who don't accept... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 13th article has been passed. Congressmans, the votes of the substances in section one have been completed. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part includes 14 to 25th articles, including temporary matter 1. On top of the second chapter, Sebahat Tucson, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Tuncel, come in. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0042par0460	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group over the second chapter of the Law Bill for the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute all friends. Women's struggle in Turkey is a battle with a long history. The '80s, where the concept of domestic violence has never been used, corresponds to a long struggle to put even this concept into our language and get it accepted. Women in Turkey have achieved major gains in fighting violence against women and especially domestic violence. For a long time, lawmakers have struggled for years that the private area is political, so that violence against women in private should be visible, otherwise we cannot prevent violence against women. Most of the time, we've been arguing for two days, and in fact, in the family sense, it's all gone. Because in the traditional family structure, women have often been shy about telling what they've been going through so that their children don't get hurt, or, you know, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk, there's talk, so they'll hurt me. Most of all, when it's life-threatening or when it's too much to handle, these applications happen. We think this is serious. For years, this particular area has been political. So women's violence in the private area must be visible. The struggle was a very important battle, and we can now at least discuss private space in Turkey. Again, in the great effort of women's organisations, 237 women's organisations, this Bill of Law also experienced domestic violence. This is an important gain, an important gain for women's organizations. Of course, shelters or shelters are an important issue in the matter of domestic violence. Because when women are exposed to violence, when they're in danger of life, the areas they're going to apply for are generally state institutions, and often they're sent back home and these women are slaughtered. So it's important to have an approach to sustain women's lives. Especially in chapter two, there are some arrangements for this area. But there are some uncertain circumstances here. For example, in the matter of opening a day care centre or temporary accommodation of women, the budget issue is problematic; in fact, in Turkey, we always speak during budget talks. That's what we've always expressed as the Peace and Democracy Party. There must be a public-sex-sensitive budget. Women need a budget. Because we see it very clearly in terms of violence against women. Let's say, again, in this Bill of Law, there is something at the end; 362 staffs are assigned. This is a very serious problem. So that's how many women are killed a day in a field where women are subjected to violence every day, and it's a problem in itself to run it with just 362 people. Second of all, let's say there's a problem with how much budgets go down here, what kind of budgets are set up for the implementation of shelters, in terms of actually preventing violence against this woman. As you know, in fact, there is an obligation to open women's shelters in municipalities in places that are over 50,000 people, but the number of shelters that have been opened so far is very inadequate. I mean, just because it happened in the law doesn't mean it often does. I think that's a problem. Congressmans, I'd like to share with you some headlines that women's organisations would like to highlight: In general, for women's expenditures, especially for preventing violence and implementing support programmes for women who are affected by violence, should be earmarked for public and local government budgets. These budgets need to be prepared from a point of view that is aware of gender equality, because most of the time, it's a matter of where the budget is being spent, and how the budget is being spent, and where it's being spent. Again, local governments have to support the independent shelters that independent women's organisations will first open as space and financing, without interfering in their internal functioning, because an individual who does not have a woman's perspective is in charge of women's shelters, causing other problems there. Again, the following universal principles must be observed in shelters that will be opened by local governments and independent women's organisations: The shelters' addresses are confidential, they don't open with ceremony, and information about women applying is kept confidential. They do not discriminate between women based on age, sexual preference, class, disability, religion, religion, language, profession, marital status, nationality, color, political opinion and so on. No women or children in shelters are subjected to oppression or violence. Studies in shelters are conducted only by women with women's perspectives or by people who are trained in gender equality. The shelters accept women and children together. The shelters must ensure the safety of women and children. Women's violence is fundamental, and what women say is true. I mean, the women's organizations fought hard on the fact that a woman's statement is fundamental. It's partially implemented, but it's still a serious problem. It's essential that women experience violence. That should be taken into account. The sanctuary must be encouraging to find ways and methods to free a woman from violence. In order to build a nonviolent life, women must receive child care support through medical, psychological, legal counseling, vocational courses and opportunities for employment. In the bunker, a life environment will be created that will restore the woman's self-esteem. Because usually when women go to shelters, it's sad, it's sad, it's not when they're in need of protection, it's not when they're a free individual, it's being developed on a point in society where they lose more self-esteem, it doesn't express itself, and psychologically it's something that prevents women from moving on. The address of the women's shelters is confidential, as well as the shelters must be opened with women's consultation centers in order to provide women with the necessary support outside the shelter. The housing houses and shelters in the bill are completely different things. The concepts, such as the shelter house, take violence against women from being a social problem, a object to be protected, and the violence against women becomes her own problem, and force her to remain in the traditional role of the family without changing. Yet, shelters are not only places that will provide for the safety of women or help them to take a breath away from the violence of men, but also places where they can have a nonviolent relationship with other women and children and discover that a nonviolent life is possible. Therefore, the use of the upper expression is recommended by women's organisations to use it instead of using it. Dear lawmakers, we often see murders committed in the name of tradition and honor in Turkey. In particular, these two concepts are an approach to somehow saving men, which makes women's murders, women's deaths innocent, which must be abandoned. Virtue is a powerful, widespread, organized and internalized patriarchal regulatory mechanism for women's bodies and sexuality. Virtue prevents women from expressing human rights violations, allowing men to consolidate their power and status, and thus metamorphize their bodies. In order for the law to be enforced, we have also suggested that vocational training must be organised between law enforcement, physicians, judges, prosecutors and lawyers. Women should be informed in the native language as they learn their rights, and the use of the native language should also be supported in education policy. If the only language he knows when accessing women who may have been victims of violence is Kurdish or Lazca or Armenian, then women must be reached from that language. That's the part that's missing at this point, because we're talking about education in the mother tongue. We're just dealing with it as a political demand. Many women, especially Kurdish women, are in a place where they can't even describe their own problems, their own problems, because they don't speak any other language, they don't speak Turkish. Of course, the main language issue is important in preventing violence against women. It is especially important to send Kurdish - speaking officials to the region, psychologists, sociologists, lawyers. Otherwise, we can't solve these problems. Many of the women are already having trust issues, so they are a serious problem for those who cannot speak their own language or use it. Congressmans, of course this law will pass today. The passage of this law is also important to us, so we're opposed to certain situations, but we're going to have to fight for it. But once again, there are conditions for this law to be implemented, additional measures must be taken. For example, where will the budget be financed, and how will the change of mind improve in this regard? So we know the Ministry of Social Policy's budget, and with this budget, there's no way to prevent it. Therefore, additional measures must be taken. Otherwise, there are no incidents, no conditions. I really think women will be sent home again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0043par0489	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Second speaker on behalf of the groups, Mr. Sena Kaleli is a member of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaleli.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0044par0493	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP Group over the second part of Bill 181, which we are discussing. I salute your high council. Congressmans, we are on the verge of taking very important steps against violence against one of our country's biggest bleeding wounds. The numbers on the violence against the woman, the numbers, they're pretty much known to everyone. I don't want to take your time repeating these numbers here. The numbers are annoying, but if the numbers are read correctly in our day, they report both quantity and quality and those who are close and those who are far away, and they shape and govern our lives. What happened in our country and the increasing violence unfortunately confirms that determination. Here's the violence of the state: what happened to the pregnant girl in Dolmabahçe who was protesting the Prime Minister's meeting with the rectors! Is this image we've had of many, a forward democracy, or a monument to shame? Dear lawmakers, violence is a human rights violation, but today, it threatens our future as a social problem. This consciousness and violence, as stated in the basis of the bill, are no longer a private area issue, and the fight against violence has begun as a state policy throughout the world. The bill we're negotiating is the result of this process. In this regard, I thank the Minister of Family and Social Policy, Mr. Fatma Şahin, for his well-intentioned and sincere approach to women's organisations, but despite long discussions, correspondence and talks, I also express my regret that the Council of Ministers, who are members of the draft that does not fully meet the demands, cannot have them. Members of parliament, women's movements in the world have risen on three waves; they have started with equality; they have developed with physical awareness, rights, freedom and equality of gender. The reflection of women's actions in our country corresponds especially to the post 1980s. The institutionalization of women's actions and the creation of the world's running feminist memory began after the 1990s, but Turkey is a conservative country that still does not believe in the biological difference in equality of women and men, not allowing the awareness of women's bodies, restricting rights and freedoms, increasing violence every day. In this context, when we look at the last ten years of research, we seem to be in serious mental decline. The woman's efforts to distance herself from economic and social life also provide the basis for violence. Congressmans, according to Mahatma Gandhi, our thinking determines our fate. The way we live, from language to behavior and habits, all our predispositions lead us to our destiny. As long as a woman in our country can't be freed from her position that only gives birth, raises, runs the house, has to be hurt, has to be approved, it won't change her fate unless it's the traditional loser, the lower self. According to legal activist MacKinnon, gender is also a political system. The steps we take in this context, the regulations that we will legislate, are important not only for today but also for the future. Therefore, it should not be forgotten that every single clause of the bill that we are discussing is vital to all people, especially our children, who are the elders of tomorrow, especially women. A review of these views shows that the language and changes used in the bill confirm MacKinnon. In the entire bill sent to the prime minister, the word "one person" is used, while the next bill shows that the word has been changed to "one person." A person is used in the public mouth as a husband. However, the individual is the only entity that cannot be divided without losing its unique qualities. Even this distinction is one of the greatest signs of the bill being prepared by male sovereign rhetoric. The understanding that follows only segregated political ideology, without the language of love, cannot be the solution to violence. Another example that supports this judiciary is the release of information on social gender equality in the third joke of Article 16 of the bill, which contains the inter-governmental coordination and education title. It is not possible to understand the refusal of educational publications to be prepared together with NGOs, barrooms and women's organisations. The staff of the violence and monitoring centers, considered an important gain in fighting violence against women, has been reduced to 362 put in the final form of the bill at 5.557 in the first draft. Do you believe that 362 people can be fought effectively against violence? Or is the number down because there's no recruitment? On the other hand, the fact that violence against women and children was not made clear that it was a human rights violation raises questions about the purpose of the bill. It is a great injustice to mankind and creation that sexual orientation and sexual identity are not included, that there are no sexual tendencies for those who are to be protected. The lack of regulation of non-controversy and non-conciliation between the parties in the process of violent application weakens the implementation and influence of the bill. The lack of an arrangement to expose a man, not a woman, is also a significant lack of deterrent. Members of parliament, I must say that the bill does not meet the expectations of fighting violence, while welcoming good-willed approaches, studies, respect and appreciation. There is no way to fight violence against women, fearing the concepts of equality between men and women by compromise of principles. The problem and the point of origin are not only due to legal shortcomings, but the change of perspective and mental transformation are essential. Not expecting anyone to be a feminist, but being a humanist is an important step towards solving the problem. Besides being a protector, right and freedom-based understanding should be a dominant philosophy. How is an opportunity equal to a woman whose body has been forgotten, taken out of her own judgment, whose family planning has been rescinded, whose family and social policies have failed to become individuals, so they are not equal? But the fact that she's in public, socializing, socializing, it's going to socialize the male, and it's going to make her in control in every way. At this point, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's words should be our guide, and policies to strengthen her economically, socially, culturally. To do that, we must begin with the new constitution, where we have the task of changing cultural patterns related to the rule of a gender or inferiority to the state in a run-in with the Convention on the Eliminating Every Sort of Segregation Against Women. With these thoughts, I ask that the bill be passed in accordance with criticism and suggestions, and I salute your grand delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0045par0516	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Third speaker on behalf of the groups, Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Group Mehmet Shandir, Mersin MP. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0046par0520	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Today, our Parliamentary General Assembly is having a very quiet day. We're discussing a private matter. It's the woman in question, and unfortunately, I think, because of our embarrassment, it's our calm. With the sadness and shame of our disrespect for the woman or our failure to fulfill our duties, today's turn is red. It's all right. Nevertheless, having discussed such a law on the Day of Women on March 8th should be considered to be a matter of pride in the name of our Assembly. You know, as the National Movement Party Group, in this law, at the request of Mr. Secretary, we had a record to at least speak and not make a motion, and we had a promise. We're doing this because it's our mutual concern. It's not enough, but yes, we have a desire to be better, to be better, to be perfect, but it's a law that must be taken out of the House by one step, one act of loyalty, one responsibility, and because of March 8th Women's Day, we have a desire to complete a respect for our women. The Minister's request was in that direction. We, too, had a decision not to talk too much about it, not to make a motion, to ensure that he leaves quickly, but it seems that the reasons of the other political party groups are being extended by their own self-appreciative motions. I hope he gets out today. I've been promised here, taking an opportunity to pay respects to our women, as the National Movement Party Group, as the community, to pay our respects to all of our women, to express our embarrassment to them from the stand of the nation. Indeed, dear MPs, she is our most precious asset, our mother. So she's the founder of our generation, our future. Our wife, the woman we shared our lives with, shared our secrets with, our companion in life. Our lovely children are women, our daughters. So today we are discussing a law in a hurry of the scale of violence against them. We've made laws like this before. You know, there was also the Law on Protection of the 4320 family released in 1998. There are other laws, I don't know too many details, but I know there are. There are international contracts, there are NGOs, there are meetings, there are many actions, but unfortunately -- I regret to say -- violence to women, domestic violence is increasing every day. It's the responsibility of all of us, not to blame a place or a government or anything, but to express a conclusion. There is a conclusion that does not suit Turkey, does not suit the Turkish nation, does not suit the values of civilization of this nation, does not suit the values of faith. I want to say this result as an expression of concern for our future as a social wound far beyond using the material of politics as an instrument of opposition politics as a means of blaming power. Today, the case that exacerbates her violently is at the point of social insanity. Every day... Of course, I'd like to point out that the government is here, in charge of the media, responsible for the media, responsible for the press, and the Minister here is here; we need to develop a measure for the publication of sheets on the television of this woman's violence, the examples of social insanity, the news of her news. It's not preventing work, it's raising social sensitivity, I'm worried, it's encouraging. So, dear lawmakers, we may have a lot of problems, but if we can't get our women, who are the founder of our future out of this violence, to trust in this self-esteem, and save life from the level of violence that they share with their spouse, it's not going to be very realistic that we, at work, have a vision of the great Turkey. There's a poll in the papers today that I know you've all seen. I believe, dear lawmakers, that our fellow citizens who follow us, should be able to beat this poll with two hundred percent because we have a culture that is ashamed to share our pain, to express it, to complain about it, to have no grudges, to be a society that doesn't hold a grudge. For him, the violence he sees from his wife is ashamed to speak to the journalist, to another, our woman. However, today's poll was published in the newspapers -- March 8th, Women's Day -- 40.7 per cent of the women working in the poll published today -- while 46.9% of the non-workers expressed physical violence from their spouses. I believe that we have to multiply it by twice as much, and as a wife, I apologize in front of all our women, our nation, because this is a reality, this is our reality, this is the reality of society. Whatever causes this society to come to this point, we need to curse and take the necessary precautions together, and we can't accept that. These, these women are the mothers of our children. Is it possible for a child whose mother was beaten to embrace life to make Turkey the leading country Turkey? Dear friends, Your Honor, you may have a lot of problems, you may have a lot of reasons to brag, but you need to get up from this point and show the magnitude of apologizing to this community, as well as bringing a measure to this conclusion about women. Really bitter, dear friends. I repeat, I'm not speaking for criticism, I'm expressing a conclusion. If we can't express this result in all its simplicity, in all its pain, in all its pain, in a way that hurts us, in order to improve its measures as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, with power and opposition, then we're in the wrong. At the point of building the future, by condemning our women, our mothers, to such disgrace, we are literally throwing our own future, our country's future into the abyss. Therefore, dear friends, women, family and children, three of our most precious assets. Now, we're talking about a law that targets the child, aims to program the child: 4+4+4. It's not just a law, we're planning a generation's future, but here, unfortunately, again, we're not talking about each other to understand each other, we're even fighting. If we're fighting without trying to understand each other, we need to stop and think about it on a day when violence is spoken of, when a law on the education of a child is discussed. Dear lawmakers, let's not kid ourselves. The result is a state of social insanity, where irresponsibility is at its peak, as a result. If he's still using violence as a tool on a day like this, there's not much left to say about the Great National Assembly of Turkey. I express my sorrows. Despite the fact that this law has been passed, it's true, it's necessary, it's useful, it means we'll support it, I give you all respect.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0047par0534	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr. İlknur Denizli, İzmir MP; on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Denizli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0048par0539	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the second chapter of the Law Bill for the Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute you all. March 8th, I celebrate the Day of Women of the World with all the days of the year, wishing that women would live with respect and love and live in the near future. There's a bit of sadness today about the excitement of celebrating the 8th of March. What increases our sadness is that women continue to be subjected to violence. Women say Attila Ilhan in the Autumn poem: Women start to shed autumn leaves/Titrek a blonde pulse disappears, blood thirsts, circulation slows down. This is exactly the kind of grief we're in. Every news we hear, every photo we see hurts our insides. When we can't stand even one, we see a few of them; when we can't digest one, when we can't digest another, we're shaken by a new news of violence, but we have to deal with it in cold blood, and that's our job. We need to deal with what happened, why, how they came out, in short, in all aspects of the problem, and find ways of getting out, ways of preventing it. We have to make sure that women trust their government, every officer of the state, every police officer. In every city in this country, we need to make it possible for women to live safely during day and night travel or work in their town. They should be able to take the protection of the state in their most difficult moments. In short, we realize that we need to shield women, hope for women. We're trying to do everything and more that this responsibility requires. Our work continues to grow day after day. In an effort to put an end to the sadness we face, our government is working hard, working hard, trying to build forward hopes. Strategic efforts are being conducted to achieve lasting and healthy solutions, not just today, but in the future. Women's responsibilities, their actions, and their actions are vital to a country. If we try to count what we're gonna lose without women's support, it's gonna be a long list. Unfortunately, the woman who was brought up today as a subject of violence is actually a cure for violence in her name and in the name of the whole community. Those who approach her violently live in the midst of violence which they carry within themselves, though they are unaware. Their view of the world, their use of things, their use of nature, even their view of themselves is violent. They've fallen into the grip of violence from a deeper place. We need the woman's mind, her heart, and her hard work to be eradicated by all the resources of violence. Without our women, we can't protect not only our country, but the world and our time of evil from violence. I'm not just talking about physical violence, I'm trying to describe the sense of violence that has settled inside of us and is increasingly in control of our bodies, and I'm trying to describe the violence that darkens our souls, that captures our will. There's a history of violence on Earth, of nature, of things, of society, of history. We must get rid of it, save ourselves, our country, our environment, even our age. You know, violence is a learning, visually mimicked form of behavior. It can only be done through training to stop violence from being one of the ways that can be applied in any way. It is only women who will take responsibility for this long - term modeling and teaching effort. Tomorrow's adult women and men will be the ones who prepare a completely unviolent environment for today's children. Let's keep counting what we're missing without a woman. Without our women, we can't raise our democracy, we can't put our democracy on solid ground. Please don't take this as just a statement for March 8th. After all, democracy is the name of a regime based on mutual empathy, tolerance. It's a regime designed to respect the presence of one another, to respect his views, to protect his rights. It leans not on brute force, but on the power to come together, to form common ideas, but on the power of democracy and its approach, to establish partnerships by looking at balances, which only women can strengthen and multiply. The unseen but strongly felt effects of women in this area are clear. Without our women, if we don't include them in the production process, there's no way we can increase our production. Can you imagine a population of half the population not contributing enough to production? Is there room in agriculture, in industry, in the service industry, in the competitive economic system of the modern world for lack of female contribution? If we didn't have women, where would our social relationships, our respect, our love, our kindness go? What happens to our neighbors, our friendships, our cooperation? Women, as in every field, are essential to the creation and protection of social tissue. Then we must all move the woman to her rightful place. We should care about him, put him at the center of the social structure. We need to put our strength and our heart into it, not with precision and not with words, but with our actions and actions, but whatever we do, we need to know that what's done is that it's just regulations, it's laws, it's the changing of the mind. I believe that one day, in Turkey, the mentality will change, and we will not speak of such laws in these parliaments, and I give all of you respect.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0049par0554	Thank you, Mr. Denizli. On behalf of the individuals, Tekirdağ MP Özlem Yemişçi. Mr. Yeshchi, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0050par0558	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second chapter of the Law Bill on Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute our High Council with love and respect. Our women, before, lived within four walls of violence. It's said that statistics increase when you look at the past years. Those who say this do not know that there is no solution to the fear of the state, when they were before the government. The women who said, "They are no longer afraid to tell our state about the violence that took place between the four walls. Violence has not increased, just the ones that have been mopped under the carpet in the past years have come to light. Our women now believe in our government, our women trust in our government, and our women know best how hard it is to earn women's trust. A woman's hand is a mother's hand. I don't need to ask you what your mothers mean to you. The establishment of nonviolent and monitoring centers, of course, will not immediately end violence, but it will keep the measurements in hand. You can't control what you can't measure, you can't take precautions, you can't find a solution. The steps our High Council has taken are a guarantee that this issue will be resolved in the future. When you put it on your arm, it will suit you. When you hit the wall, it will stick. We make history as the government of the AK PARTY. Oh, we're not going to hold a grudge and hate against that mentality, let alone crush them against the wall and put them in history. We'll train them, teach them who the woman is. We women are the first and last instructors of children raised to society. We have a lot of compassion for our children. Once we mix the dough into politics, the abundance of that dough reflects on politics. Our women believe in intimacy. Our women believe in your word. Our women believe in justice in the face of injustice. That's why our women believe in the Justice and Development Party. Our women believe in Fatma Şahin, our Minister of Family and Social Policy, who can locate and address women's problems by traveling through the district, the district, and the city. Our women believe and trust our Prime Minister. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our women, who share every aspect of life with men, who offer the values they produce to humanity like men, to multiply both in economics and in politics. Let the woman's point of view become evident in politics as it does in every field. Women are the main source of social dynamics that push society forward. She's the one who shapes new generations in the role of motherhood. Therefore, investment in women is an investment in the future. We have to remember, it's not justified, it's taken. When the Great Leader Ataturk established our republic, he believed that women and men would live with this fire forever. Violence prevention centres, monitoring centres, which work on the basis of seven days and 24 hours of support and monitoring services, will be available to experts and preferably women staff for the effective implementation of preventive and preventive measures by preventing violence. Happy World Women's Day, March 8th. Not just on March 8th, but on every day, with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0051par0566	Thank you, Mr. Yeshchi. In the name of his people...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0052par0568	Mr. President, sir, we're discussing a very important bill. It's World Working Women's Day. On a day like this, we're discussing a bill on family protection and preventing violence against women. As the Republican People's Party, it is a law that we support against its shortcomings, and we wish it to be legalized today, but the ranks of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey are very empty, especially the ranks of the ruling party are very empty. We would like such a bill to be legislated with much broader participation. That's why we'd like the number of decisions you're going to make in the first vote, sir. I'm telling you right now, let's get the ruling party ready and get this law together, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0053par0570	Mr. President, I agree with Mr. Hamzacebi. I looked at the ruling party group, 60 to 70 people, about 25 percent of our number.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0054par0571	36 people, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0053par0572	I looked at the opposition group, there are 8 people, 5 percent of their numbers. So I would like to thank Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0055par0573	I'm inviting our friends from the Justice and Development Party to join us.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0053par0574	We're inviting all political parties here, sir. They're right.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0056par0575	Yes, thank you for the warning. However, in the meantime, most of our female deputies, women's deputies, are at some meetings, universities, social activities, unions. We can excuse them in that way, but we'd still like to have the majority of the House here, of course.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0057par0577	We had programs, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0056par0578	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Now, Mr. Aylin Nazlıaka is the Ankara MP? No. Then we'll move on to the question-answer part. Now, I'm going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. I'll take turns making promises to our friends who are in the system. Dear Ancestor...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0058par0584	Mr. President, thank you. Let me point out to Mr. Secretary, although today our Minister is not here, and we may not be able to get an answer right now, but we do care that an answer is given. As of 2012, we'd like to know the number of imprisoned and convicted women held in prisons. And again, we'd like to know the number of female prisoners and prisoners that have been tried under the jurisdiction of the special official criminal courts, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0059par0587	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0060par0589	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we are all aware that shelters and temporary stations are vital to women who are subjected to violence. In Mardin province, there is no shelter for women exposed to violence. Women exposed to violence in Mardin have to live in a foster home. Women's institutions' talks with local authorities and governors have been unsuccessful, unfortunately. Do you plan to open a shelter and temporary station in Mardin? Do you have any work on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0061par0592	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0062par0594	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many shelters are there in which districts, as they call it, still in our country? How many of our women are in these shelters? From what I've seen in this bill, it wasn't included. Is such an addition to the arrangement intended for women who have taken refuge in shelters to protect themselves from both education and violence? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0063par0597	Thank you. Mr. Chancer? No. Mr. Aksoy...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0064par0600	I have two questions for the Minister. Have there been third parties using the right to report mentioned in the Istanbul Convention, and how many are there? That's my first question. My second question: violence data against women by human rights organizations and women organizations is revealed to the public at specific times. Do you think your ministry has done any work on that subject, if there is, to explain it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0065par0604	Mr. Furman...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0066par0605	Today, on March 8th, women in many parts of Turkey wanted to go out on the streets to express their rights and demands. Article 34 of the Constitution shall register that all citizens, without prior permission, have the right to hold meetings and demonstrations, but women who have gone out to the streets in Mersin are not allowed to march. Under Pervin Buldan, women who were here on the street were forced to strike a sit-in. In this regard, I would like to know if the government has previously warned the supervisors of property for demonstrations on March 8th, in order to show special sensitivity at the time of this law, and to facilitate the use of women's rights.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0065par0606	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. Mr. Tuncel...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0067par0608	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary with your intervention. In this bill, especially in the last chapter, about the assigned staff -- I just told you on the stand -- there's a number 362 in it, and there are no lawyers in it. In fact, women also need serious legal support. How do they think they're going to solve this problem with this, and they're going to expand it? Second -- women's organisations are very curious -- is there going to be a separate budget on this, so is the Ministry going to have a study on a separate budget for preventing violence against women, at least in budget talks, even if it isn't now? The other issue, in fact, is today World Laboring Women's Day, and many women and many workers are actually fired. There are Campana leather workers who have been in the resistance for three hundred and fifty-three days, and there are textile workers. Is there any data at the Ministry on this? I mean, how many women have been fired from work so far, because of the union struggle, and does the Ministry of Family and Social Policy have a study on how to compensate for their situation here?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0068par0613	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0069par0615	Mr. President, I'd like to introduce the number of prisoners and prisoners that Mr. AtaEST has asked of us in 2012 to the Ministry of Justice. According to the figures provided by the woman's Status General Directorate, 55 women's shelters and capacitys are 1,223. Local authorities have 26 women's shelters, capacity 614. The NGOs have three, and this one has 42 capacity. So, in total, 84 women's shelters have 1,879 capacities, I present. The question of how many shelters is in which district of Mr. Light is located is included in this answer. The women's shelter and guesthouse for this Mardin is not available at this time, and we would like to introduce our work to you by the Ministry. Is there a budget in the Ministry for violence against the woman asked by Mr. Tuncel? That's within the law. The budget will be cut, and if it's not enough, it's being scrutinized by the law to demand from the general budget. I'll answer the other questions in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0070par0622	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the 14th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of legislation on the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. In the final sentence to his joke, "The attorneys assigned by the Bars will also serve at the violent prevention and monitoring centers to be established. The fee for lawyers is determined by the Ministry and the Bar Association; the payment is made from the Ministry budget." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adding "one step" to Article 1 of Article 14 of the 181 bill, after the declaration of "working" in Article 1 of the 14th amendment, To get to the end of his 2nd joke, "These centers continue to work in co-operation with women's organisations in the field," It's coming up after the 2nd joke and adding the following joke, (3) If there is also a crime against the requirements of an informed decision, the necessary legal procedures for this crime will begin without delay." Mr. Commission, do you agree with the final motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0071par0634	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0070par0635	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0072par0636	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0070par0637	Mr. Ata, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0073par0638	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 14th Amendment of the law. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the co-operation between women organisations who work in the field and the violence against women, and the joint work of institutional and public institutions that have placed preventive services or protective services in this area, of course, is crucial at the point of the problem. Article 14 is also referred to joint work. In this joint work part of our proposal, if there is also a violation of the demands of a decision, then a clause in the form of the law on this crime will begin without delay. And again, to get to the end of the second joke, these centers continue to work in cooperation with women's organisations in the field. We demand that the declaration added to the field be added and added after the word "work." The sensitivity of women organisations in this regard is very important: Public institutions are unable to achieve success by ignoring the will provided by women organisations working in this field, ignoring intimacy, ignoring service. Because we're dealing with the fact that a lot of women who are victims of violence have gone to independent labor institutions instead of going to a public institution, which is the most natural thing to do. Let's put it this way: At least as far as our constituency, women face violence, violence, violence in every aspect of life, a fact, but there is also social violence in our environment. It's March 8th. We face violence against women who march on March 8th, even at protests and events, in Istanbul, in Mersin. There are obstacles to the woman going to a public institution and saying, "I am a victim of violence. I am a victim of violence." Women go to law enforcement or to a public institution where they are concerned about their children, for their wives, for their brothers and sisters, and they don't say, "We are victims of violence, protect us." They don't say or say. But independent women's organizations make a very meaningful effort, and it's much easier for a women's institution -- and a woman who listens, if she does it voluntarily -- to knock on her door and ask for services. Dear lawmakers, it is a fact that if we can make the violence exposed in all areas of life visible and known, then we can take the first step in preventing violence. Look, we mentioned it yesterday. The perpetrators of women's massacres can still be a common perception in society, often considered a hero. We need to be able to make violence visible, to make it known and condemned, to make it unacceptable, so that the person who did this would not have the courage to go public with it, to have the public to worry about what society would think of me when we did it. We should all be able to do this together. Again, when we look at the data provided by the relevant ministries of the administration -- particularly the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, and also by the name of the woman who is not in charge of the woman -- it is very inadequate. We want this data to be visible. Human rights organizations, women's organizations, they share this information with the public, but then again, it's not as much news as women's murders on the third page of newspapers, it's not so obvious or known. At this point, we feel that there should be a co-operation between public institutions and civil society organisations working independently, working voluntarily, working women's organisations, working primarily as much as it is said to exist among public institutions. Again, if the victim of violence had the courage to expose it, to go after it -- which is, there's a awareness and training to get it out, because it's often in the family. With his understanding and the responsibility of being a young woman, this information remains hidden, hidden from the public, not even in the family -- if it's the courage to show it, it's the ability to complete all operations in the single center from the moment it's been made. Therefore, we would like to add a single step to the top of the sentence specified here, on the basis of seven days and twenty-four hours. She shouldn't be taken to more than one institution. Again... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0074par0650	Mr. Ata, thank you, sir. I submit to you the motion of the Ancestor and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of legislation on the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. In the final sentence to his joke, "The attorneys assigned by the Bars will also serve at the violent prevention and monitoring centers to be established. The fee for lawyers is determined by the Ministry and the Bar Association; the payment is made from the Ministry budget." We offer and offer to add his testimony. Engin Özkoç (Sacaria) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0075par0657	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0074par0658	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0076par0659	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0074par0660	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0077par0661	Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0074par0662	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0078par0665	Mr. President, he's speaking...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0074par0666	Mr. Ozkoc, these are the things that need to be distributed backstage.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0079par0667	Mr. President, is there an obstacle to the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0074par0668	Yes, sir. Yes, nothing is disbanded in Congress without permission, but today our friend is giving it to the ladies, so let's not say anything. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0080par0670	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0081par0671	Mr. Ozkoc, you didn't give it to the CHP Group.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0080par0672	They're my sir... I've given it to you before, I've given it to you before. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect, love, respect. Today is a very important day; it's Women's Day. First, I'd like to start by celebrating Women's Day here, honoring and loving her, by kissing the hands of my favorite mother, who I think I'll never be able to repay in my life, who I love the most, who I've ever loved, who I've celebrated the Women's Day of all Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0082par0675	Sister-in-law will be taken, tell her something!
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0080par0676	If I wasn't single, I'd say something to her, too. I'm sorry, sir. Yes, I pay my respects. Now, sir, we're talking about something, our rights to our women. We're talking about how to glorify them, our women. Who's going to give these rights? Men will give you the rights. In what capacity will they give our women these rights? So if someone gives him a point, he thinks he's better than her, but there's nothing better than our women. We have a complex like this. That's how we see ourselves, that's how we feel. That's what we see in ourselves. So we act against our women as if we can give them a right, as if we have the right to give them what they deserve. It's, for one thing, fundamentally wrong. Our women, really -- I've just heard, right now, even at the celebration of Women's Day, our women are getting beaten up -- it's a terrible thing, really, it's a terrible thing for them to be sexually harassed, but there's something scarier about our women. Dear lawmakers, dear women; a woman, who can endure the persecution, even more than a man; a woman, who can endure all the sufferings, suffer poverty, endure torture, endure abuse, but can't bear the pain of her child; a woman can't bear the destruction of her children's future. The only thing he can't stand is the life of his children, and the future of his children, which burns her heart, and the strength of his resistance. From here, without any tension, without any sense of party, without ideological understanding, I speak to everyone: Those who are concerned about their children who died in the van, our women are suffering more than they are being tortured. Our women who lost their children in the mines suffer more. Mothers who have been wronged in prisons suffer more. With decisions on education at the National Education Commission now made, our women suffer more and more because their children were brought back to work at an early age and their children had been married at an early age. There are some issues. My dear friends, we all have to love each other. AKP, CHP, MPP, these are just the adjectives we created. We don't come into the world with any adjectives, we give them to each other, we put them together, we determine who's superior, and we determine who's privileged. There is one thing we must do, and we must open our hearts to one another with love. We need to open our hearts about how to understand each other, how to love each other, how to embrace each other. Aren't the women of the AKP our mothers, sisters, brothers? Don't our hearts burn when the mothers of BDP burn? How do we separate mothers of the DP and all the mothers of Turkey, all the brothers, by view, by ideology? In a happy country, I embrace you all, sir, in the hope of living in a world where women can give us our rights and give us our rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0083par0687	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Ozkoc and his friends: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 14 is accepted. There are two motions on the 15th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft law on protecting family number 181 and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. In the final sentence of the joke d) we respectfully propose and offer the addition of "The 24/7 work of the call center, to the establishment of mobile teams, and to ensure that mobile teams, including women's personnel, will serve the victims of violence on appeals." To the presidency of TBM, 15 of the 181 Sequential Legislature. Article (1). The joke is to add the bell below. ▪ By violence prevention and monitoring centers; by providing psychological diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation support for the victim of violence, treatment and rehabilitation of individuals who will prevent violence as well as prevent violence; by providing psychological diagnosis and treatment for all family members, or by providing employment at violent prevention and monitoring centres, if necessary, at full public and private sector institutions. Does the commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0084par0697	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0083par0698	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0085par0699	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0083par0700	On the motion, Mr. Wise Light. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0086par0703	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss the motion that we're discussing on the protection of the family number 181 and the prevention of violence against the woman on Article 15 of the Law Bill. On this occasion, I salute you all, first celebrating our women's March 8th World Women's Day. But at the beginning of my remarks, I would like to express my regret about an incident that took place today under the great roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Yes, we're talking about preventing violence for our women, but I'm afraid today I'm saying violence to another member of our ruling party's MP is a case that will be condemned in front of the world and returned to the one who does it with hate. If this is opened up, if this event is closed with a sense of party privacy, valuable lawmakers, this country will be a disgrace. I would like to take this opportunity to share it with you, and I strongly condemn my friend who did it, and I'm sure that if he hadn't done it, he would have suffered it later. Dear lawmakers, our motion is a motion to add another one to the support services of the violence prevention and monitoring centers established by this law, as our Clerk Member has just read. And what we would like to add is that we would like to put a mission by these centers specifically to this center, which will provide the education of all violent, violent, or affected family members. Thus, especially psychological diagnosis and treatment support will prevent both violence and other family members from falling behind and being affected by it. Therefore, one of the most effective ways to prevent violence is to make psychological diagnosis and treatment mandatory. Psychological observations and reports from all individuals who are violent and affected by violence are important to prevent violence and protect individuals. This motion is a motion that ensures that such a task be granted to the centre legally. I hope the High Assembly will see it in its place and make an important contribution to the preservation of the family's continuity. Thanks to psychological reports and rehabilitation treatments on this situation, the decision will be made especially by the family judge to make effective and accurate decisions, so decisions based solely on police testimony will be made to be new decisions based on a more effective and solid basis. He asks for the support of our motion with these feelings and thoughts, and I also congratulate all the employees who have been involved in the preparation of this law. It's an important step, an important step, even if it's a law that may not save a lot of people, even though it's incomplete, and I congratulate everyone who's done what they're doing. In the final sentence, I think one of the important ways in which our women can be protected from violence is to strengthen that part financially, as well as the education they will be given them. Otherwise, any individual whose education is inadequate, and whose economic support and power is inadequate -- not only our women, but every individual in this community -- will continue to be severely distressed, and unfortunately, these kinds of violence that we do not want will not diminish. Because as long as economic difficulties continue in Turkey, it is really difficult to prevent these events, and it is also important to start with education and to develop the economy and spread it to the whole community bases. Again, on this occasion, I salute you all, and ask for your support in the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0087par0711	Thank you, Mr. Light. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Light and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 15th draft law on protecting family number 181 and preventing violence against women. Article 1 of the article. In the final sentence of the joke d) we respectfully propose and offer the addition of "The 24/7 work of the call center, to the establishment of mobile teams, and to ensure that mobile teams, including women's personnel, will serve the victims of violence on appeals." Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0088par0718	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0087par0719	Government? We don't agree. Who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0089par0722	Mr. Mahmut Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0087par0723	Mr. Tanal, Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0090par0725	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today is March 8th World Women's Labor Day. I'm celebrating World Women's Labor Day. Of course, you don't talk about a person's business. Today, the Security Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, in Mersin, and İstanbul, unfortunately, is also implementing violence against women. Why did I tell you that a man's wife is a man's business? This finger of mine is broken by violence in this House, in that way. Today, our women on the streets are being subjected to violence again by police officers with staff from the Police Department. Today, in the same way, violence is being enforced by the political power of the National Education Commission. I mean, it's really nice to say nice things here in this respect, but I'm telling you now... how many undersecretaries are there in the 24th term, how many of the undersecretaries are women, dear friends? How many undersecretary assistants are there in the 24th term, how many undersecretary women are there? As of today, how many general managers are in charge of the bureaucracy, how many of them are women? How many regional managers are there, how many are women? How many bureaucrats are there at the top of the Interior Ministry, how many of these bureaucrats are women? Even though 40 per cent of the teachers in Turkey are women, how many of the top 27 people in the Ministry of National Education are women? Although 35 per cent of the engineers in Turkey are women, 30 per cent of doctors are women, there is not a single female bureaucrat in a high-ranking position at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health. Although 33 per cent of lawyers in the country are women, what is the number of senior bureaucrats in the Ministry of Justice? The answer to all of this is really, here's what the stage of the woman has come to. But, of course, when I say that, I'm glad to see that in the laws that have been discussed so far -- probably because of the Minister of the Family -- the highest number of women from senior bureaucrats, the ministry in charge of women and family -- I'm happy to congratulate themselves. Now, when you look at it from this frame, dear friends, if it's so much discrimination... now that I'm out of my pocket... this is my birth certificate, dear friends, and this is the birth certificate of a female congressman friend. Why do we feel this need for color? I mean, why don't we change the color of these birth certificates in the first place? Likewise, our same friend is a congressman. His identity and my identity are the same color. Our same friend has a driver's license, our driver's license colors are the same. We have the same friend registered in the bar, the same way, the same bar ID card. So, political power, who's holding your hand? So why do you make the color distinction of the birth certificate in the Population Law -- same license, same bar ID, same passport, same identity, same identity? Right away, in this sense, a separate color birth certificate in the Population Law will be issued. It must be ended in the form of discrimination. Civil Law 194. Since we're protecting the woman, dear friends... the Minister of Environment and Urbanism was just here, writing to the head of Tapu Kadastro, sir, they say don't commit family housing without a court order. We're very comfortable here... and the Minister is here. If only there was a Minister of the Family here yesterday, we asked him, and we said, "Please, between the two ministries, what's the Minister of Environment and Urbanism doing writing to Tapu and Kadastro Directorate, don't commit Tapu harm... There are obstacles in the penal code. Although the Civil Law has been given open authority in 194, there is also a measure in this law, this measure, dear friends, that will not be processed again. So the lawmaker doesn't do anything stupid. I warned his dear friends yesterday. The definition of violence is not social. Well, a speaker friend of ours just made a promise, he said: "Sir, there is social violence in the media." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But would it be all right if we put this concept of social life into context? The Prime Minister himself said...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0091par0740	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0090par0741	I don't believe in equality between men and women. The Prime Minister needs to change his mind first.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0091par0742	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0090par0743	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0091par0745	I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Tanal and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are four motions on the 16th article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the terms of "social gender" from the text following the declaration of "the syllabus" in the subsection of Article 16 of the current Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women. The number 181 bill is 16. In the third part of the article, we propose the addition of the declaration of social gender equality after "at least 90 minutes on the moon." Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Levent Tüzel 16 of the 181 Numbered Legislature. In the article (3), we propose the sanctity and integrity of the family, the place of the family in religious and universal values, and the equality of the gender, the addition of the terms of the family, after the statement of the family for at least 90 minutes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows of legislation on the protection of the family and preventing violence against women. Article 7. "Further, privates and privates who serve as soldiers in the Turkish Armed Forces are trained by experts in gender, human rights of women and equality of women." We'll supply and offer to add his joke. Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0092par0758	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0091par0759	Your Majesty? We don't agree. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0093par0762	Mr. Veli Agha.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0091par0763	Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0094par0765	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the esteemed MPs, March 8th Women's Labor Day. I salute you all. In particular, I would like to point out that today is not Women's Day, but today is the World Day of Working Women, and no one has been given it. Working women have stripped their own roses from the exploitation order of the capitalist empire with their hands and their hearts. If you empty out the truth, you'll have nothing. To nullify this day, to ignore working women, is the most unfair thing to do to them. Now, I'd like to tell you about the women's landscapes from our hometown. I am the MP of Malatya. Let's start with a woman's story in Malatya. A mother collects paper to feed her children, one four-year-old, one eight-year-old, with a cart in her hand on rainy days, without saying it's cold. I've met him a few times, is there anything I can do? I said I'd help you. But she wanted to live on her own, she refused. Dear MPs, Kübra Nazar Bakırcı was a two-and-a-half-month-old baby, starved to death in April 2011 in the lap of his mother. The AKP government heard of this, pressuring the police department to change the death certificate, making the cause of death not hungry, but written. Forensics confirmed it, the Kubra baby, as a figure of shame, went to the grave without walking. Now, let me tell you about the sights I made last Monday at the Copperville Women's Prison: Gift Aksoy, two eyes blind, breast cancer and years in prison. The coroner's report says 85 percent can't see their needs alone, can't stay in prison. The gift wants a slippers that don't slip, a flip-flop that doesn't slide, but unfortunately, the Justice Department won't give me this non-slide slipper. Jasmine, Montenegro, has no imprisoned friends -- not in charge, not in prison -- has a kidney that works 18 percent; she has had a brain bleed before, has dropped from 1.60 to 1.53. Her weight has dropped from 50 to 40. The AKP sends the police to the hospital, asking the doctors when Jasmine will die. Jasmine will be released when she comes to the brink of death. Fatma Tokmak does not speak Turkish, he is subjected to torture, and there are still traces of cigarettes extinguished on his 1 and a half-year-old son, Azat. Yet Fatma Tokmak, who has a heart disease, is not being evacuated. In the same prison, precious friends stay with their daughters, two mothers. He's a straight doctor, Nazire Ayata Civelek, a teacher. They have to raise their daughter in prison as a result of an unfair decision. The AKP sees too many toys for children. Do you guys know what the Nazire Teacher's little daughter, Shana? What do you want to be when you grow up? The answer to the question is: When I grow up, I will be released. I don't know if you mothers and fathers have dreams. Sheema Özcan, student of the History Department of Boğaziçi University, is one of Turkey's brightest students. He's talking to a lawyer about applying for an internship, and he's applying for an internship. He's being detained from organization membership, and the lawyer he's talking to is free. She's a student at Derya Tayagen Information University. He's accused of membership in a terrorist organization for joining four panels. The rights to education are being taken away, dear friends. Dear friends, again, who have been on the agenda a lot lately, Fevziye Genghis. Fevzie, the police officer of the AKP, handcuffed his arms at the police station and slapped him. There's been no action against the police until it's in the press. I'll leave it to your appreciation if the mindset that protects a woman from beating a woman at the station can prevent violence. Dear friends, March 8th, World Laboring Women's Day is everyone's. You know every woman has the right to celebrate today. Again, I would like to give you an example of a woman named Hatice Harman in Malatya, whose child dies in prison, who carries her picture at a rally on Laboring Women's Day. Hatice has accused Harman of membership in a terrorist organization for months, for nearly eight or nine months. His answer is interesting, he says: "Even though you judge me, you execute me, I will continue to carry my daughter's picture in my heart, in my breast." In 2006, Whiteıt Square was turned into a women's square. I don't know if a mindset of violence at his own station, his own prison, his own workplace, can prevent violence on the streets, on the house. We've just received word that a group of women protesting in Istanbul are being put in prison for kicking, for protesting; this is how the World Laboring Women's Day is celebrated. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0095par0782	Mr. Agha, thank you. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Agbaba and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 16 of the 181 Numbered Legislature. In the article (3), we propose the sanctity and integrity of the family, the place of the family in religious and universal values, and the equality of the gender, the addition of the terms of the family, after the statement of the family for at least 90 minutes. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0096par0789	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0095par0790	Your Majesty? We don't agree. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0097par0793	Mr Enver Erdem, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0095par0794	Mr. Enver Erdem speaking.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0098par0796	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on the motion on the 16th Amendment of the Law Bill on Protection of the Family and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute your grand delegation, and congratulate all the women's March 8th, Women's Day. Dear lawmakers, many speakers have expressed their valuable views on this bill, but I would like to say once again that it is not possible for the family to be protected or prevented from violence against women by law alone, with these regulations. The solution to the problem will be education. In the 21st century, we all know very well that for all the nations of the world, there will be a ranking among the nations of the world according to the training he has given to his citizens, his children, his women, his family, and his people. Dear lawmakers, the foundation of society begins with family, and the foundation of family begins with marriage. Actually, it's the most important thing, and I think that's where the knot is. In our country, it must be prepared for the institution of marriage, which is the most important decision of life, through a school or education programme, through a number of programs that women and men will first recognize themselves, then the opposite sex. I am a person who has completed two universities from within the practice and has worked in various parts of Turkey as a bureaucrat for more than 20 years. In 2003, in Sakarya Province, Karasu district, in terms of the solution to this problem, I tried to bring some education programmes under the name of marriage schools, to our people there with the University of Sakarya, and to contribute to the solution of this problem, even if only a little bit. Dear lawmakers, these marriage schools are extremely important. Our Ministry today has some initiatives at the point of implementing such programs on various occasions, not necessarily, but I believe it would be right for all of our people to go through these training programs by turning it into mandatory programs. You all know that marriage only happens once in a lifetime, 99%. Even in the use of ordinary tools and materials, people are being passed through some training programs, but men and women are entering this process without any knowledge of life's most important action. Then we're talking about violence against women. So, with these marriage programs, first of all, the solution to these problems needs to be made aware of both men and women. In addition, in this program, a lot of information about the education of the child to come should be given to our people on this occasion about the solution to the problems that will arise. After marriage becomes a ball of problems, we now know that by making laws, the solution to this problem will not be very possible. They said, "God bless you, for we have never been able to sit in the college lines of our lives. " You have given us the pleasure of sitting at university desks under these programs, which is what our women were saying. We, each of us, were involved in problems in the way that we needed a psychiatrist, a psychologist. On these occasions, you have reduced our problems with these training programmes. Dear lawmakers, I believe it would be much easier for our people to resolve these problems by passing through this kind of educational program, where our material, spiritual, social and values are also intertwined. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish this law to be a blessing to our people, to our women, to our men, to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0099par0808	Your Grace, thank you. I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Erdem and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We propose the addition of the declaration of social gender equality after "at least 90 minutes on the moon" in Article 3 of Article 16 of the 181 bill. Ayla Akat (Batman) and her friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0100par0815	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0099par0816	Government? We don't agree. Mr. Ata, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0101par0819	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion for the 16th amendment of the law. I salute you all. Frankly, we're in a state of confusion. Why? Because the proposed law clause, as part of the third joke, makes education a target for the use of media by visual and written publications. Again, in Article 6 of the sixth article, the elementary education and secondary school curriculum includes a part of the study of gender, human rights and equality of women and women. We have stated that the concept of social gender (also referred to in the 6th article) should be included in the 3rd article. Next thing we know, the ruling party has made a motion, and on the contrary, they've cut out the part where our students in primary school and secondary school are educated in gender equality, which is part of the sixth joke. Now, we're looking at the motion, right, here are the signatures of three boyfriends, but there are signatures of the President of the Women's Equality Commission. How did this arrangement for the first and middle school students to receive education on gender equality take place here? While we were surprised -- because it wasn't part of the definition, we thought it was overlooked. The ruling party wanted to remove it, too. Again, Oya Eronat, Sermin Fish, Nurdan Şanlı, three other female deputies. Let's let the male trustees ask if he wants to. Women's MPs should at least put their hands on gender equality, especially when it comes to education for the first and middle school students, and say, "This is what we want. I mean, every conversation we've had here since yesterday has been highlighted as education, but we're coming, we're going to make it legal, we're going to make it visible, we're going to make it known, we're competing with concepts, we're going to argue with concepts. These are the above-national concepts, which are already above our laws as part of the 90th article of the Constitution. We've signed over national contracts, agreed to them, and we're responsible for the fact that we signed those signatures in our own civil law. So how come we're competing with these concepts today, and we don't want to be involved? What is the mentality behind this? How do you explain that? You know, we asked Mr. Elitas, before we spoke here, it's not right. We said, "It's not right." We said, "It's our principled approach." That's what we thought at first, and that's what we're going to do until the end. There's... there's a point to a wrong turn, I guess, a wrong turn. It's about education, and we're at a point where it's so impregnable to teach it. How are we going to raise young generations? Violence in the social community, violence in the economic climate, political violence. How will these youths assess the problem of women, the problem of youth, outside the atmosphere of violence? Everyone has a responsibility, and we want to underline that. We are aware of the importance of education, of course, to remove violence from life, but we think that the approach of political power, which has taken a vote from two people in Turkey, is as important as education. We believe that the message to the public is very important and valuable to be a role model here. The political power here has lost credibility by drafting this motion and presenting it here. On the contrary, if the time of the publications is 90 minutes, it should be increased further. If the first one is included in the secondary school curriculum, it should be increased further. Besides, we don't see it as a subject of curriculum, even a lesson should be given when necessary. I don't know if it was in yours in our schooling years, but there have been classes in closed sports halls. Maybe it's their subject, but we're taking it off, taking it off the curriculum, making it out to be a subject of education, that's not true. That's exactly what he needs to see in that curriculum, the concept of our young, our children's social gender equality. It is also important that he sees in his family as much in social life as he sees in the material he reads and learns in social life. Now, here, the political power reveals its position to the public. It will make it debatable what the Minister has laid out so far. It's our responsibility, yours. We don't think it's a right attitude to be afraid of putting it in instead of decoding concepts that fuel discrimination in the curriculum, which are incompatible with gender equality, and we're asking our motion to accept it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0102par0827	Thank you, Mr. Ancestor. I submit to you the motion of the Ancestor and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the removal of the terms of "social gender" from the text following the declaration of "the syllabus" in the subsection of Article 16 of the current Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women. Pelin Günş Bakır (Kayseri) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0103par0834	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0102par0835	Government? INTERVIEWING, WE AGREE.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0104par0837	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0102par0838	I'm reading the reason: This motion was made, since the expression of equality of women and men is considered to mean something broader. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 16th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article has been accepted. There are three motions on the 17th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We're in 181 rows where we're talking about the protection of the family and the prevention of violence against women. Article 1 of the article. In the final sentence of the joke, we propose and propose the addition of the "Temporary financial aid is to be carried out until child support is collected from the child support debt." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentences be added to Article 1 of Article 17 of the Common Family Protection and Avoiding Violence Against Women. "If the protected person is more than one, the additional person will also be paid 20% of that amount. However, the amount that will be paid in no way exceeds one-and-a-half times the amount of fixed daily payment. If there is a shelter for those who are protected, the amount specified in this joke is applied by reducing by 50 percent. The amendment of Article 17 of the 181 bill to the 2nd joke as follows: "These payments are covered by grants for temporary grants in the Ministry budget. The payments are collected from the person who may have been violent or may have been violent, according to the Law provisions of Amme Acquisitions No. 6183, dated 21/7/1953 upon the requirement of the Ministry's application. We propose. Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0105par0854	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0102par0855	Your Majesty? - We don't agree. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0106par0858	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 17th Amendment to the Protection of Family Number 181 and Avoiding Violence Against Women. I salute you all. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I give my regards and greetings to all women who celebrate the World Laboring Women's Day. One of the first inequalities in history, the inequality of men and women, continues with all its violence, especially in our country. Problems with violence against women can only be solved by law, and only by consideration of women's opinions. In this context, I would like to acknowledge that the bill is generally positive, but I regret to inform you that women's organisations' opinions have not been taken very seriously. The bill is referred to as the Protection of the Family and the Avoidance of Violence Against Women. At first glance, it brings a lot of problems when you think about that name that sounds good. First of all, what do we mean by family? The social unit of only those married to official state weddings? If so, wouldn't that indicate discrimination? So where are you going to put the Imam married wives, the lovers who live together without a formal marriage, or the gay ones who live together? Isn't it possible that one of the couples who has this kind of union can experience violence? It is discrimination to exclude these people from the scope of the law, such as violence, and it is against the 10th article of the Constitution that regulates the principle of equality. Therefore, the extent of the law must be expanded, the Istanbul Convention and the CEDAW Protocol must be made into a law. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the end of violence against women, the change of male-dominated mentality, the coming of a mindset that sees women as human. Laws that are to be passed must be sanctioned and to inspire trust in our victim citizens. A power reveals how to think, how to act, with its political stance, before making law. It is impossible to imagine that violence against women with a law will end as it is not possible to expect a constitution in a country where arrests, arrests and rights violations are every day. You need to know that practical practices are as important as legal regulations. Article 17 of the bill organises temporary financial aid for women who are under 16 years of age who have been subjected to violence. There are positive changes in the final process, but there are children's brides in our country. Women who are forced to get married at the age of 14 or 15, will be excluded from the scope of the law. Women of the age of Hakeza will be kept outside the scope of the law in the same way that violence occurs. The same clause predicts that the planned payments will be covered from the Ministry budget by the grant for temporary financial benefits. The lack of this material that I find extremely positive for women who have to choose their husband's beating over starvation is the collection of violent men. A man who's under financial obligation, you can appreciate that he's going to attack women more than the state, and he's going to take it out on her. A law that is expected to prevent violence against women should not include provisions that will further increase violence against women. Mr. President, there is much to be done to prevent violence against the woman we consider one of our country's most important problems. True equality of men and women will be possible with the implementation of the woman's employment norms of universal equality. In a world where women are neither free nor equal, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0107par0868	Thank you, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0108par0869	Mr. President, I'd like a sufficient number of decisions, sir, in order to get more MPs to monitor the meeting.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0107par0870	Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0108par0871	Sir, we can do it with an electronic vote.
tbmm-2012-03-08sit01spe0107par0872	Wait a second... let's vote, when they say they don't exist, we vote electronically. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who don't... those who don't... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break.
