tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 91st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The first unscheduled statement is from Mr. Yusuf Başer, a member of the Yozgat MP who asked for the appointment of 5 April Day of Lawyers. Here you go, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on April 5, Attorney's Day. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. On April 5, 1878, Turkey's oldest and largest bar in the world, the Istanbul Bar's first general board meeting, inspired by the April 5, 1878, which was first celebrated in 1987, meant a special meaning for our colleagues, thus expressing the importance of the profession, the problems of the profession, the country's problems and solutions. Lawyers, who are the founding factor of the judiciary, represent independent defence. The lawyer is the honorable representatives of the right-seeking profession, which provides legal assistance in the use and protection of the right-seeking freedom, which includes the individual's knowledge and time, which is specific to the person or persons who seek the rights of the individual. A fair trial requires the presence of independent and impartial judges and prosecutors as well as independent lawyers. In this sense, lawyers, representatives of the defense, are no less important to the judiciary than other actors. It is not possible that a trial without defence and without defence is a fair trial, as cannot be mentioned without an independent and impartial judiciary. We can all be exposed to a crime at any time or on the side of a legal dispute. In situations like this, we need lawyers. It is vital to make it independent and autonomous, to make it effective and functional in the process of trial. In the past, lawyers who have dealt with the cumbersome and slow-working structure of bureaucracy have also found it difficult to explain the situation to their client and have to take on all kinds of setbacks. Lawyers have been held responsible for cases that have been lost over the years, as well as for cases that have been lost due to difficulties in reaching evidence, and have been tried to become an untrustworthy profession in public opinion. Mr. President, before the AK PARTI, the courts served in the isolated workplaces of government buildings, while along with the EC PARTI, justice was allowed to take place in its own physical places; the EC PARTI carried the judiciary from workplaces to palaces of justice in Turkey. With the developing and spreading national judicial system, access to justice has been achieved, electronic signature application has been implemented. With the further development of the system and with the draft law on accelerating judicial services on our agenda of parliament, the problem of the most complaining trial will end for years; judgment will become swift, and fair decision-making. The prosecutors of the republic and the first-degree criminal court of the judiciary, which led to the limitation of the right to defend during the investigation, were forced to pay VAT without paying the fee in the first degree. With the change made, the VAT payment was brought in after the lawyers were paid. Together with the Justice Ministry and its relevant units, the Turkey Bar Association and the joint participation of the Bar Association and the Bar Association have formed a law-based working group, which has been resolved by the Ministry of Justice, as well as the problems and demands of lawyers and barmen. The public vote held on September 12, 2010, provided representations of lawyers at the Constitutional Court, which lawyers and attorneys have demanded for many years, and at the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors, the two issues have been an important achievement in the name of the lawyer. That's why being a lawyer is a stepchild of the judiciary. As lawmakers, our request and desire from the Bar Association and from lawyers and the Bar Association is to bring to our Parliament the bill of law, where lawyers are equal and fair participation in the Bars and Bar Association, which prioritizes the needs of the age, the issues of independent defence and the profession of law. I believe, and I hope, when the bill comes, our House will issue a bill of law. He says that he is a lawyer for justice, justice for everyone. He says, this is why I respectfully salute our lawyers, our holy nation, and your grand delegation, who are the attorneys of the Afyonkarahisar Bar last week who have been killed in his duty, Huseyin Bürhan Faran, and all of our colleagues who have gone on to eternity.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0003par0027	Thank you, Mr. Basher. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today, April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I took this opportunity to make a promise. I salute your high council and all our people. Dear lawmakers, the state uses its sovereignty powers through legislation, executive and judicial authorities. The charge against the judge is defense and judgment. So the justice within the state of law, which constitutes the basis of the state, is only passed by the fact that the lawyer, the prosecutor and the judge, are free and free of all influence and oppression. Today, however, we see that in our country, unfortunately, the independent judiciary has suffered a severe blow, and judges, prosecutors, lawyers, are trying to do their duty under heavy pressure and influence. The President of the Constitutional Court has made a statement saying, "We will not allow politics to surround the judiciary as we opposed politics yesterday. " Despite the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights rulings, special courts, which are incompatible with the democratic state of law, prevent MPs representing national will, from doing their duty. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors intervenes in the process of trial and investigation and relieves prosecutors and judges overnight and investigates them. Turkey's Grand National Assembly and the government are involved in the trial of coup generals on September 12th, but the coup constitution of September 12th is wrapped up in Article 130 (PEC) and Article 83 (83) of the Constitution of the coup that has captured eight MPs, including the 10 per cent threshold of the Constitution of the coup. Those who make laws for MIT President Hakan Fidan in three days embrace these famous items of the coup and continue to eat the forbidden fruit of the September 12 coup, which they have considered illegitimate against opponents for ten years. Dear lawmakers, the foundation of the state is justice, and the basis of justice is independent defence. Even the rulers known in history, who have led societies to disaster, have grasped the importance and awareness of the practice of law. Yesterday, at the Ankara Courthouse, again, our brave lawyers defended the coup d'état generals. Lawyers are advocates of freedom and independence that exist during the most difficult times for people. However, constitutional and legal regulations in implementing the practice of law enforcement are, unfortunately, incomplete. The lack of defence in the section of the Constitution, the continued increase in the quantity and quality of law schools, and the absence of the constitutional legal examination system are fundamental problems. ▪ Justice is not justice at the time. The principle continues to seek justice with underprivileged judges, prosecutors, and assistant staff under physical conditions. Unfortunately, it violates the principle of fair trial when international contracts that our country sided with are reflected in internal law. The view from the advanced democracy of the ten-year AKP is this: in 2011, the world's democracy in the index of democracy can't even enter perfect democracy, our country and the world's freedoms ranked 112 percent in 194 countries. Turkey is number 116 in the study of freedom of the press. Turkey pays 40 per cent of the compensations paid to the European Court of Human Rights, number one. Eight arrested MPs, 100 arrested journalists, students serving 18 months in prison, MPs being attacked on the bench, lawmakers being kicked in the commission and gas bombs, smoke bombs, and here in Turkey, the balance of the AKP government's advanced democracy. And yesterday, look, coup generals are on trial without arrest, MPs suspected of attempted coup have been in prison for four years. I suppose that's the advanced democracy of the AKP. With these thoughts and feelings, I celebrate the Day of Lawyers of our justice-fighter lawyers, and salute your grand delegation with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Havut. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izlu, who wants to talk about the answers to the written question motions. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0006par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the very beginning of my words, I congratulate you on Lawyer's Day and the valuable lawyers who serve in this field. I've taken an off-the-book promise of answers given or not given to written question motions. I hereby pay my respects to all of you. Dear lawmakers, the answers to the written question motions, which are bound to be answered in Article 99, which we use as one of the most important control tools of an MP, and how it will be in Article 96 of our Interior Charter, which is bound to be answered in Article 99, are, unfortunately, fully watered down during the AKP Power period. I'll give you some examples in a moment. But before that, for example, about 45 per cent of the questions proposed to members of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers, at the request of an answer, were answered on time, about 28 per cent were not answered, 27 per cent were answered late, and 27 per cent were added to the website. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament Speaker and bureaucrats who have listened to our proposal and later agreed to access delayed answers to lawmakers' websites. Now, I would especially like to present some examples of these, especially as a member of parliament who has witnessed a lot of questions where the ministers have recently given irrelevant answers from lawmakers, delayed responses, answered in unrealistic statements, and, unfortunately, they have failed to answer. Dear lawmakers, for example, received an answer on December 30, 2010 on January 16, 2012, a full year after we submitted a motion on irregular payments to the board of directors assigned to the OSCE. The motion we submitted to the Prime Minister's request for an answer was answered by the Minister of Finance exactly a year later, with no meaning at all. Regarding unrelated answers: The Grand Middle East Project, who was given the BOP Co-Chair, and who is Mr. Prime Minister's role? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I really condemn these understandings that violate the will of the nation. Unreal answers: We have submitted a motion to Mr. Beşir Atalay Bey, the Minister of Interior for the move of Kütahya MP Education Battalion with others, and the response is that there is no work being carried out to a new barracks in the short term of this private training command. It has been said, but after six months, the battalion has moved to Kastamonu. A minister on one side says that there is no such thing. The second Minister İdris Naim Şahin says that on September 24, 2011, he moved to Kastamon (Kastamonu) and will be evaluated by TOKI. Regarding the unrealistic answer: Unfortunately, the Minister of National Education has made a completely unrelated and opposite response to the proposal that the 60 limits of primary education will be reduced to 30, to prevent the closing of schools. Again, Mr. Minister of National Education has given us a different answer and a different answer on television, as shown by the press, to a question about people who are paying teachers without teaching formation. The PKK has announced in the press that it is propaganda for students, but it has hidden it to us. In other words, I give you an example of the questions taken by members of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers on foreign travel, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ's answer. Congressmans, the memo is two lines, no signatures, I condemn. Therefore, because of this understanding, which defies the will of the nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...inviting you to the mission, I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Light. Some of our friends are in the system, and I'm going to promise you where they are, for a minute, by the order of entry. Mr. Turkmenoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0008par0067	Mr. President, thank you. I've made a promise on April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I'm celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5 of all our lawyer friends. On this occasion, I would like to once again emphasize how sacred the defense profession is. Defense, our profession as lawyers is one of the essential elements of defense, defense, and judicial error. We know about our lawyers' problems, and we're cooperating with the bar on the solutions. In particular, as professional organisations, I feel that the public has taken an important role in guiding the community to improve its sensitivity to basic rights and freedoms. In this regard, our attorneys must take on a particularly large mission. We all feel that our friends here should be free of their own political opinions and opinions, only in the process of judgment, to advance the sanctity of neutrality and defence. On this occasion again, I celebrate Lawyer's Day. I wish our lawyers a better tomorrow and a better Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. Turkmenoglu. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. We are subject to no one, no client, no judge, no power. We don't claim that there are people below us. We don't know any hierarchists, tops. It's no different than the most senior or the one who's made a name. Lawyers didn't use prisoners, but they didn't have masters. I'm celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5 of all lawyers described as masters. When I'm doing my duty of defense all over Turkey, I ask God's mercy to the lawyers who sacrificed their lives if necessary. On this occasion, I humbly offer my love and respect to our fellow lawyers, colleagues, and lawyers, who hold the honor, honor and dignity of the profession to the very highest degree, even in the face of self-inflicted attacks, and to the defense's unrelenting advocates in the fight of the rule of law. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0011par0078	Thank you. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0012par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is April 5th, Lawyer's Day. Political interference towards the right to defend has reached the insufferable limits of a democratic state. I'd like to express that in our country, where nearly 100 lawyers are under arrest, the right to defend should be released immediately, and I'm celebrating the day of every lawyer's day, including the lawyers in prison today. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0013par0084	Thank you, Mr. Buldan. Mr. Akova...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0014par0087	Mr. President, thank you. I congratulate my esteemed colleagues on the Day of Lawyers on April 5th, wishing that they would work in a legal order, with the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. We lawyers, seeking the essence of rights and regulations that are uncompromising with the concepts of judicial independence, the rule of law, and the rule of law. We are opposed to the laws of the legal state that will lead to losses in the professional rights of lawyers who have an important role in implementing the function of the judiciary. The opinions and proposals of lawyers, who are an important part of the justice mechanism in law-making processes, should also be considered. Trial costs advances eliminate right-seeking freedom. The green passport must be given to the lawyers. We know that public defenders have a problem with pension rights, basic rights of identity, the right to an independent duty. These practices, which will destroy the reputation and honor of the profession, must be corrected as soon as possible. I'm celebrating my colleagues' Lawyer's Day again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0015par0091	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0016par0093	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the National Movement Party Group, we are celebrating Lawyer's Day. Happy are all our lawyers' days, whatever their hearts are in, whatever their problems are, let them be the means to solve them today. If Turkey is a state of law and the rule of law is the most important guarantee of our will to live together, the requirement is the right to defend it. A state without a right to defend is not called a state of law, it is not a system of rule of law. For him, lawyers are a very important profession, which is loaded with a very important element of the system, tasked with it. I find their mission very valuable, I celebrate, I bless. I give them my regards as the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0018par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5th. I hereby present a longing for Turkey, where there is a neutral, independent and fair judicial system, where the rule of law is recognized. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0019par0102	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0020par0105	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to address you on behalf of the sugar beets producers. Sugar beets producers are in a tough spot right now. These are utilities, we use expensive fertilizers, we use expensive drugs, we use expensive electricity, we use expensive water, and we don't give up production, but these BUG-KUR bonuses have been cut by 5% in the past, and they're cut by 5% in the beet today. What is this 5% of? Five percent down to fire; eight, nine percent down to ten percent down to the beet, but we don't understand this BUG-KUR cutoff. It's called... If we don't have these beet producers, we can't celebrate Lawyer's Day here or Teacher's Day or Veterinarian Day or Doctor's Day. In order for us to maintain production, I'd like you to listen to the sound of the beet maker, all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0019par0107	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0021par0110	Thank you, Mayor. In recent weeks, the losses of business accidents in Adana Esenyurt, Antalya, Eskişehir have been repeated, while five other workers working at Erzurum Karasu-2 Dam have been lost due to lack of job security. I ask God's mercy and patience for the dead workers. The worker's dead again. The government is unable to present the situation to ensure occupational health and safety. I'd like to remind the government of that responsibility.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0022par0113	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0023par0116	Mr. President, thank you. In the Mahalli and national press releases, the political elite, wife, friend, cousin, party advocate in particular does the public construction of Adana. Adana's constant hospital corruption, public corruption is on the agenda. We expect influential political elites to withdraw from public administration, and we want to get rid of an understanding of corruption and injustice as Adana. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0024par0119	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Mahir Ünal...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0025par0122	Mr. President, we, the AK PARTY Group, are celebrating the day of our lawyers, the honorable representatives of the right-seeking, defence profession, who have served as legal aid in the use and protection of our rights-seeking freedom.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0026par0126	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'm celebrating the day of all lawyers and lawyers today because of Lawyer's Day. I hope the lawyers who've been in there for a long time who can't get their freedom are free as soon as possible. I offer our condolences and condolences to the families of those five brothers who lost their lives in Erzurum. A third issue is these representational ceremonies. On April 1st, Ercish was given a representational ceremony, and with a real bullet, a city worker was shot because he was Armenian. When will our government give up this kind of representational celebration that really reeks of hatred and hatred? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0027par0132	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0028par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Republican People's Party Group, I congratulate all of our lawyers on Lawyer's Day, and wish them the best in their work. On this occasion, I'm also expressing a desire for democracy where lawyers are not punished because the forces have settled with all the elements of the separation, the rights are guaranteed, the right to defend them, the right to defend them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0029par0139	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. ▪ The President has Presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly New districts established in Istanbul ahead of the 2009 local elections have been shut down, our villages have been turned into neighborhoods, a village about 5km from the town centre has remained a village, but municipalities in towns 70 to 80km away have been turned into a village in the district. For years, our common cultural and values-related settlements have experienced the unrest of connecting to another district and are extremely unhappy. Nearby, there is a district about 10km away, but it is connected to a district about 40km away, which has to go 60km for the courts and 50km away for the military branch. In particular, in Istanbul, Çatkca, Silivri, Albanian village, Başakşehir and Büçükçekmece, the problem has reached the limit. For these reasons, I would like to ask that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to investigate the problems of our victims and to address the victims of our citizens. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 2) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ardahan]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Antalya]] 13) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 14) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Çanakkale]] 23) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] 25) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] 26) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Army]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Erzincan]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 36) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business accidents in our country and the loss of lives in these accidents continue to exist every day. Occupational organisations state that in business accidents, we are the first in Europe, the third in the world. In the mining industry, the situation is becoming a little more dire, and it is said that we are the first in the world as well as the miner who lost his life in business accidents. It is known that every six minutes a work accident has taken place, and every six hours a worker has lost his life. Studies show that 50% of business accidents can be avoided easily, while 48% can be prevented by systematic work. In our country, where unemployment monitors at a high rate, it leads our citizens to ignore first the demands of a revenue-producing job, the demands of workers' health and safety. Employers do not prioritize these measures, as labour health and safety measures avoid the cost that arises because it requires certain investments. In this case, the primary and most important responsibility falls to the public authority. It seems that our institutions, which are responsible for providing their citizens with "safe and healthy working conditions," have not fulfilled their responsibilities in line with purpose. "One of the most important results that work has come out is that culture related to business health and safety has been left to development in its own way rather than in its own way, rather than in its own way, in the summary of Research and Review Report No. 08.06.2011 and 2011/3, which are prepared by the presidential State Control Board for mining accidents. He demonstrated the public's insensitivity in the matter by taking part in his assessment. Another stunning assessment of the public control system is that "the public control system creates a serious weakness from the event due to savings problems in areas such as duty and authorization definitions, as well as the problems in the methods and processes followed in the applications of the authorities. When accidents are processed, there is no effective control system and/or problems that are fed/sourceed by lack of control." The emphasis that all concerned individuals and organisations, particularly unions, have made on the weakness of public audits, has been made clear and clear by the State Control Board. Business accidents in our country are now called "Work Murders," due to lack of supervision in the field of labour health and safety, lack of sanctions, lack of responsibility and carelessness. Among the reasons for the intense occurrence of fatal business accidents are also known to be as effective as the lack of control of the field, subcontractorship, unsecured employment, ununsubstantiation, and the spread of unregistered work. It is accepted by almost everyone today that current legislation is inadequate in preventing business accidents. As a matter of fact, the EU Progress Report in 2011 included this situation, and progress in this area has been found insufficient. The report criticised the Framework Command on occupational health and safety as yet to be passed to national legislation, and the legislation on the business in which fatal business accidents have not been implemented. The legal arrangement for this area, which has been on the agenda for a long time, is constantly being diverted by political power. For these reasons, the Constitution's 98th and TBM Interior Charter 104th and 105th, in order to identify problems and shortcomings in the field of labour health and safety, to develop suggestions for the solution. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[Ankara]] 2) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 3) Ahmet Haluk Koç [[Samsun]] [[Army]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] 9) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[Adana]] [[Tunceli]] 16) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Mughle]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] 21) Osman Oktay Sokshi [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly After the August 17, 1999 earthquake, additional income and property tax, additional property tax, additional motor vehicle tax, special communication tax and special processing tax were brought in connection with the earthquake. The law was lifted at the end of 2003, and then the earthquake tax and the special communication tax were adopted into the Expenses Tax Act and became permanent. Our Constitution is 98 to determine and address problems related to where and how the amount of about $40 billion collected under the Name of Special Excise Tax is used. Article 104 and 105 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter. By establishing a Research Commission according to the requirements of the matter, we respectfully submit the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. After the August 17, 1999 earthquake, additional income and property tax, additional property tax, additional motor vehicle tax, special communication tax and special transaction tax were issued regarding the earthquake. The law was lifted at the end of 2003, and then the earthquake tax and the special communication tax were adopted into the Expenses Tax Act and became permanent. An earthquake tax is received in many areas from mobile phones to banking operations, tax returns, plane tickets, fortune games, customs and passport transactions. Over the course of time, the money collected was around 22.3 billion, with a special telecommunication tax from phone subscribers, which became permanent and was the most important source of income, over 65 million. As of 2011, it is estimated that the money collected as an earthquake tax is around $40 billion. On August 17, 1999, there is no concrete information on who controls and how to use the income from the earthquake tax, which was temporarily issued, but later made by the government, which made most of it permanent. On August 17, 1999, ten years after the earthquake, it was discovered that on August 17, 2009, the Chamber of Free Accountant Financial Advisors was collected by the Finance Ministry, State Planning Organization (DPT), Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen's Association (TUSIAD) and World Bank data, but it was not explained how the revenue was spent, and was collected by the Marmara Earthquake in 10 years. If earthquake taxes had been used properly, the structures in our country's earthquake zone could have been strengthened and our people could have lived in dwellings that would not have been destroyed before the earthquake. We see clearly from the Van earthquake, where the money collected from earthquake taxes is not being used in accordance with its purpose. It's more than enough to stock up $40 billion in tents, build strong buildings, make our people aware of the earthquake. As a result, the transparency of what 40 billion dollars is used for and what it is used for needs to be explained to the Turkish people immediately. In order to inform our citizens who have been victims of the earthquake and our people who have been paying special consumption tax for 12 years, if there is any neglect or weakness of duty to the relevant institutions, those responsible must be determined immediately. [[Slap]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] 4) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] 9) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Sakarya]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 15) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 16) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Eskişehir]] Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors at 05.04.2012 Thursday (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 24 February 2012, it was suggested that the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish Parliament on February 24, 2012, would be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, in order to determine and determine the material moral challenges of the imprisoned and imprisoned families referred to far-off prisons (629 rows), and to be held in the same date of the meetings in a joint joint union Thursday (March 5,04.2012). In favour of the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal, Mr. Erol Dora Mardin MP. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0030par0347	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Parliament's investigation to determine the measures to be taken in order to remove the problems of the prisoners and their families, due to the fact that the prisoners and prisoners are being held in prisons far away from their families. I salute you all. Mr. President, the number of prisoners and prisoners in Turkey's prisons has increased every day, while within eight years, the number of prisoners in prisons has doubled. According to Justice Department data, the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons is 130,000, and human rights organisations and many others are beginning to worry. According to Justice Department data, about 6,000 of these prisoners were registered as political prisoners. The problem of capacity in prisons is a problem of its own. As shown in the press, in many prisons prisoners have to lay the floor beds even in areas used as a mess hall. In many prisons, prisoners sleep on shifts. Although the two of our MPs are still under arrest, the Mardin Closed Prison is capable of 320 people, the number of prisoners has been based on 900. In prisons where arbitrary practices have also increased, practices such as cell punishments, disciplinary investigations, bans on sightings and activities have become a torture facility that is already insufferable. There are also diseases caused by isolation in prisons. In studies on prisoners, the loss of auditory and visual hallucinations, viral infections, ear regression, deafness in the neural type, visual and hearing disorders, growth of tumor growth, amenore syndromes, sleep disorders, anxiety disorders, mental breakdowns and anxiety, and anxiety, and hunger for stimulation, anxiety, loss of weight loss of orientation, regression of the ability to think, early menopause, early mood swings, aggressive behavior, anxiety, anxiety, sensitivity, and alert hunger. Hundreds of prisoners are currently suffering from deadly diseases. Taylan Chintai with bladder cancer and Erol Zavar, Halil Sun with bone cancer, Mehmet Aras with larynx cancer, Hatice Polet with Wernicke Korsakoff, and Fatma Tokmak with heart disease, are only a few of them. According to the 2009 Prisons Violation Report, published by the Human Rights Association, 24 people died in 2009, while 49 people were on the verge of death due to severe illness and should be released. One of the most common areas of the prison problem is Adana. There are about 450 prisoners and prisoners in Adana Kürkçüler Type F Prison with maximum 368 capacity. A total of 13 people had to sleep in a prison where the guards forced them to recite the Instruction March, to be comfortable, to be prepared, and the children were beaten at the first entrance, where they were beaten with a hose by soldiers and guards. We all know what happened to the children in Posanti Prison, the problems of women's prisoners in Elbia. Prisoners and relatives also face many difficulties in prison visits. They have to travel hundreds of miles to visit prisoners. A family living in Muş is forced to go to Tekirdağ, for example, to see or visit their son or daughter in prison. It shouldn't be hard to know how painful it is when families have a hard time making ends meet. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Lawyer's Day. As a lawyer, I congratulate all my colleagues on World Lawyer's Day and wish them the best in their careers. The profession of a lawyer is a painful profession. Unfortunately, the situation in our country of lawyers seeking the rights and the law of the court as the defense is pathetic. Lawyers who defend political cases are treated as potential criminals because of the nature of the case. Decisions that have been made almost routine without any concrete examinations by special authorities courts have been made by limits on the grounds that lawyers can deliver their file information to terrorist organisations. It is impossible for a lawyer to offer legal aid to his client in the process of investigation due to restrictions, but information and documents hidden from the person investigating him are somehow being served to newspapers, and people are accused of violating the confidentiality of the investigation in public through the press. Prosecutors are reluctant to open an investigation into personnel violating the privacy of the investigation. The Law on Lawyership of the United Nations, the Rules of Attorneyship of the European Union, the Council of Europe's Court of Law on Freedoms of Attorneyship No. 9 and other international documents violate the freedom of the lawyer, is being taken into custody and even arrested. 37 attorneys from various bars have been arrested as attorneys Muharrem Erbey and Abdullah Ocalan, the president of the Diyarbakır Human Rights Association. At the same time, it is not acceptable for the right to defend and the practice of law enforcement to be so severely abused, even in the circumstances of September 12th coup. Special authority courts and private double law must be eliminated. Democratic states are states that honor security practices, not freedoms, but guarantees of the profession of law enforcement must be implemented immediately, and special authorities must be removed from the court's right to defend, the attorney's rights, and months of imprisonment. The security of the investigation warrants brought in for the president of the MIT has to be made especially for lawyers and as a guarantee of independence, the defence organisation should not be able to open an investigation into any lawyer without permission, and the legal regulation on whether or not any lawyer can be arrested in criminal cases except if he is guilty. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers should not be forgotten that the practice of law in the struggle for democracy and freedom is of great importance, but the profession of law and defence's problems are not at all important. No matter how well-organized the rights of law and paper are, as we look at it today, extreme difficulties and negativity in the conduct of law enforcement affect the quality of direct legal action, as a result, because lawyers are the direct co-founder of judicial action. You need to see the truth: An example of the quality of judicial action cannot be shown that the world has not developed its defensive profession and its right to defend it. Mr. President, I regret to inform you that the practice of law enforcement is losing blood. To maintain the reputation and importance of the profession, necessary steps must be taken. The fact that the defense is strong means it's a quality and independent judgment. On this occasion, I salute you all again with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0031par0370	Thank you, Mr. Dora. The second speaker on the Peace and Democracy Group proposal is Mr. Mehmet Shandir, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0032par0373	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, that's the irony of the Civil Code; it's not our definition of being against it. The issues brought up, in fact, should be brought up in its own reality, without its personality, without its intention, without its meaning. Therefore, today, the problems of the families of prisoners and prisoners brought to the agenda by the Peace and Democracy Party are a true issue, an important issue, the subject of the Assembly, the subject of all of us, and it is a responsibility to be discussed, to be discussed, primarily political power. Dear friends, I don't know the exact number, but I believe we're over 120,000 prisoners and prisoners today. There's a reality with families, children, parents, relatives, millions of them, and they've already been deprived of their freedom, and I know you'll all know that their conditions are not so good. Our people from the same circumstances are very much among us, many of us have lived on those terms. Therefore, we must discuss the situation of the prisoners and the prisoners separately. We also have the obligation to discuss the problems of their families that they can't give up and to build their solution together. Dear friends, it's April 5th, Lawyer's Day. Lawyer means defense. Defense means judgment. Without defense, there will be no judgment. Judicial means rule of law and rule of law. The rule of law is the will of this society to live together, the most important value that ensures that it lives together is a value we cannot give up. So the issue of this expert opinion, which has been constrained or not met accordingly, for example, is a problem in our country. There are things that both the state and the judiciary have to do to resolve this problem. Another thing is that the right to defend is blocked due to physical conditions. We have to get through this. Dear friends, I present as the National Movement Party: Prisoners and prisoners are crimes, punishments, whatever, but as a result, they are people entrusted to this community and this state. We shouldn't hold them against the state and society in the agony of their circumstances. They are people who have been entrusted to this state as prisoners and prisoners. They'll pay the fines, they'll pay the price, but we have to embarrass them. We need to get them out of there, not to spite the government and the community, but to embarrass them for the damage they've done to society. We need to establish those conditions. These prisoners and prisoners should be regarded as guests entrusted to this community and to the state, who need to be regained; that's the way we look at it. It's impossible to say that we've had enough of that understanding. Dear lawmakers, we can't possibly accept the incidents in Posant. No matter who the personalities of those prisoners or prisoners were, whatever their crimes, they were people entrusted to the state. If we can't protect them, if they're being subjected to certain treatments that I've had in here, which I'm ashamed of, in the name of our government and in the name of the community. If we can't keep the prisoners moving from place to place, if we can't save their lives in that piece of iron truck, then we're facing a result like burning to death, then the Republic's Turkey and the Turkish Grand National Assembly should be ashamed of it. For this reason, I say, this motion for research is the right suggestion of research, even though we have made a promise against it; it would be a very honorable duty for me to consider the public responsibility to be taken into consideration, to have the Grand National Assembly of Turkey conduct a thorough examination of this issue, to have the precision necessary precision. Dear friends, there are two things: the individuality of punishment, and one is the purity of innocence. Now, is it possible to say that we don't punish the families of prisoners and prisoners? The distance between the prison where his family lives or the prison where he is imprisoned or in prison is so long that for such simple reasons, we move prisoners from one place to another, we punish his family more than the prisoner, we punish his child, he can't see his father, we punish his old mother, he can't see. We're building a law, our law tortures people. What if we make this easy? Once again, prisoners and prisoners are in our hands, and we need to prevent the state and the nation from being spited by their circumstances. We have to embarrass them for their crimes, for the damage they've done to society, so we can bring them into society. Not only do we punish them, we punish their families, children, and elderly parents. That is not true, nor is it wise, nor is it just. We must never forget that a state that does not rule with justice will become a state of persecution, as well as the fact that sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, the foundation of the property is justice. If, as a state, we can't improve the sense of justice with the laws we've established as Congress, then this state doesn't need enemies, we're putting dynamite on the foundation of property. For that reason, dear friends, this motion for research is the correct motion for research; it would be the right thing to do in Turkey's Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems of prisoners and their families, their relatives, and to find the reasons and to build a commission to improve their measures. At this point -- and I said yesterday for some reason -- the ruling party says every time: we don't have a room, he'll run a commission. We don't have time, full of agendas, we can't study the reports. I think it's really, really, the fact that, without delaying, procrastinating, in terms of our social and future, in terms of our will to live together, in terms of these problems, in terms of our will to solve human problems, without accounting for any cost, without linking those who speak the truth, without hiding behind any prejudicial verdicts, I think that the establishment of this commission is the common responsibility for the direct investigation and measures of the families of the prisoners and their relatives. Even if I had taken a word against it, sir, I would say that I would vote in favor of this motion, with respect to your delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0033par0387	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0034par0391	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with respect and love. I have made a promise on the matter of prisons. Dear friends, in prisons, with human rights, humanity is on the floor. In my speech from this bench earlier, the prisons are the mirrors of the country where they are. I've been to a lot of prisons, talked to a lot of inmates. Now, I'll tell you what we look like in that mirror. Let's not be offended, let's not be offended, let's look at our view of the prisons together. The Penal Code responds to all human rights. Prison administrations, which are not satisfied with this, also apply their arbitrary punishments in a double way. I leave the ban on thousands of days of letters, phone calls and visits to your conscience. Thousands of days, people are being punished for arbitrary disciplinary measures, without letters, without visitors. To Turks, poetry, the only joy of the prisoners, the only hope of the letter, to ban the visitor, what mind, and what conscience is that? In this respect, especially F-type prisons have become a torture house beyond the concept of dungeons. Unsanitary diet is another serious problem in prisons. Those fat, unhygienic foods make healthy people sick, and the same food is provided for the babies and children who stay with their mothers. The sight I see is terrible, my friends. When I visit the parents with babies, mothers eat all the fancy, spicy, sour foods that come out of prison, they're condemned to eat their children, too, my friends. We all have kids, so maybe one day we'll all end up here. Dear friends, speaking of health, I can't go past the bleeding wounds of prisons without referring to the sick prisoners. According to the Ministry of Justice, there are more than 400 prisoners. Half of them are seriously ill and dozens are terminally ill. One of these deadly patients is Serap Simsek. I visited him recently, visited him. Please, all of you listen carefully, friends, I want to tell you about a human shame that we have caused: Serap Lightning is a thirty-year-old prisoner. His file's still in the Supreme Court. He's mentally ill, paralyzed and bedridden. He's had surgery, dear friends, and his guts are waiting outside in a bag. I went to the prison, and visited him, and saw Serap. One hand of the mirage lies tied to the cot with a sheet. Serap, I'm an MP, I'm from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I've come to visit you. Can I get you anything? I want to solve it, tell me what's wrong with you. All he said to me was, "Friends, I want a bird, I want a yellow bird, I want a yellow lovebirds." And I couldn't get rid of it for days. When I arrived, I sent two yellow lovebirds from here; unfortunately, one of them was delivered, and one of them was not delivered because it was forbidden, my friends. Dear friends, I'd like to read you a letter from a prisoner. Abdullah Akçay is a child convicted of theft. He's got cancer in prison. I'm going to read you a passage from his letter. Abdullah Akçay writes: After I was identified, I was hardly admitted to Okmeydanlı Education Research Hospital. The hospital room is 4 square meters and extremely stuffy. I'm being treated in my basement room with a tiny window and a window covered with wires. I'm a man with a terminal illness, but I'm being treated in a room like this. Whereas people like me, people like me, are being treated in the sixth floor of the hospital in their comfortable, cool rooms. I haven't seen friends, relatives, and loved ones in two and a half years. They want to come to the hospital, they're coming, the soldier won't let them see me. My treatment isn't well done. Because I'm a prisoner, because of the soldiers, the nurses are afraid of me as if they saw a mouse. I live like a mouse, and I'm not hurting anyone. They care about me as much as a pet rat. Dear friends, I've seen this letter from Abdullah Akçay a number of times in many places. Unfortunately, the irregularities in these prisons are irrational. This does not apply only to Abdullah Akçay. Look, Mehmet Haberal, one of the respected scientists raised by Turkey, is under the same conditions. Mehmet Haberal is bending over because of his waist. He wants physical therapy, but Mehmet Haberal is being treated in a hospital without physical therapy, friends. Again, Mr. Professor Dr. Fatih Hilmioglu, who has worked so hard for Malatya, is in hospital today as the beginning of cancer, although he has been reported several times. Dear friends, the number of patients who died in Turkey has been 41 in 2011, even though they could not be treated like Serap. Some were bureaucratic obstacles, some were spiteful. They died in longing for their families, their loved ones, their birthplace, a handful of skies, a sea shore. More than anyone, we are the MPs responsible for these deaths, these longings, these shames, this Parliament is where we stand. Dear friends, the abuse and torture of prisons are the kind that embarrass mankind. I share with you the sights I live in, the sights I see, my friends. When we first entered the prison, it became a tradition to welcome everyone without separating them. There's a search at the first entrance. People strip naked, men's rectums, women's genitals. This is the end of mankind. Add warm water, which does not burn in the winter, to heat that does not flow. Do you even know that non-burning furnaces in winter, dear friends, burn in F-type prisons in the summer? A prisoner who complains about it, and the one who remains in the cell, the prosecutor asks him if he has a witness. Dear friends, recently a group of Republican People's Party MP friends and I visited Posanti Prison on a letter following a tip. First, the Ministry denied, said there was no such thing, and then it was discovered that something like this had happened with the initiative of Republican People's Party MPs, and then the warden and the deputy warden there were dismissed from the prison manager, the promoted deputy warden. Now, friends, there are prisoners between twelve and seventeen years old, children staying there. Perhaps one day the practice will be done to our children. Look, we all have children.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0035par0404	It's done to us, too!
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0034par0405	It's done to us, too. Now, my friends, on this report, the Posant Prison has been evacuated. First the Department of Justice played the blind and the deaf, did nothing about these people for nine months, then evacuated Posant Prison. We said: "If you evacuate this Posant Prison and transfer it to Sincan, it is a second punishment for those children." Why? For all the families that remain there are the poor, the poor, the friends; the people who remain in Ceyhan, Adana, Mersin. You took the children away from their families, you committed another major crime. Now, I go to prisons a lot, guys. I've asked permission four times from the Justice Department to visit this Sincan Prison, but unfortunately, they won't let me, my friends. Now, I guess I've become a defunct MP about prisons. I don't understand why they won't let me. I visit all prisoners, from all sides, from every thought, forensic criminal, political criminal, friends. I think there should be an answer to that. Again, from Osmaniye Prison, friends, people text, write letters. They've written to the band lately, and they've written to me. In Osmaniye Prison, friends, there's a hunger strike, people are about to die. I'm speaking to you from here, their demands are not much: they don't want to shave daily beards, they don't want everyone to get naked, they don't want to be counted, they don't want to be beaten, and they don't want to be beaten on the count, friends. I'd like to bring this to your attention and draw your attention to Osmaniye Prison. Dear friends, one thing is, there's a discrimination issue in prisons. Non-discriminal prisons everywhere in Turkey are highly implemented. They ask the prisoner for imams, they give him priests, they give him rabbis, they give him rabbis, he comes to grandpas, he's gone. Why? Why don't you guys, why don't you have grandpa? I'd like to meet Grandpa Alevi. Why isn't he here? That's a separate distinction, my friends. Dear friends, there are other bans in prison. Look, a girl who stays with her mother, a little girl, a one-and-a-half-year-old girl, she's not allowed to play with a battery baby, she's not allowed to play with a moving toy, she's not allowed to paint, shears. No CD player for a visually impaired patient, no MP3. Dear friends, people with cancer aren't allowed to come to prisons in healthy conditions after they've been treated. People are being tortured separately. Now, he's not sick today, but I'm giving you the names of the people who are waiting to die, friends. If these are not treated within a few days, within a month, they will die. Samet Çelik cancer, Avni Uçar cancer, Deniz Yıldız cancer, Erol Zavar cancer, Kemal Gömi - a human shame - severe schizophrenia, Mesut Deniz severe schizophrenia, Zeliha Bulut schizophrenia, Mustafa Gök, Salmani Özcan, Aygül Kapçak, Deniz Tepeli, Yasar İl, Genghis Kahraman, İnan Shepherd... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These are friends, and if they are not treated, unfortunately, they will be face to face with death. I'll continue to visit the prisons. Wherever human rights are being violated, know that we will continue to be there, and when I end my promises, there's a list of bans, friends, a list of fun curfews. I'll leave this here. I give you, all of you, respect for listening to me. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0036par0419	Thank you, Mr. Agha. The final word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Mr. Idris Şahin, Çankırı MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0037par0423	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the BDP group proposal. I salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, who are watching us on their screens. And, of course, since we're on the stand as lawyers and lawyers, I'd like to say that today is April 5th, Lawyer's Day, and I'm also celebrating this day for our esteemed colleagues, who are the keepers of the defense in our country. Dear President, honorable lawmakers, indeed, when we look at the last part of the BDP group proposal, especially the last part of the motive, there is the impression that there has been a group of suggestions given to the extreme humanitarian purpose and to the sufferings of those who remain imprisoned and imprisoned. However, the issues mentioned at the beginning and in the middle of the argument differ greatly. Therefore, it is absolutely impossible for us not to agree with the human dimension of this reason. However, in Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures, the rules for the execution of punishment and security measures apply to prisoners, language, religion, nationality, color, gender, birth, philosophy, national or social origin or other ideas and economic powers and other social positions, and no one is privileged. And in part of the same article, there is no cruel, inhuman, humiliating, and insulting acts of execution of punishment and security measures. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, as every human being is the crown of honor to us, our prisoners and prisoners in prison under the protection of the state are our crown. They need to be able to live in the best conditions, to take all kinds of steps as management, especially at the point of fixing the physical conditions that are compatible with human rights and honor. And again, the convicted or imprisoned for a crime that he committed, even though his position in prison is guaranteed by the state, let the people live. Let the state live. It would never and never suit a political party like us who claims to exist in its mental state, and we are in their consciousness, especially in the process after 2006, to shut down a hundred and eighteen district execution institutions, and to this day from 2006, especially in metropolitan cities, we are in charge of human rights and honor. But we can never expect a political power to boast about the fullness of prison or the physical conditions of prisons as human beings. We express here every time that it's the trial without arrest that's the real thing. We also work hard to ensure that the sentence of our prisoners and their families and relatives can be executed with absolute certainty. However, you can appreciate that in the 53rd and next articles of the Penal Code of Punishment and Execution, in 2007, the Department of Justice issued a general decree that prisoners and prisoners could be transferred to different institutions for their own wishes, discipline, mandatory reasons, disease, crime and trial, education and studies. The main thing is that there can only be one separation in prison, which, according to the type of crime, is the differentiation of prisons and prisons in which prisoners and prisoners remain. In any other way, an arrangement has been made in prisons based on the status of a person, his political opinion, his belief, which is a crime according to our Constitution, and is not possible for anyone to mention such an application. But I would like to make it very clear that in our 125,300-capacity prisons, there has been a serious condensation in recent days, and there have been about 132,000 prisoners and prisoners. Turkey, in particular, has a 106 per cent hailing rate, but is around 160 per cent in Eastern and Southeast regions. This, of course, requires transfers to less intensive prisons than the prisons and execution institutions around here, and these are happening within human measure. I'd especially like to state from here that in cases that have passed the term of imprisonment and continue to be tried, it is the fact that the prisoner is stationed in the nearest prison where the jurisdiction of the court is being held. For this is also necessary in order to speed up the judgment.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0038par0430	But we say it for the prisoners.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0037par0431	Almost all of it, especially with the exception of the type of crime, as I've stated, is carried out by the Department of Justice and the General Directorate of Penalty and Inquisitorship. Other than that, in cases involving political criminals in particular or terrorist organizations, it is clear to everyone that prisoners are in different wards. However, I don't think there's anyone in any of these who can claim to have faced human rights violations. In particular, as a valued colleague of ours expressed by our counterpart, the children who came to Sincan the other day from Pozant to Sincan had been informed in a newspaper that they were extremely happy, and that Sincan was much more suitable and appropriate in prison conditions. Dear lawmakers, I don't want to go too far here, but it's especially important to know that no one has been treated differently in criminal execution institutions because they are of different political views and beliefs, as it has been stated on the grounds.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0038par0433	It's a conscience!
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0039par0434	I'll send you a report. I'll send a report to your room, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0037par0435	These are the prisoners of the lawsuits that took place before the eyes of our entire nation and carried out their trial on live television. Each time, it is our desire that these prisoners and prisoners, who have the opportunity and the ability to express abuse to themselves, of course, are to be tried without arrest first, and the prisoners have better physical conditions than they are today. This is the desire and desire of the AK PARTY group, which comes from the mentality of the state, so that the people can live. I hereby declare that we will vote against this parliamentary inquiry motion on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, especially since we did not participate in the part of the justification section of the BDP. I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0040par0438	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The Peace and Democracy Party's proposal...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0041par0440	We want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0040par0441	I'll submit the proposal to your votes, and I'll look for a sufficient number of decisions. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the decision is enough, the proposal is accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0042par0443	It's not accepted, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0043par0444	Okay, thank you, Mr. President, it's accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0040par0445	I'm sorry, it wasn't accepted. I should have said, I'm sorry. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. A list of candidates for Assembly Research Commission Number 177, 177, 1779, 179, 180, 181) was published and distributed to members of political party groups in the main parliamentary research commission, which aims to ensure the development of the State's Active Employment (10/136, 176, 176, 1777, 177, 179, 179, 180, 181). Now I'm going to read the list and put it to your votes: Investigators' Search for Superior Talented Children, Challenges of Education, and Anoints of Assembly Commissions' Memberships for the Purpose of Achievement of Active Employment to Investigating the Development of Our Country [[10/136, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181]] [[10]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Slap]] [[Yalova]] [[4]] [[Ankara]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[2]] [[Adana]] [[Balıkesir]] [[1]] [[Bitlis]] Those who accept the reading list, the membership of our friends... those who refuse... the membership of the lists has been accepted. The members of the Parliamentary Research Commission are elected on Thursday -- 5/4/2012 -- so today -- at 18 p.m. I would like to request that the Parliamentary Research Commissions, the Vice President, the Speaker and the Clerk of Public Relations Building B Block 2nd and 4th Bank, meet in the meeting room. The commission's meeting place and time has also been declared on the plasma screen. Congressmans, we're moving on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster, which is ranked number two, where we left off from the Bill of Laws, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat and 15 MPs in the third place, as well as with the Law Proposal and Justice Commission Report on the Amendment to the Criminal Record Act and with the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the President of the Justice Commission. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Commission Report...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0044par0516	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement regarding this Law Proposal 215. In addition to the Justice Commission Report on the issue, the report includes the provisions of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Chairman and the Justice Commission Chairman, as written here on the cover. According to the provisions of the Civil Code, which regulate the duties of the Commission and the Parliamentary Presidency, these statements should not be present, so we should have these talks without the contents of this text. Because a similar application did not take place during talks with the National Education Commission Report on the proposal 4+4+4, where the correspondence between Parliament Speakership and the Head of the National Education Commission was not included in that report -- as he called it in the Civil Code. Again, the entry presented to the Commission by members of the Republican People's Party of the National Education Commission has not been included in the number of lines in question. Now, there is a double standard here; a procedure that is not implemented here in the 4+4+4 proposal. So, either these statements have to be made by getting out of here, or if you're going to continue this way, Mr. President, I'm going to open up a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0045par0519	Now, sir, first let me finish this sentence, and I will answer your word. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 215 rows. Now, if you'll pay attention in the Commission's Report, there's a statement from the Parliamentary Presidency that only one clause was added to the talks on the Commission, and then there's a statement on why the Commission's office added that clause as a Commission. Now, here's the thing to do: there's no article in the report on education that includes reevaluating the report to the Chairman of Parliament -- from my commission -- and here's the article. So we saw fit to submit this to the information of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0046par0523	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0045par0524	If you'll excuse me, of course, if you'd like, we can also open up a discussion of procedure.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0046par0525	Yeah, the procedural debate...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0045par0526	Against you, I presume?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0046par0527	Against you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0045par0528	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0047par0529	Mr. President, I want word in favor.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0046par0532	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the 42nd Amendment of the Interior Charter, clearly organises what should be included in the commission reports; lawmakers with their views on the meeting of the commission and on the text of these talks. (x) 215 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. If there is, it contains their writings of opposition. Article 42 is clear. Now, apart from that, the Speaker wrote a letter to the commissioner, and the commissioner returned it to the Speaker, and there is no sentence that this correspondence will be included in the commission reports. If the Parliament wishes to submit a statement under Article 49, it can present it to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The 49th article organises the agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. According to the first joke of this article, there are presentations of the President to the General Assembly, according to Article (1), if the President wishes to make a presentation. You can say, "What's wrong with it being put here?" In fact, it's not a problem, but the Speaker of Parliament has not included in the 199th-place Report on the proposal, which the Republican People's Party has written to the Parliament's Presidency on the matter, which the National Education Commission has brought to the presidency of the National Board of Education, and the presidency of the National Board of Education again, in its talks. Mr. Speaker has applied a double standard; that's the problem. I present this to the General Assembly and our nation here. The Speaker of Parliament has the right to interpret the Civil Code in his own way; the Speaker of Parliament has no right to do so. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, now, a second issue: Mr. President finds it against the Civil Code to add a clause to this proposal during the talks on this criminal record issue. It's a good thing. When we look at the Civil Code, there is no clause that allows the Speaker to return it. Mr. Speaker knows that, but he knows that's not the right thing to do. But the Commission said: "All political parties agreed on it, and we didn't have any problem adding this clause to it. I'm bringing this to your attention. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0048par0539	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Recep is Special, Isparta MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In three minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0049par0543	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to a debate on the transfer of the proposed text from the Justice Commission to the Commission. I salute you all. The Justice Commission was offered an offer on the same issue, which was based on the same issue (2/452), which changed the Law on Criminal Records, which changed the law on violence in sports, but was not on the agenda. The commissions control their own agenda. So, even if it wasn't on the agenda, the original record could combine any offer made with other offers, make it an offer, legalize it. Since our Parliamentary presidency has returned this issue, due to its absence in the commission report, the Commission, which is in control of its agenda -- not that it's a flaw -- has sent it back to the Parliamentary Presidency again without seeing a flaw. There is nothing here that is contrary to the Civil Code, which has been fully processed in the Office of the Interior Charter. Since this merger was not written in the report in the first report, our Parliamentary Presidency has been extradited due to a lack of information, and the lack of information has been reported by the Commission's President in addition to an additional article to the Parliamentary Presidency. Since there's nothing against the Civil Code, I say there's no harm, no harm, no harm, no harm, no foul, no foul, no foul.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0050par0549	Thank you, Mr. Special. Your Honor, if I may be so kind as to be against you, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0051par0552	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, indeed, are clearly defined in the Civil Code 42. It says: "The commission's opinion on the issue and the reason for the changes made by the commission. The content of the commission's report should be this or the law that comes here, but what we see here is that they put the correspondence between the Speaker of Parliament and the Chairman of the Commission here, which has no place in the Interior Charter. Such information can be made, but the written text, the bill or the whole proposal should not be included here. There's no way that's possible in the Civil Code. If we're going to create a new challenge, we need to take it separately, but in another law that we met 15 days ago, we've also encountered the opposite of that, despite all the insistences and objections, the opposite of that. In this regard, the Head of Laws and Decisions and the Secretary General must, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Parliamentary Code, bring it to the General Assembly. The chairmanship, who currently rules our House, must reevaluate the issue on its own Court and, if necessary, make a new assessment of it with the group's vice presidents. So these issues shouldn't be put to a vote by finger. At the end of such objections, this will also be a law-making function, which will increase one error by mistake. Therefore, Mr. President, we have made a commitment against your position in accordance with the Civil Code, but what needs to be done -- if you do the right thing -- is that you must be removed from this post to the Justice Commission Chairman, or you must decide as the Court, or we must hold a meeting with the members of the group. Otherwise, we'd be opening a door to change the law in illegal ways, which would never be right, which would not suit the House. We can change the law, but we can change it by staying within the law. Therefore, Mr. President, I would like to invite you to reconsider this proposal of the law at the point of open negotiations. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0052par0555	Thank you. No one else wants to say anything. Now, we've had similar examples looked at before. In cases when Parliamentary Presidency demanded that the commissions be evaluated directly in terms of the Interior Charter, Parliamentary Presidency and commission chairmanship have been placed in the rankings and pressed down. If the request for re-interview came from groups or other places, they weren't sent to the commissions and they weren't suppressed. That's general practice. Let me say it again.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0053par0558	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0052par0559	Sir?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0053par0560	Mr. President, we have written down the objections of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the way the 4+4+4 proposal was proposed, and Mr. President sent it to the National Education Commission. The National Education Commission has responded to the Speaker on its own grounds, that's one.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0052par0561	That's right.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0053par0562	Two, there's an article in the National Education Commission that the Republican People's Party members wrote to the Commissioner about why they didn't vote against it without a commission report being filed.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0052par0563	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0053par0564	Neither has this article entered the report, nor has it been written to our Speaker of Parliament, who has sent it to the President of the Commission, and has written to the President of Parliament in response. None of them were included in the commission report on that 4+4+4 proposal. Now, to inform the General Assembly here, Mr. Speaker, why doesn't the General Assembly inform the General Assembly by presenting reservations, correspondence? Mr. Speaker has applied a double standard, that's the point. Consistency requires the same behavior everywhere. If you take a different step in one place and then take a different step somewhere else, you lose your consistency. Sir, one is concerned with one clause of the Civil Code, the other is concerned with another. No one can seek refuge in a cause like this. As a result, both claim to contradict the various articles of the Civil Code. I'll include part of these views, the one about the criminal record, the other part of the report, I'll hide it from the General Assembly. You can't say that, it's here. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0568	Thank you. What you said went on the record. Again, when the Speakers themselves objected and sent them to the commissions, they put their objections together with the responses from there -- so far I'm resuming the application -- they didn't put them in when there were objections from other places. I'd like to bring this to your attention. So I'd like to suggest that our continued behavior today is at least appropriate to practice so far. If you'll excuse me, we'll continue.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0055par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0572	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0055par0573	I'm sorry, again, I didn't take a word for the extension, but what do you mean by the objections from other places?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0574	So if he's coming from other places, other than his own objections, let's say he's coming from groups, MPs, etcetera. These have not been put in the reviews, and when he directly objected -- which is also the case -- the objection and the response were written in the thesis. That's the application.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0055par0575	Sir, look, but your statement does not or does not cover my claim: our objection is not left to the Speaker, but the Speaker of Parliament has addressed the relevant Commission. That's the problem.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0576	Here's what I'm suggesting: he's written from someone else, he hasn't answered, he's sent them directly by himself so far. That's the app.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0055par0577	So a political party group makes an appeal to the Speaker. He may be consistent here if there's a correspondence between the Speaker of Parliament and the political party group, but he didn't include the Republican People's Party's objections here at 4+4+4. He hid them from the eyes of the People's Party, the General Assembly and the nation. That's the problem.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0578	He's got it all under control.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0056par0579	Mr. President, at 4+4, Mr. Speaker wrote to the President of the Commission.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0580	Except what I just said was someone else's objection, that's the difference. That's what they've done with the app so far.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0056par0581	But, sir, that objection wasn't presented here in that law proposal, it's being presented now. We're expressing the inconsistencies here. So it's an arrangement that has no place in the Civil Code, against the Civil Code, against Article 42, whether the Speaker of Parliament should do it or not.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0054par0582	I don't know about the discrepancy, but I'm presenting previous applications. If you'll excuse me, let's follow those applications, and what you said has been contained. [[Continue]] Dear friends, now, I'm going to promise our friends who want a word on the whole offer. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Omar Süha Aldan, Mughla MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Aldan, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0057par0592	Mr. President, I'm here on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group to announce my views on the generality of Law Proposition 215, which includes amendments to Articles 215, under the Law Act No. 5352 and Anti-violence in Sports 6222. In fact, this is one of the arrangements brought to the Justice Commission on March 29, 2012. The reason for this haste is that if this arrangement is not legalized by April 14th, all of the archives in the criminal record have been deleted. The Constitutional Court, on January 20, 2011 and on January 21, cancelled a sentence and a second joke in the first article of Article 12 of the Criminal Record Act, in violation of Article 1 of Article 2 and Article 2, 5 and 17 of the Constitution. Again, the Supreme Court has given the decision to enforce the cancellation provisions in order to regulate a legal gap that would violate public interest a year after it was published in the Official Gazette. A new amendment to the Supreme Court's annulment has been made to the two articles, but a amendment has been proposed in Article 8 of the Criminal Records Act, as well as a amendment to the amendment of the proposal to the amendment in some Laws under the agreement of three parties in the Court of Justice meeting, and has been changed to the Law Proposal for the prevention of Violence and Disorganisation in Sports 6222. Dear lawmakers, within the modern parliamentary system, parliament's most important task is to make law. As a rule, the law is organised to meet social expectations, to expand the scope of administrative necessity, public order, democratic rights and freedoms. Laws are fundamentally abstract and objective norms. As long as they're in motion, they need to find an application area for you to keep an eye on the person and group. Making a law also means indirect control of the executive body in terms of saving on legal ground. The law must be addressed under the rule of law and influenced by universal legal values. Again, the laws should not include provisions that create social dissolution, restrict the spaces of freedom for no reason, maintain the interests of individuals and groups, produce loss of rights; they are incompatible with the constitution and other laws, and should not be the product of what I say. Also, making a lot of laws shouldn't be seen as a source of pride because laws aren't factory products. In addition, the law does not mean collection; rather, it is important to make the law in its place. And it's unacceptable to take out the laws that extend democratic rights and freedoms and not apply them or deliver them into the hands of bad appliances. Such provisions should not be used as tools to play roles as an apostle of democracy. The law should not be seen as a source of political singing cunning, as it is not a means of satisfaction for the pleasure of compressing the opposition by being brought up with last-minute attacks. However, there is a bad habit of law that is personal and politically beneficial: when the day comes, it will shoot its maker, and when it is shot, it will not be able to make a sound. Laws are not just a system of modern parliamentary systems; dictators have laws, but they are regulations that aim to keep the current administration at work, which lack the values and rules that we state above. In this respect, parliament's primary duty should be not to make law, but to make good law. The good law must carry three basic elements: first, the current arrangement must be written in accordance with the method of lawmaking; second, it must be based on as much common wisdom and effort as possible; and third, it must not contain specific provisions. Dear lawmakers, can we say that as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we are acting in accordance with the technique of making laws? Absolutely not. The most important proof of this judgment is the work and so forth that we are now discussing. As much as a new bill or bill, we may have to discuss changes in the law at a higher rate. I didn't keep the statistics, but I guess I wouldn't be surprised to see that there's been no change in the laws adopted in recent years. We're hearing the same words on the parliamentary agenda: "The Bill of Law or Proposal for Changes in Some Articles of the Law at Point." I mentioned that many times in the past few months, when we were talking about the amendment to the Law on Violence in Sports, I would have to make changes about this Law, and before a few months, we would still have to make a change. In fact, the existing laws may, of course, require a change from time to time in social dynamics, but the main reason for changes to the agenda of the General Assembly is that either it cannot find social response or it contains provisions that contradict the Constitution or other laws. So we don't have regulations that fit the law technique, and since our House isn't doing its part, or, more accurately, we can't give our people good laws. And among the reasons for these changes are those that don't seem to be in the power's best interests or that you don't like the conjunctive. Unfortunately, the migration is fucked on the road. There is a majority of the Parliament. If we need more, we can fix it, and then it can bring carelessness with it. However, as the law becomes a puzzle board, lawmakers are wasting valuable time, causing loss of rights, and such sloppy regulations hurt a lot of people. I suggest that those who view the opposition's rights as an attempt to block Parliamentary work from the Civil Code should look at the issue from that angle. Again, one of the things that needs to be focused on in terms of the law technique is the long keeping of the substances. Almost every item consists of numerous choices and jokes. We are now dealing with the fact that the issues of law should be given in the Constitution and in the regulations. Another phenomenon is that there is not much common sense and effort in legal regulations. One minute, in the ruling party's programme, in the government programme, even in the rhetoric of the ruling authorities, the proposal or the bill is on the agenda. We are witnessing the culinary products of a specific group, which the ruling party MPs, even those in executive positions, are unaware of. Of course, such arrangements often involve either the background or the marginal benefit of power. The reason is always the same, either that's what the people wanted according to the arrangement. Or it's an arrangement that we bring into the integration process. Besides, you say that each country has its own unique conditions, that the arrangement that is meant to be brought in is not applied or applied in any country of Europe, because no one listens to you. The arrangement is not required to be discussed. Academic thoughts aren't respected. Earth specimens are being ignored. Our party, which started in June 12th elections with 50 per cent of our nation's people's vote -- most of its copycats are being scorned by the insufferable talks of democracy. Of course, the opposition can also make attempts to deserve criticism. Of course, having a large majority of votes and deputies can be a source of pride. But if this painting has become an ego, I mean, talk as much as you can, brother. If it has reached the point, we have a major problem. It's not a healthy mental reflection of our political world, especially when you despise opposition, or even further, and you don't know this kind of work. Because the sense of self - control of opposition comes with a sense of unnecessary view of opposition as soon as the understanding of opposition begins to dominate the self. But good or bad is the reason democracy exists, the opposition, as the ruling mortals will one day taste. While it can be understood that the opposition is tense in the stress of being in the minority, the tyranny of the country's sovereign power is not a reasonable course of action. Although the understanding that is possible may be occasionally, may I be the one to drive this opposition out of its way? For all these reasons, laws should not be a means of implementing a person's ambitions, longings and plans, and parliaments should not be seen as an institution dedicated to that purpose. In short, you need to quickly get rid of the special task force's Capitol image. At this point, every member of parliament is assigned to whatever his party is. It's important to look at the deputy leader's finger and see what ours are doing instead of listening to the voice of conscience and realizing that they're being free. Today, it is not important to say, "It is the work of independent judgment," or to complain about unfair judgments, after having done all sorts of things in the sense that there is an issue of law killings by the hands of jurisprudence. The legislature has the power to align the rule of law with the rule of law. Therefore, Parliament and the MPs under this roof are responsible for poor implementation as bad as bad law. Dear lawmakers, my friends will state their views on the matter. I'd like to make a brief summary. We have some concerns about the first article, and I'd like to share it with you. In fact, the criminal record documents are strictly issued by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, but with administrative measures and certain courts closed, it was difficult for citizens to obtain criminal records. For this purpose, the districts of which there are no main courts, where there are no courts, were given such authority to the subsidiary by Article 8 of the Criminal Records Act. In summary, it means that from now on in the counties, both the state's attorney general and the subsidiaries will be able to provide this document. So an exceptional state has been transformed into a general state, and we think there are some serious issues. Because first of all, criminal records are classified documents, and there's a problem with the disclosure of these classified documents from very different points. The Constitution on the preservation of personal data must be set aside by the Article 20/3 of our Constitution, and the law on the protection of personal data soon to be taken into account, and the Articles 11 and 13 of the Criminal Register Act must be carefully examined. In this sense, our opinion is that it is absolutely and absolutely exceptional that the subsidiaries give us a criminal record. Let me put it this way: the drug is sold from the pharmacy, not from the store. The Department of Justice has a Criminal Records and Statistics General Directorate, which has online connections, and I think if we want to cut lines in front of the courthouse, we can get rid of this problem by increasing the number of employees or the number of equipment. Dear lawmakers, on the 2nd article of the proposal, we have a proposal earlier made by Mr. Emine Gülter Tarhan and Mr. Riza Turmen, and we see that this offer has not been merged. Such a long record of the archives in the criminal record cannot be kept by the Constitutional Court, and this is contrary to Articles 2, 5 and 17... we feel that this arrangement, which he made after his determination, did not meet much of what the Constitutional Court had said. In this sense, our proposal is to keep a record of an archive for more than five years in prison and no archive records for less than five years in prison. This is an attempt that would be more appropriate for human rights. My dear friends, the application of electronic tickets in accordance with the agreement of all parties regarding Law 6222 has been postponed as a temporary solution for the first league teams. We don't think that this arrangement, where personal data, personal information, can be distributed in some way, can be applied in the present. I think this substance should all be removed from effect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have a few things to say to the members of the court. The main purpose of law and judgment is to achieve what is called justice. In addition, the efforts of those involved in the trial under the principle of equality of weapons are ultimately aimed at reaching the truth. In all stages, a correct and secure trial must be carried out. For this reason, judges in the decision office must have sufficient information on the case and the findings in the case of the trial, as well as on the general legal knowledge of any kind of influence. So in order to achieve what is called justice, the judge must be informed, impartial, courageous, and balanced in addition to the other elements of the trial. In addition, it is imperative that the judge, the Republican prosecutor, the lawyer, the expert witness and witnesses involved in the trial act are not involved in any illegal approach or relationship with any real justice. There is no doubt that the Turkish judiciary should be kept away from who and whatever understanding it comes from, whether it comes from, or whether it comes from the fact that it exists or whether it is against the will of the truth. Judgement places should not be a door to someone's interests or a place where wrongful demands can be legitimized. In this regard, judicial members should be kept out of any influence, but should avoid the effects of personal longing and thoughts while performing their professions. I salute you with respect to all our lawyers' Day.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0058par0622	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora is the second speaker on the proposal. Mr. Dora, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0059par0627	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the Proposal for the Amendment to the Law on Criminal Records 215 rows. I salute you all. Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers have been extended to those who would like to enter the university entrance examination, to those who would like to enter the university entrance examination, to those who would like to enter the official and even to those who would like to enter private institutions, or to those who would like to enter the university entrance exam, or to those who would like to apply for a passport. The expansion of this process to non-legal areas violates the privacy of private life and the principles of public administration. Apart from a number of exceptions to the specificity of the subject, it is a new punishment apart from legal punishment that a person's conduct is punished in various areas of his life or is constantly on the agenda. The exceptions brought with the law should not cause this inconvenience, nor damage the privacy of private life. Laws and regulations require a criminal record search for all public officials and some workers. It is known that there is no legal structure to this situation. Every agency wants a criminal record as if every place of business is perfectly normal. As you know now, all criminal record information, including records of Turkish citizens and foreigners who have been convicted by Turkish courts or foreign courts and are recognised by Turkish law, is kept in central criminal record at the Forensic Record and Statistics General Directorate. The criminal record bank still has 6 million 843,133 criminal records of 5 million 495,46 people. With the billing of the bill, 1 million 826,992 criminal records will be deleted. In this case, 129,000 criminal records will be dropped because 522,000 criminal records have been restored by the courts for over 30 years. 769000 criminal records to delete will be delayed, and the date of the decision will cover what happened before 2007. As you may recall, the Constitutional Court also granted visas for deletion of criminal records of criminal acts, such as embezzlement, theft, bribery, fraud, and criminal acts of special laws. Even if the Supreme Court, which annulled the exception in Article 2 of the Criminal Records Act, was deleted from its criminal record, would not be a life-long lack of rights in Article 12 of the Criminal Records Act concerning the death of the person and, in any case, the death of the person by the time the registration was brought back. The verdict said that the circumstances that constituted the registration of sentences made by the courts were not granted a lifetime right to the person, except for some exceptions, but that there was no life-long absence of rights in the penal code, and that the lack of rights was limited for a period of time. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, even though there are some improprieties within the proposal of the law, we believe that the Constitutional Court is in harmony with its cancellation ruling last year regarding the criminal record records. However, it was a meaningful decision for our citizens in the districts of which there were no courts, and the arrangement to provide exceptional convenience meant that they would be free of the suffering of receiving criminal records for many citizens. The final state of the bill in front of us has been made problematic by our opinion, as it eliminates this exceptional situation. The fact that the criminal record can also be given by the subsidiaries may be considered a facilitator, but in this case, it would be a violation of rights by other institutions other than the prosecutor's office. Given the specificity of the criminal record, the original institution that provides this document must be the state prosecutors of the republic and other institutions must be kept to a minimum, depending on the obligation to perform this function. It has been ruled that the criminal record document is private, that the criminal record and archive information in Article 11 of the Criminal Records Act is confidential, that it cannot be disclosed or used except for purpose. On the other hand, under Article 13 of the same law, the authority to conduct interrogations under an investigation and prosecution is only recognised to judges and prosecutors and the approval of the Minister of Justice for which other institutions can be questioned. We agree that the state has a unit, but we think it's a problem to increase the number of state-owned institutions in the knowledge of private information. The 20th article of our Constitution on the preservation of personal data is sahih. Hence, such a change would also mean a violation of the relevant Article of the Constitution. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to address a very flammable issue that comes to the agenda from time to time, but is largely ignored in the rush of law enforcement. The last general elections, both the turnout and the transparency of elections, and again the election results, were cited as an example of the positive reflection of the national will, despite the 10% threshold, in the whole world and in our country. Just after the elections, however, the situation of the arrested MPs occupied the country's agenda. I regret to say that the justice mechanism in Turkey does not work for rights and freedoms. We observe the simplest example of this in the state of imprisonment that turns into torture. Now eight of our fellow deputies are inside, and they're waiting for the day they'll be free, even though they've won the public's favor by their votes. So, when will these friends' cases be over? What I really want to emphasize here today is that arrests must first be in accordance with internal law and the European Court of Human Rights decisions, which Turkey is a party to. One of the highlights of the European Court of Human Rights is the importance of assurances within Article 5 to prevent people from being arrested in a democratic society by authorities on a arbitrary basis. This emphasis is not only in accordance with national law and procedure, it must also be in line with the purpose of Article 5 of the contract, which aims to protect a person from arbitrary arrests. This important principle reveals that an act, which is a violation of individual freedom, must first be in harmony with civil law, but that it is not enough alone, and that action must be in accordance with the contract. In many of the court's decisions, this verdict is repeated. The European Court of Human Rights has made this assessment concrete in these terms: ▪ It is a complementary part of the contractual obligations of contracting states when they refer directly to internal law, as in Article 5 of the contract. Therefore, the court is authorized to supervise whether such a fitness is available. A state, which is part of the contract, is therefore obliged to protect and improve everyone's right to freedom and security, without subjecting to any other distinctions and discrimination. The difference between depriving freedom and restricting freedom and restricting freedom is not only a degree and density and a difference in quality and self-explanatoryness of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the European Court of Human Rights argues that if the nature of the freedom restrictions is not too clear, it follows a detailed way of arguing in its decisions, and whether this freedom restrictions can be judged as a lack of freedom. Congressmans, in this context, the mechanism of justice should view the state of detention as a measure, not a means of punishment. Our fellow lawmakers who are currently in prison are reflected in society as criminals. Beccaria, one of the famous lawyers, sums up the causality of innocence in a way that almost everyone would agree: no one can be called guilty before the judge's verdict. The community can't afford public protection of the person unless the previous agreed-upon social agreements decide that it violates public order. In terms of the objective of reasoning on the basis of the investigation of the material truth, the purity of innocence affects debates on the tolerance of the arrest period, which has been imposed on the danger of escaping and blackening evidence. Because the longer the arrest goes on, the greater the danger that the accused will be able to bear the thought that his guilt has been proven and become a pre-existing punishment. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the arrest period must be determined in light of the criteria for the purpose, but at the same time, the unsub must have an absolute upper limit, despite all the right reasons, given the humanitarian benefits. The time of arrest of our fellow trustees who are now in prison has been reduced to a measure of execution. Is it so hard for Parliament, who's turned into a law factory, who's working on lawmaking until midnight, to make laws for our fellow trustees and hundreds of political cases in their positions? It is also possible to operate the mechanism of the judicial control system according to Article 109 of the Penal Code. Which of the MPs inside will flee the country? If you have such an opinion, you can operate a forensic control mechanism with a ban on leaving the country. Shouldn't the trial of the Lighthouse case have done the same for the arrested MPs, which released the defendants in accordance with the judicial control system? The absence of arrested MPs who have earned the right to legislature, the failure to perform the duties of the MPs authorized by the public to represent themselves, and the failure of the people's will to be represented in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In connection with the situation of the arrested MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc said he felt sorry for the situation of the arrested MPs who were elected MPs and who were not able to take the oath and begin their duties. Regarding the situation of the arrested MPs, he stated that their incarceration was disrespectful to the national will. Mr. Arinc said the laws on the fight against terrorism related to the situation of the arrested MPs need to be reviewed, stressing that the relevant substances must be rearranged without looking at who the arrested MPs are. What's a member of the government waiting for that kind of statement to the newspapers? Let's not forget that while our detainees are inside, the legitimacy of our House will be increasingly questioned. In addition, it is not understandable that there were arrested MPs during the period when a party in place to continue the negotiations process actively with the European Union was in power. Not in democratic countries, in any country in the world, there's nothing like what we have. In terms of our country, it is not possible to explain the situation with international law contracts, which we are on the same side with the principles of our Constitution. Critics on the politicalisation of the judiciary have long been carried out and leave the government under suspicion. In the eyes of the community, there is no decision in cases associated with political power, there is no independent decision of the judiciary. The understanding of the judiciary is now established. In this regard, meeting the concerns of society must be the government's top priority. Mr. President, good lawmakers, no rule of law is perfect. Any legal procedure can be wronged. It's the state itself that needs to correct these faulty procedures. The situation of the arrested MPs, who are accepted by everyone who has hurt their public conscience deeply, must be resolved immediately under the roof of the House. I call on every political party in the House to take office on this matter, and I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0060par0652	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Faruk Bal. Here you go, Mr. Honey. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0061par0657	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, Ahmet Ozan Sharlak, who was a martyr in Hakkari, I pray to the Lieutenant in the name of God. This is where I condemn the Manavgat Kaymakam of the gendarmes, who was a long-standing family of Akşehir, who went to Manavgat for the bread money and sold there. This is where I condemn the idea of a state that even invites a martyr father to your feet. The state has a sense of service to the nation and citizens, and it is because it has to take the services to the citizens' feet. However, I condemn the state sense of giving the martyr's news to the father who was invited to the police station, and I wish that this understanding, which has become cancerous within the state administration, would end quickly. On the other hand, today, on the basis of Lawyer's Day, one of the three elements of the judicial community is celebrating the Day of Lawyers of my esteemed colleagues in the field of defense, all of them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Mr. President, I stand before you to present the views of the National Movement Party, in connection with the amendment to the Law on Criminal Records, which is expected to be made due to a Constitutional Court ruling. The National Movement Party has established opposition on a constructive, guiding ground. So I say that my talks should be evaluated in this perspective. The Constitutional Court has cancelled this law as of April 14th, and as a result, a year of law has been granted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Today is the 5th day of April. So if this law had already been passed by Turkey's Grand National Assembly, it would have been possible to pass the law in accordance with its purpose by making a more mature contribution. However, in the ten days in between, we will only have to make our assessments on the bill. Article 1 of the bill is authorized to give legal records to the governors where there are no original courts. My dear friends, this means that we must turn to the administration of a job that the judiciary must do. On the other hand, the criminal record is a place where confidential information is stored in the trust of the justice body. Therefore, we find it wrong to submit to the subsidiaries, which are part of the process. In fact, it would be: Today in Turkey, because there are 160 small districts, we have closed courts. If these are borough status, then the state must take the judicial service there, too, if it is the body of a nation founded to bring the services to the citizens' feet. We can't accept such an understanding of the cost of bringing judicial services there, of avoiding certain expenses in the presentation of judicial services. That was the wrong app. This error has never been corrected by the Justice and Development Party's ruling. The truth is, it's not right to employ two prosecutors, two judges in a small district, but in our past, there could be justice services for that district without a judge and a republican prosecutor, in small counties, with an understanding that could turn the problems that we've faced into service at the moment of trial. Although the Nationalist Movement Party had followed a leading opposition at the point of repeating and revealing it over and over again and bringing the justice service to the citizens' feet, we have unfortunately found that no positive step has been taken so far. In fact, I've come to tell you today. My dear friends, on the other hand, an arrangement has been made regarding electronic tickets concerning the fourth article of the bill. This arrangement has nothing to do with this law. So, it's against the law-making technique. Such additions during the commission process later bring out major problems, and the problems that arise are unfortunately keeping the judiciary and the judicial community seriously occupied, with new problems. My dear friends, with this bill, there are arrangements for the period of time within the framework of principles set by the Constitutional Court. I'd like to repeat in a sentence what our dear friends in the Justice Commission, the MPs from the National Movement Party, have expressed. We hope that this rushed law does not result in the execution of repeated provisions due to the reduced deadlines. My dear friends, the National Party of Action will vote positively and make an effort to legalise this law, even though it also considers that the contribution to maturity has not been passed in parliament due to the lack of time. On the other hand, I'd like to express one more sentence before that, which was discussed in Turkey. Have you ever heard of the word "designed lawmakers"? It counts as data. You've never heard of the data count. It is a new word that the Nationalist Movement Party has brought to the Turkish language. It's been four years since it entered our Turkish language. It means we've made this word, which is known as the data mining, but is misused in the form of everi mandenism, which is why it's not used in our language, not in the way of mining, but in the way that it's inspired by computers. Why? To get I.T. technology into the justice service. Now, we've been putting this in election statements since 1999 -- I've got the Minister's system here to express it -- and we're putting artificial intelligence on the agenda to present it in the service of the judiciary, so we're putting it in the party program with technological support for real reform in both arms. More than a year ago, the Ministry of Justice also did not use the term "investigating," but what we have expressed is a study of the installation of technology into the judiciary. The idea is owned by the National Movement Party, and its political rights belong to the National Movement Party. Therefore, the National Movement Party would be honored and honored to have such a study done and put into practice, but it also expects that, as a courtesy, we are putting it into practice, and we will help you. Our goal is to serve justice. There's more. What's more, we'll help you with artificial intelligence. We would like to contribute to the implementation of artificial intelligence, which would end the trial with zero errors, which could also present the errors the judge could make with computer technology. We did this, using artificial intelligence to build a prototype of computer technology that ended a trial with zero errors. We want the justice system to benefit from it, our goal is to serve justice, not to hurt the finger that justice cuts. Mr. Secretary, I'm not saying this to your witness, but of course we expect that kind behavior. On the other hand, my dear friends, two issues are a matter of serious debate in Turkey. That's new, too. As of April 4th, I also remember our late Basbug here with mercy, gratitude, gratitude, and thanks, the trial of September 12th began on his death date. With this trial, an attack against the Nationalist Movement Party has also begun in some media organs, in some media organs, and in some politicians' language. You were involved in the case and opposed to it in the Constitutional amendment. You said "No" in the referendum. Yes, we said no in the referendum. Why did we say no? Because a healthy September 12th trial will not be carried out by the removal of the 15th article from the Constitution. That's what happened today. How'd he get out? The statute of limitations was revealed by the debates, and the sentence was executed. When this constitutional amendment was made, if we could add wisdom to the tip of the fingers, you would then vote for the National Movement Party's motion to prevent these problems, and these problems would not be discussed today. The National Movement Party's motions are in the Parliamentary record, and the statute of limitations and judgment of the Lehe would be carried out by means of a constitutional solution to the disputes. My dear friends, we opposed the referendum held on September 12, 2010. Why did we object? Because we opposed the politicalisation of the judiciary because there were provisions that could make the issues of rights, law, justice that exist more problematic. Today, you all know what these problems are. You, as the AKP Group, have, of course, decided, of course, that the previous, of course, was lacking, that there were questionable decisions, which, of course, were made. You have caused new wounds to be opened by scratching and scratching the bleeding wound in the judiciary, which we have criticised, which, by saying, you have washed the blood with blood with blood. The problem is standing in the same place, the seat is in the same place, and you replaced the people sitting in the seat of the Supreme Judiciary, so you saw that the judgment that you accused of being in the rear yard of the CHP has become the front yard of the AKP. We said it, you didn't believe it. Now, Mr. President of the Constitutional Court, Hashim Kılıç Bey is singing. So there's a lot of politicalism or political pressure that the Supreme Court might be uncomfortable with, and the President of the Constitutional Court isn't saying that out of the blue. Moreover, one of the last to make such criticism, such criticism to power, is Mr. Kılıç. That means the knife's up to the bone. Dear friends, let's make up our minds. More serious than this has come to pass: Have we not seen together in the MIT investigation what the politicalized judiciary means to eliminate the control mechanisms within itself, to give the judiciary an uncontrollable power within itself? Why did you quickly change the 26th Amendment of the MIT Law? To free a number of members of the MIT from the political power of the judiciary, which has become political in another way. Dear friends, this is your wound. We tried to explain the birth of this wound in the 2010 referendum. Nobody listened to us! These two concrete truths have spread all over Turkey, my dear friends. What is Turkey's most serious problem in the polls today? When you ask, "What is wrong with Turkey?" There is no terror, no separatism, no unemployment; there is no politicalisation of the judiciary; there is a complaint against injustice. This is a very serious situation, a very serious problem. This problem needs to be resolved immediately. Now, at the point of your investigation into the MIT, since you have the power seal, you've changed the substance related to MIT with a palliative measure, has the problem of the judiciary been resolved? No. What do you want with people who don't have a seal? What should the opposition do in the attacks on opposition parties where the trial was used as a weapon? What should the mayors of the MHP do? What are the councilmen gonna do? My dear friends, don't you have a bad conscience? In the wake of an operation by the nationalist Movement Party, a political judiciary, such injustice in Eregli district of Ereğli, Ereğli Municipality, an injustice in the measure of conscience, where a friend of ours could not stand this injustice, this injustice, he committed suicide. Of course, your fingers must also be responsible for this suicide. If a person can commit suicide in prison in a frame of injustice, if we're looking for a responsibility here, then the first address of this responsibility is the ruling party. We've elected the mayor of Adana, the capital city. I wonder why we chose. Two months later, the mayor of Adana Metropolitan is suspended for a false cause. After that, the Interior Minister extends his suspension two months, two months, two months, two months, and two months in violation of the European Court of Human Rights, and Mayor Adana, who has been elected to Adana, cannot be mayor of Adana. The inspector has gone to Adana. There has been no serious corruption alleged in these seventy-three cases. They're suing for election crime. My dear friends, when this injustice is judged by the politicalisation of the judiciary, it spins, it spins, it returns one day, and if this account can return even when you are in power, then I can't imagine how many winters will happen to you since Turkey is a democratic country, in the case of the MIT investigation, and in the Constitutional Court's speech, you won't be in power. My dear friends, I congratulate you all again on this day of the profession of lawyers, who are part of the judiciary with these feelings and thoughts, and I salute you all with the thought that we can all serve justice together, that we will all see the days when justice will not hurt the finger cut by justice.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0062par0678	Thank you, Mr. Honey. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. Here you go, Mr. Kubat. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0063par0683	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to explain our views on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the current Law Proposal 215. On this occasion, I salute your high council. The provisions, which are the subject of this proposal, are mainly included in Articles 82, 83 and 84 of the Law Bill 1,565 rows currently in the Justice Commission, but I will address the reasons for which these provisions should be turned into proposals and brought to the agenda today. Dear lawmakers are determined by the Law of Criminal Records 5352, which is still in effect on June 1, 2005, in accordance with Law 3682. Following the transfer of all criminal record information to the computer environment, including records of Turkish citizens and foreigners who have been convicted by Turkish courts or foreign court courts and have been recognised according to Turkish law, the Justice Department's Forensic Record and Statistics General Directorate has a central criminal record. Article 4 of the Law on Criminal Records No. 5352 has been shown to the criminal record, and Article 9 has included regulations concerning the removal of criminal records and the registration of them in the archive. According to this, the completion of the execution of the criminal record or the security measure will be removed from the complaint that eliminates the sentence with all consequences, or the effective regret, the timeout of punishment, or a general pardon will be taken into the archive by the Criminal Records and Statistics General Directorate. As you can see, it is considered sufficient that the execution be completed so that the criminal record of a conviction can be deleted and the information stored in the archive. Dear lawmakers, there are some legal reasons why it is necessary to keep the criminal record and archive information. The second joke of the Article 76, which regulates the parliamentary qualifying of the Constitution, has been banned from public service, with those sentenced to one year or more prison sentences, other than criminal charges or aggravated imprisonment, and those convicted of crimes such as embezzlement, conflict, theft, bribery, the nature of the crime, the amount and type of punishment, have ruled that they cannot be elected MPs, even if they have been pardoned. In various special laws such as the Law on Firearms 6136, the Law on State Officers, Judges and Prosecutors' Law (h) is also considered to be an obstacle to the 8th Amendment (h), the Notary Act, Insurance Murakabe Law, the Free Accountant, the Financial Advisors' Law, and the Law on Private Security Services, even if a portion of the Law on Special Security Services is pardoned, and a portion of the Law on certain crimes are also prohibited from taking certain jobs and using certain rights. As stated in the grounds of the Judiciary Law, there are legal and constitutional requirements for the execution of the institutions that allow for personalisation of the sentence, such as delaying, setting up the basic punishment, delaying the public trial, and rescinding the sentence, as stated in the grounds of the Turkish penal code, the fact that a person's crime or punishment which prevents him from being elected as a member of parliament is part of the 76-leading Article of the Constitution. Therefore, the offenses and penalties mentioned in the special laws mentioned earlier with Article 76 of the Constitution have been taken into the archive, according to Article 10 of the Criminal Records Act, to be given to relevant institutions at request, and are not legally allowed to be deleted except in Article 12 of the same Law. According to Article 12 of the Law, the archive information can only be deleted if the person's death or registration is entered -- that is, 80 years from the date of the archive -- or if the verb is removed from being a crime, or if there is a decision to be acquitted or punished as a result of abolition in the interest of the law. With this arrangement, the quality of crime and the amount of punishment, regardless of the amount of punishment, has been provided for a single period of time to be removed from the archive record, and the weights of crime and punishment are not taken into account. For example, the archive record of a person convicted of eight months in a simple injury accident and a person sentenced to 15 years in prison for attempted murder can only be deleted in the current arrangement of death or eighty years. According to Article 14 of the Criminal Records Act, decisions on the deletion of information in the archive will be made by a panel of three judges in the new system. In this system, courts have not been authorized to remove the criminal record or archive from the criminal record of the crimes committed after the law entered into force on June 1, 2005. The previous and later laws contain different regulations. Thus, at the point of the removal of the information on prior convictions from the criminal record and archive on June 1, 2005, the interim Article 2 of the Criminal Register Law brought an arrangement. According to the interim Article 2, what kind of action is being made as of the date of the crime in terms of records that have not been issued in accordance with Law 3682, which has been issued prior to the execution of this Law. According to this, the records that have completed the eradication of this law for prior crimes shall be deleted from the criminal record, and those who do not fill the terms of deletion in the timeline will be in the archives and will be expunged, provided that the provisions of the Constitution is kept in the 76th article and the provisions of the special laws remain in place. According to this regulation in the second joke of the Interim Article 2 of the article, it is the court's right to decide whether to remove the contents of the criminal record from the information taken prior to 1 June 2005. According to this, if the courts have expired in Article 8 of the former law, which is an average of five years, ten years for crimes such as embezzlement, bribery, and a year for misdeeds. If the conditions for this verdict to be fundamentally ignored will determine that the criminal record information should be removed from the archive, but it will not be possible for the Constitution to be removed from the context of the 12th article, even if it is pardoned by the 76th article and special laws. The Constitutional Court has ruled that such a lengthy preservation of the archive records of all crimes, the quality or weights of crime and punishments, should be determined for all criminals without consideration, and would not be fair and proportionate to the purpose of making it necessary to be taken into the archive record of the period, and this annulment was issued in the Official Gazette, dated April 14, 2001. The Constitutional Court ruled that this verdict should be carried out a year later in the absence of a legal loophole. It will expire on April 14, 2012. That's one of the reasons why this arrangement has to be brought to the High Council. Dear lawmakers, with the amendment to Article 8 of the existing law, the MPs of the worthy opposition have just stated that the subsidiaries -- not to be found -- will provide these records because the school, work, and candidacy applications are specifically required. This arrangement has been brought to facilitate the work of citizens. This legal registering point, which is now 699, will then rise to 1.592. Once again, the decree to cancel the records of the archive, which is 80 years old and in the wake of death, has been determined to be deleted in accordance with the grounds of the Constitutional Court's cancellation of the Constitutional Court's decision, if the conditions for the release of the rights in accordance with Article 76 and other special laws have been made, if the decision has been made to be made, for fifteen years, if the decision has not been made, will be deleted at the end of 30 years, if the decision has not been made. This is 76, and if, for example, an eight-month sentence for injury has been committed outside the special law, it can be erased to the archives by five years. In Article 2 of the former Law, it has also been agreed that a period of 15+15, the maximum number of 30 years, should be applied in terms of those convictions, referring to the record of criminal records taken into the archive, as well as to a reference to the existing 12th article. Again, an important amendment brought in by the law was given to the General Directorate of Forensic Records and Statistics under a new regulation, which was formerly a court-owned and fully formal procedure. I hope that the arrangement will benefit greatly in practice, and I salute the Grand General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0064par0698	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Speeches for the group are complete. On behalf of his people, Mr. Hakan Sergeant. Mr. Sergeant, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0065par0703	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation first with respect and love. The bill we're talking about is authorized to give a criminal record to all the trustees on the home market. Therefore, we facilitate our citizen's business, especially by giving to lawmakers the issue of receiving criminal records, which are a major challenge in major cities where courthouses are gathering in central areas. On this occasion, I wish the offer to be good luck, and I wish it to be good for our nation.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0066par0707	Thank you. Second speaker, Aksaray MP İnceöz.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0067par0710	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf, on the general part of the motion to make changes to the criminal record law. Because I'm a lawyer, I'm especially celebrating the Day of Lawyers on April 5th, of all my colleagues who listen to us and are among us. We've just been given detailed information on what the law brings, in general, on the names of our group. With this law, our citizens' jobs will be much easier. I thank all my friends who have worked hard to prepare the proposal, and all my deputies who will soon support their votes, and I wish the offer to be a blessing, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0068par0715	Thank you, Mr. Incescuz. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure according to the Civil Code 81 and 60. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0069par0719	Mr. President, thank you. Now, this law is a one-pointer. Of course, the General Directorate of Ankara is in Yenişehir. It's been going on for a long time, but I still wish you well. In the past months, there have been 391 temporary workers working at the schools in Adana. They were called laid off, this one. Two, earlier in Adana, there have been many arrests for corruption on behalf of the public in Adana's Numune Hospital, highways, municipalities, courthouse doors. It was on the news today, and again, 20 public officials were taken into custody for damaging the state. Its reason is: "We have received 50 percent of the votes. " It is because of the once-in-a-lifetime construction of political elites. Thank you, Mr. Justice Minister, if he can answer these questions.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0070par0724	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0071par0726	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I'm amazed at the face of this council, sitting in this government. The Lighthouse, which destroyed justice in the Ministry of the Age, is the work of this unclean lantern, which I carry.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0072par0728	Mr. President, what right does he have to insult the Minister?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0071par0729	Three years have passed, five years have passed, and the prosecutors who served at the Lighthouse have been suspended, and they still don't know what's in place.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0072par0730	That's no way to talk about the Minister of this country, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0071par0731	How's this Lighthouse coming along? If these prosecutors aren't doing their job, why is he sitting there? Many people have been inside, Ergün Poyraz -- the children of Moses; Abdullah Gül and Recep Tayyip Erdogan -- for four years, his indictment has not been filed. What face is he sitting here with?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0072par0732	Mr. President, please step in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0071par0733	The people who were transferred to the prison are on fire on the road, killing eight citizens. Isn't that his responsibility? What face is he sitting here with?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0072par0734	Mr. President, do not allow insults.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0071par0735	How is this person, who has completely politicalized justice, on this mission?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0073par0736	Sir, that's not a question, is that a question?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0071par0737	As Congress, we want to be treated with respect. Today, judges, impartial judges and prosecutors are removed from office at all times, or taken elsewhere. Judges...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0074par0739	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0075par0740	What are you thanking me for, Mr. President, thank you for the insult?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0074par0741	Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0076par0742	Mr. President, it's the opposition that makes governments democratic, it's the defense that makes judgment fair. I'm celebrating the day of our defense attorneys in difficult circumstances. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary that it has nothing to do with this law, but we have fellow bailiffs who are carrying the burden of the courthouse, and their biggest concern is that they be taken into the general administrative services class. Does the Ministry bureaucrats or the Ministry of Justice have any work on the matter, if at what stage is it? I want information on this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0077par0745	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0078par0747	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've told you many times what happened in Osmaniye Prison. I've been calling you all week, and you won't return my calls. And I sent you a fax, and you didn't answer it. Mr. Secretary, I believe there's a hunger strike on his 45th day. People come close to death every day. The solution to this is simple, a few interferences. If you haven't received the report I sent you, I'll present it to you, and if it does, please do what you have to do, because when there's a death there, you'll be responsible for it. Nothing, nothing, is worth more than human life. We can save these people from death by taking into account the innocent desires there. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0079par0751	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0080par0753	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't take seriously the voice of Mr. Halaman, who asked the first question because of the acoustics, but as far as I can tell, a criticism of the dismissal of staff in the municipality and an investigation and detention...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0081par0755	It's not about the city, it's at the Ministry of National Education... I asked the Minister, he didn't answer.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0080par0756	He says it's related to the Ministry of National Education. Not that I know of, but I'll get the answer from the minister and send it to you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Young didn't have any questions, he just made some evaluations.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0082par0758	What do you mean, no? I asked about the Lighthouse. Why are you slacking off?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0080par0759	In relation to this... the investigation of the Lighthouse is ongoing by prosecutors involved in the Ankara Courthouse. We'll see it together when it comes out.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0082par0760	You're constantly affecting the judges, prolonging the investigation.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0080par0761	Mr. Köse had a question about the transfer of the bailiff's class from the assistant service class to the general administrative services class, which had been burdened by the courts. That's a fair question. We think it needs to be done. We have some preparations for that. There's also a meeting with the Treasury Department, and hopefully, we've got a lot to work out. Mr. Horseman said I haven't been able to reach him in a week. Mr. Horseman, I've been abroad, I've been in Germany, so there may have been trouble with access, but my fellow lawmakers will know that I'm trying to get back to whoever the ruling opposition was looking for, trying to meet their appointment demands. I have no special attitude towards you, especially not being on your phone, so I'd like to point out. I was able to see that note yesterday morning about the painting in Osmaniye Prison. There, however, are some rules that we must apply in order to maintain sustainability in prison, and there are principles that we cannot bend. There are demands here for unlimited passage between the wards, so that he can go to any ward he wants and come to any ward, where he can switch places. Especially when it comes to the intensity of prisons, unless these are done with a specific system, we won't be able to maintain the peace in prisons. In the note you mentioned, I said, "Work if we can meet our friends, and if we can afford any of this, we can afford it." But again, the rules in prisons are based on long experience. We bring new rules here, we bend some practices, we bring new regulations according to the conditions of the day, none of which are unchanging nastiness. However, we have a responsibility to govern and to ensure the safety of the prisoners and the safety of the institution. We have to find and maintain an optimal point in these, and we're looking at your demands from that frame. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0083par0766	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0084par0767	Mr. President, we have time, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0083par0768	I'm sorry, I've got some friends who'll take your word for it, so I'll give it to you later. Mr. Chancer, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0085par0770	Madam Secretary, a friend of ours has asked me before, but I don't think there's been an answer. Do you have an arrangement for the rights of all members of the Department of Justice? We know that they have a lot of problems that have reached us, and they work under difficult conditions, these are our people. So, do you have any good news, any work, any words to say to these citizens? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0083par0772	Now that our new friends have arrived, Mr. Secretary, I'll make you a promise after them. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0086par0774	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a large number of execution officers who serve in these prisons, like prisoners in prisons, stand there as if they're facing the same punishment, where they're all suffering together. And when we got there, we found that even going from place to place, from room to room, was an incredibly procedure. These friends of ours have been through so much trouble, they're complaining that they can't get a cut of the wear and tear, and they've got a right to complain. We'd appreciate it if you could help us with some work on the part of these execution officers.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0083par0776	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0087par0778	I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question. I've heard a rumor recently that there will be cameras placed in the media's lawyer sightings in Sincan. Isn't that a violation of both rights for inmates and lawyers? That's what I want to say. Also, Aytuğ our friend has just told me that I would like to draw attention to Osmaniye Prison as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0088par0782	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0089par0784	Thank you. Mr. President, actually, I asked a question, why is the Lighthouse case still in drag? Now, it turns out they've extended the general election, extended it, and now they want the local elections to pass, one. Because Ergün Poyraz wrote the Children of Moses, Erdoğan and Abdullah Gül have been in prison for five years, his indictment has not been prepared. Well, isn't inviting the prosecutor who didn't file this indictment belong to the person in this Justice Minister's office? Why are these brothers-in-laws so protected by Zechariah Karaman's son and Recep Erdogan's son? There's a reason for that. The prosecutors removed from this mission have been referred to the court, but they still haven't filed any indictments so far. When are they going to file this indictment? So, they're definitely going to make the local elections? And there is no justice in cases of Ergenekon, and in cases of sledgehammer -- that we watch on television -- so there is no justice, so these courts that are being played in a theater need to be terminated. People feel guilty, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0090par0789	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0091par0791	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, political prisoners and prisoners in Osmaniye have twenty-five, thirty requests. Some of them require a change of regulations, some require a change of law, and I'm not talking about them; our House has already passed the law, and you've made the regulations. The prisoners there have nothing to do with them in the first place, the real problem is the practice, sir. There's a problem with three or four practices, inhumane practices. With your only instruction, when these practices change tomorrow morning, the people there will end this strike, which has become a death fast. I'm pretty sure that's what we talked about, that's what they told us, and they also gave similar information to the Human Rights Commission. It's really very easy to solve. I mean, what does shaving a beard have to do with the regulations, the walking down the hall, the walking down the wall, what does that have to do with the regulations? So their demands are extremely human. Whatever his crime is, we have to somehow handle the human drama out there.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0090par0793	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Öpün, come again.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0092par0795	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Mr. Mustafa Balbay, our Izmir MP, you know, is suffering in the persecution hall. In addition to his ordeal, he has been in solitary confinement for a year. Last week's application has not been answered positively, meaning it has to do with taking one person with it or moving into a two-story area. I'd like the Minister of Justice's opinion on this matter.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0090par0797	Thank you. Mr. Ayday...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0093par0799	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, are you planning on improving the judge and the prosecutor's salary because there seems to be a public perception that there's going to be a raise in salaries? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0090par0801	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0094par0802	Mr. Secretary, a story has recently been published in a national newspaper. The Supreme Court said that records of political parties being held on accession to political parties were available not only to those involved, but to everyone. Participating in these political parties is also personal and private data. So this press report is true? If that's true, then what is your understanding of the ministry?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0090par0803	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0805	Thank you, Mr. President. The question asked by Mr. Şandir is the same as part of the question asked by Mr. Ögüt: do you consider an arrangement for the rights of self-esteem regarding the security officers and other judicial workers? We have a study regarding the guards of the execution: we have referred them to the Prime Minister, they have been interviewed by the Council of Ministers, and by the way, they are about to come to Parliament. We have an external security bill. It's a bill that allows foreign security to be taken from the gendarmes in prisons and carried out by death guards. Of course, with this bill, there are provisions that apply to the nature and status of the execution guard. Hopefully, in that bill, the death guard will meet their expectations. Other than that, Mr. Öğüm. He has a question about Mr. Balbay. This prison is asking for a decision made by the Watch Board. So we asked the relevant agency for the basis of this decision. But I'll make a correction: it's not as if the request to have a person present has been rejected. Mr. Balbay, from the past, if he wanted to, he could have been given additional people, or he could have gone somewhere else, but he's been voiced more than this chair before, and I'm not going back in there. His request for a transfer to a two-story place was not appropriate. The Prison Observation Board made a decision. In this regard, we, the Ministry, consider whether this application is appropriate and if it is incompatible with the legislation. I will answer to you again after our decision, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Ağbaba, the lawyer has mentioned an application to place a camera in Sincan. I'll look into it and get back to you. I don't know anything about apps right now. One of our deputies who pointed out Osmaniye Prison is Mr. Agbaba, like Mr. Thrower again. After a study of both our Parliamentary Human Rights Commission and our political parties in this prison -- our prison controllers were already working there before they left -- not by the legislation, but by the problems you're talking about, we've had a number of measures. I hope with those precautions the practices you mentioned are over, and if they haven't, please share them with us again.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0096par0810	It's going on, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0811	My information is different, but I'll make sure. At this point, no one can present a number of applications based on their own assessment. The practice, the measures to be taken there, are determined by law, by regulations, and we do not allow infractions.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0096par0812	Please...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0813	Mr. Young, why hasn't the indictment against Ergün Poyraz (Ergun) been prepared again? The prosecutor who led this investigation...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0097par0815	He's been in there for five years! Five years!
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0816	I don't know if it opened...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0097par0817	How could you not know? Aren't you the Minister?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0818	...if there is such a thing, you file a complaint, you get what's necessary. The Lighthouse investigation is ongoing, and I'm hoping that this process will be over shortly.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0097par0820	When will the lighthouse indictment be filed?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0821	Ergenekon and Sledgehammer investigations are one of the many-spoken issues, these investigations -- they're in the process of prosecution right now -- and I hope they get to the point where they're going to end shortly. Mr. Ayday, do you intend to make an adjustment to the legal and prosecutor's salaries? Mr. Ayday, thoughts about these matters are not very revealing, and if such a thing should happen, it will be done, it will not be spoken, let me put it that way. I'll tell you this in general, in particular, not for the prosecutor's office, but for the most part, to improve the position of the judicial workers, each minister makes an effort to improve the position of his own ministry, which we have done in the past, which we continue to do today, but which we get results from, which we don't get from, which we don't get from, the process will show it.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0098par0825	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0826	Mr. Kokturk, the fact that the records held in the Supreme Court could be known as political party membership, which violates the protection of personal data, and I've seen it in the press, and I haven't been able to guarantee it, and if that's true, I personally don't find it very accurate.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0099par0827	We've made a motion, Minister.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0828	Okay. In this regard, the Supreme Court, as you know, is an autonomous institution within its own structure, no hierarchical connection, no connection to our Ministry, but in this framework, we will examine it and give you a written answer.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0100par0830	As head of HSYK, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0095par0831	The head of the HSYK has no opportunity to interfere with the Supreme Court and the State, Mr. Kokturk. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0101par0833	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0102par0834	Mr. President, I have a minute, may I ask you a question?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0101par0835	Yes, you have one minute, and if you ask half a minute, we can get half a minute's response, Mr. Sakek. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0102par0837	Mr. President, thank you very much. Minister, last Friday we visited Sincan prisons with a group of our fellow lawmakers. We had friends who were arrested and convicted, female friends. I've learned that some of the money their families invested had a complaint that money was cut for electricity and goods. Second of all, when they were in the vents, I mean, when they were out there, they had this serious reaction that the troops had come in and everything was being searched out of them, up to the women's personal effects. I'd appreciate it if you'd take care of that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0103par0841	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Minister, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0104par0843	If you'll just make a little promise...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0103par0844	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0104par0845	I'll look into the other issue, but electricity money... no charge is required for the common use of electricity used in prisons, but the remaining prisoner is a private electrical device used by prisoners, television, radio, or some of the materials that he uses, the energy he consumes is collected from those who stay there. Let's review these regarding the estate and get back to you with your other claim, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0103par0847	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. On the subject of violence and the attack on the State of Emergency with the State of Human Rights. RETURN FOR CHANGE IN BLOOD The statement was removed from the text in the districts of which there were no court courts in the first verse of Article 8 of the Law on Criminal Records No. 25/5/2005. In accordance with Article 81, I will promise one member, the Commission, the government ten minutes; five minutes each on behalf of two members. Mr. Ali İhsan Kokturk is a member of the Zonguldak MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 1. Here you go, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0105par0858	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 1st Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Violence and Disorganisation of Sports Act. I salute the High Council. First of all, I sincerely congratulate all of our fellow lawyers on April 5th, the Day of Lawyers, who, in spite of all the challenges and pressures, are one of the three fundamentals of the independent judiciary, which is essential to the rule of law. And yesterday, at a elementary school in Karaman district of Zonguldak, Zonguldak, I wish for immediate healing for 44 elementary school students who were poisoned by gas from the furnace. Dear lawmakers, the first article of the proposal contains an arrangement to change the first joke of Article 8 of the Criminal Record Act. According to Article 8 of the Criminal Records Act, the criminal records are provided by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of the Republic in the districts of which there are no main courts, the embassies and consulates abroad, and the General Directorate of Justice and Statistics in the central criminal record. The first amendment of this proposal is the basis for the release of the declaration from the Law text in the districts without the Asliye legal courts, and for the overall release of criminal records in the local criminal records, as well as of the republic's chief prosecutors. The right to file a criminal record for subsidiaries, such as preventing long queues from forming in courthouses, providing a criminal record by different institutions, and facilitating the work of those involved, has been reduced from an exceptional practice. Dear lawmakers, however, the criminal record documents are from personal documents. Article 11 of the Criminal Records Act clearly states that the criminal record and archive information are confidential, that it cannot be explained by the authorities, that it cannot be used except for the purpose of giving it to individuals and institutions. Again, according to Article 13 of the Criminal Record Act, a criminal record and archive record under investigation can be questioned directly by the court, judge, military judge, military attorney general's office and military prosecutor's office, but only by the approval of the Minister of Justice and other public institutions and institutions. In addition, according to the third joke of our Constitution's 20th article, entitled the privacy and protection of private life, everyone has the right to ask for protection of personal data related to him. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these regulations are domestic law regulations that show the sensitivity of the issue, internal law laws. In view of universal law, the protection of personal data is directly related to the principles of democracy, human rights and law. In this sense, within the framework of negotiations with the European Union, it is clear that there is an area in which the protection of personal data in terms of fundamental rights and judiciary, internal affairs, justice and freedom and information society and the media should be maintained; progress reports; accession partnership documentation, end-of-scan reports; in the integration integration integration integration integration programme; and in the list of law studies drafted by the European Union's General Secretary-General. It is also known that the European Union provides effective protection, especially for the protection of personal data and decisions published by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. In fact, according to these recommendations, the Law Bill on Protection of Personal Data prepared by the Ministry of Justice was referred to the Justice Commission on 02/05/08, among the proposals and bills that should be legalized. Dear lawmakers, in view of both our legal, constitutional legislation and universal legal principles and the acquisitor of the European Union, it is evident that the protection of personal data, including criminal record information, is a very sensitive issue, containing secrecy. Therefore, it is not consistent with the nature of the criminal record, including the release of a special confidential criminal record, and the recognition of it to other authorities other than state prosecutors of the Republic and Criminal Records and Statistical Directorate. It is inevitable that increasing the number of institutions and units that will provide criminal records will make it difficult to maintain personal data, make it substantially unsecured. Precious lawmakers, in this sense, need to strengthen and support the structure of the savings they've acquired over the years in the preparation, evaluation and transfer of criminal records and archive records of both the Department of Justice and the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and the state's Attorney's Office of the Republic. The development of a legal, constitutional and non-national legal process is not acceptable, as a technical and staff, rather than strengthening the state prosecutors, who have a certain savings and experience in both infrastructure and personnel, as a result of their technical and personnel, as well as the general giving of this authority to an unsustainable executive office and subsidiary authority. Dear lawmakers, in conclusion, the protection of personal data is essential to the safety of persons and, therefore, the legal state. For all these reasons, we are in favor of the exact protection of the first joke of Article 8 of the Criminal Record Law. The quality of the criminal record and the principle of protecting personal data, I ask that the first article of the proposal be removed from the text of the law, and I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0106par0870	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. The second speaker on behalf of the group is Mr. Hasip Kaplan, our Şırnak MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0107par0873	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the offer of Criminal Records Act 215. I salute you all. Of course, when we think of this record as a criminal record, we always think of tagging, when it's called tagging, September 12th, when it's called September 12th, we have people who are wrongly convicted of unlawful prosecution. I wish it had stayed with that, and believe me, the children of our people, who are being tried in these extraordinary trials that are not just, not even their children, their grandchildren, are still not being taken into military schools, police academys, hahristrians, and it's interesting that they are still not being taken under regulations -- the regulations of September 12th -- which are still in effect -- despite the removal of Articles 141, 142 and 163th of the Turkish Penal Code. Now, you have to read it that way. Yes, the Constitutional Court has a mistrial, and it's being arranged accordingly. I'd like to ask the minister a real question here: why do you want a criminal record from everyone who gets a job, gets a driver's license, gets a passport, I don't know where he's going? I mean, why would the government want a criminal record? Mr. Secretary, why does the government want a criminal record from a citizen? He's going to file a petition to the prosecutor's office, I don't know how much money he's going to pay, and I don't have a record to go to the D.A.'s office. He's going to get a certificate. Why are you forcing the citizen to do this?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0108par0876	As of yesterday, he got up.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0107par0877	For good, not at the moment... Look, these records, they're already in the courthouse after the e-government project, there's security, there's police, there's general staff, there's population operations, there's district managers, there's conservatorships, there's stations, there's everywhere. For him, no criminal record is required. Do you have a criminal record or not? His statement is sufficient. I don't have a record, you prove otherwise. So he's been convicted of 141, 142, 163, the law has been lifted, but looks like he's got a criminal record. You need to make a serious statement, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0109par0881	The declaration has been in effect for two days, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0107par0882	From now on, I'm calling from here to the city, and Mr. Secretary has explained that after two days you don't have to give a criminal record anywhere, as of right now, I have a criminal record, I don't have one. You don't have to give a document. I speak to all my citizens, and the Minister will now explain because this has been removed. What if this happened in a law state, guys? It's a sense of potential guilt for a citizen; it's one. Second of all, the clocks are down here, and I'm not saying anything to her, but now, the criminal record's being erased, but it's being recorded in memory, like computers, like cell phones. There's a recyclable register, which means the police have a record of 40 years ago. How are you going to convince us to erase this? How are you going to convince the public that the intelligence of the General Staff, the intelligence of JITEM, the intelligence of the gendarmes, the intelligence of the police, and the misjudgment of these intelligences, the misdeeds, the misfirmations, the people who are not on the criminal record? It's our job to do it, we have to do it, we have to take it away. So...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0110par0884	No government without memory.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0107par0885	Sir?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0110par0886	No government without memory.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0107par0887	There's a state without memory, sometimes the mind comes later, but there's an equality in law, there's a freedom, there's a justice. Now, if I really see this from here, this receipt, this record... anyone who thinks that they're the other one, that they can be right-wing, that they can be left-wing, that they can be Islamist, that they can be marked because they say that they're Kurdt. There's a difference between them, and there's a thought, and a poem... there's a record of Mr. Prime Minister reading a poem from 312. When you delete this, the criminal record of everyone who speaks, reads, writes, draws, and writes has been lifted from the Anti-Terror Law. Say: The European Union's law of harmony, Constitution 90, and my bureaucrats' records have been lifted here, so these have been lifted, the law has changed, the Constitution has changed. There's a technicality or two about it. So there are no courthouses in the counties. So Kulukonak is a trustee, who's been in the county for 15 years, has no court. Without a courthouse, there's no foundation, there's no judge, there's no prosecutor. Where's the courthouse? It's up to Cizre. E, there's a fundamental control in Cizre. I mean, what do you mean, it's not the original place? If there's a trial without the original, for God's sake, show me one. Where there's no actual trial, there's no trial. There's a peace, there's a foundation, there's high courts, there's severe punishments, and there's special jurisdictions above that. Well, when I get there, Mr. Secretary, it's Lawyer's Day, and I'm in pain, and I was a criminal lawyer in martial law in the coup d'état of September 12th. Not one lawyer was brought in on September 12th for his duty, but now 40 lawyers have been relieved of duty, arrested, and a special official is being tried in court. If it is a crime to go to Imralı, if it is a crime to be an attorney for Abdullah Ocalan, do not go. Say, "Don't go. Don't be a lawyer." Say, "You can't be a lawyer in these individuals or in these crimes." Let's see what you can say. If it isn't, if the meeting there is an instruction, I'll also say, "Be on your conscience." The D.O.J.'s office is there at the time of the meeting, so let him in. If it's a crime, he's writing a report in the interview. Let him go, bring in the Joint Chiefs. Since the late Ecevit, the Joint Chiefs of Staff has been managing this. All the Joint Chiefs have records, so bring them in. Bring in Hakan Fidan. Well, you can't, but why can't you afford lawyers? 40 lawyers have been arrested without the permission of the Justice Department, private court. Now, can you say that guns are equal? Can you tell me who in this country can claim that the special authority prosecutor and the lawyer who served as lawyers at Imralı are equal? Can anyone tell me that? You've only been to the island once in your life. Once in your life, after I got the power of attorney, there were people who went and met with them, and I visited them all last week. It's a fraud, a persecution, an injustice, an injustice, a practice that is more than just a coup artist, the universe. Prosecutors such as these, special authority courts, secret witness, secret investigation, secret evidence... let alone these feet, this foot is not the right foot. Leave these feet. This juntaism, this coup, this fascism... Don't look at the judgment here. Is the Kenan Universe under arrest here in this trial? Is Şahinkaya under arrest for this trial? Show me the countries where the coupgers of the last 30 years have struck. In which country is the coup artist on trial without arrest, and in which country is the trial being enjoyed? People get killed, people get hanged, rightist gets hanged, leftist gets hanged, and coupgers don't get tried. Now, friends, on a day like this, I don't feel like celebrating Lawyer's Day. I've been a lawyer in this country for over 30 years. I did it in the martial law of September 12th; I didn't see this persecution; I did it in the DGMs; I didn't see this persecution, but I see it in private authorities. It's a shame to live in a country where the most defense attorneys in the world are under arrest. I'm the one who's been exposed to self-responsibility issues, unemployment issues, insecurity, assaults at the police station, on the other hand, the actual assaults in the executions, the custody, the dishonor, the exclusion, the insult, what part of the profession of the right to a sacred defense? That's no way to speak of a sacred defense, my friends. I saw it in Italy. That's how he'd get his identity out, the lawyer, the cop, the nation, to a basic position, and he'd say, "Here you go, Mr. Lawyer." When you show your lawyer ID here, they hit you in the eye in our country. Is such a defense sacred? What kind of justice is that? There's no justice like that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0111par0898	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. There's no demand for words on groups. In the name of his subjects, Ramadan Can, Kırıkkale...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0112par0902	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear lawyer, I hope that the offer made by Mr. Doğan Kabbat....I hope that it will be legalized. Here, in particular, our dear friend explained the purpose of this offer. The Constitutional Court's Law on Criminal Records, which entered into force in 2005, has been revoked in accordance with the concrete norms of the Law on the Criminal Records, as a result of its examination of its appeals. The Constitutional Court has delayed the annulment by a year and has given the lawmaker time not to have a loophole. That's what our friend has offered us. Opposition parties, on the other hand, had objections at the point that the criminal record summary was private, so only prosecutors gave him the criminal record, not the trustees. We don't agree with that. Because you have to make the service presentation easier. These documents are issued, including the consulates. I don't think there's anything wrong with the state's attorney's office handing over this document. Otherwise, if there's abuse, it's sanctioned. There is no need for hesitation because of this sanction. In those feelings, I also congratulate my colleagues on April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I hope the offer will be legalized, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0113par0907	Thank you, Mr. Can. Second speaker, Mr. Hakan Sergeantoglu, Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0114par0910	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation first. What I'd like to say about the change I've been promised is that the offer of a change is a wise offer to make our citizen's life easier. As my other friend has just mentioned, it is not possible to participate in objections to the opposition's objections, especially to the appeals of the trustees to issue a criminal record document. In the current arrangement, the subsidiaries are able to provide a criminal record at places where prosecutors are not present. Again, embassies and consulates abroad are in charge in this sense. Besides, it's impossible to think and suggest that when we think that the trustees are able to give us the population registration samples that we can accept as the most important personal data, they can't give us the records of their criminal record. On this occasion, I wish you the best of the law's offer, and I salute your high council again.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0115par0914	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0116par0917	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank BDP MP Hasip Kaplan for informing us of the events in which lawyers are in the special state of the court. By the way, I'd like to ask the Minister, Mr. Secretary, who is not originally a lawyer, but in recent years the economic situation of our colleagues has been truly pitiful. Every time I go to my hometown, Çorum, my lawyer friends want their problems to be expressed. That's what we've been talking about from time to time. For example, is there a work done by your Ministry in the petitions to the courts in the search for the lawyer's initial and in other ways to address the economic problems of lawyers? I'd appreciate it if you'd fill us in on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0117par0920	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0118par0922	Mr. President, I thank you. Our Minister of Justice just fired 391 temps... to question one. I asked the Minister of National Education, and I didn't get the answer. That's filling material. I asked a second question. I want to get his answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0119par0926	Can I have the question?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0118par0927	My second questions...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0120par0928	May we have the question again, Mr. Halaman?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0118par0929	Would it be all right if I sent you the second question, Minister?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0120par0930	Yeah, sure.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0118par0931	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0120par0932	Mr. Sakık, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0121par0933	Thank you very much. Minister, we've shared it with you before. Regarding these prisoners, if they are convicted in the district of Mush, they are given to Tripoli, or to Rize. They are given to İzmir, and most of the families are miserable and poor, they can't go. They're being attacked everywhere they go. In fact, there's a lot of pressure from the gendarmes when they leave, and the families come back without a meeting. I mean, when are we going to get rid of this victim? I mean, we now know that there's not going to be a social peace anyway, but at least in our provinces, you can build us decent prisons, the problems of these families... let's all go together in our own province, stay in our prisons. We've got 29 letters, we've got almost 29 prison things, type A, type B. That's the system. So if there's no social peace, at least we want a human prison, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0120par0935	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0122par0937	Minister, there's a request for my visits to the prison, a request, and I'd like to convey it to you. For example, university student Büşra Beste Öhead is writing a thesis on the thesis -- he needs a computer that has no Internet connection, only people who live in writing and in many prisons -- Mustafa Balbay, Soner Yalçın -- want computers for writing. I'm asking you to take a serious look at this request. And, Minister, I'd like to ask you a question about myself. I'd like to visit the children from Sincan Prison who were transferred from this Posant. On March 6th, March 12th, March 20th and March 28th, I asked for permission, but it was never allowed. May I know why? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0123par0940	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0124par0942	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: this is a study of the situation of our arrested MPs... and we'd appreciate it if this could shed some light on when the arrested MPs will be released. Plus, as the Ministry, we'd like to ask your opinion on any work on the hunger strikes that have been launched in prisons. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0125par0946	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0126par0948	Thank you, Mr. President. I just got a promise to celebrate. I'm congratulating the day and the day of every lawyer who's fighting for judicial independence.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0125par0950	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0127par0952	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Köse, they said that the financial situation of the lawyers is troubling, that you have a lawyer's initial or other work that will comfort them? I hereby celebrate the Day of Lawyers on April 5th. These problems cannot be solved by palliative measures; they need to be looked at in a general approach. In this regard, we conduct a study with the Bar Association in a certain understanding. The Bar Association drafted a law. They just finished that bill and sent it to the meeting. It's a bill designed with the contributions of the Bars. If this can be legalized within the year of life or within the year of 2012, there may be some comforting considerations in this framework. It's a paraffic, etc., and I don't go into specific issues, but in general, we're trying to increase the power of defense, to move the position of the attorney to a certain point with the prosecution, with the decision office, to bring what the principle of equality of weapons should be, as well as to bring them to comfort by economics. What are some of the measures that we're trying to assess under that law? Other than that, there is a concentration in our prisons, especially in our eastern, southeast provinces. This intensity, of course, is the cause of the complaint that interferes with our services. The prisoners, who remain in prison, are in trouble, and their relatives who come to visit can't use these rights enough, they can't participate enough in social activities in prisons, and they can't use the rights that legislation has given them. From this point of view, we don't transfer unless we have to, but there are a number of transfers to start in the nearest province possible when forced to. Many measures have been taken at this time. This problem will be resolved permanently after the construction of our newly built criminal execution institutions. We're renovating 196 institutions by 2017, closing 197 institutions, opening less, but these are institutions where more humane sentences can be executed and have a little bit more capacity. In a few years, this relief will be restored. We're trying to relieve them by moving them to as close as possible. Other than that, Mr. Agababa, the Internet connection can now be used only to a limited extent and limited to the website of the school where it is educated. There's only limited Internet access for students who are trained in prison. Other than that, there is no such opportunity by law, but it is for students. I wanted to visit the children in Sincan Prison... Mr. Aghababa, you know, anywhere in Turkey, your demands are immediately met without limiting your visit to prisons. However, there are international criteria for children, and there are limits that we apply ourselves because of our legislation. We also have to look at the psychological conditions of children under the age of 18, and we have to worry that these talks will be done in every environment as well as with adults, and that, at the age of 18, they will be subjected to different questions for children at the age of sixteen, they will have a negative effect on their psychology.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0128par0957	I'm sensitive to him, Mr. Secretary. I'm sensitive to him.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0127par0958	From that point of view, maybe with psychologists, with our social workers in prison, we can do this sort of thing. But let me put it this way: Our Parliamentary Human Rights Commission left the day before yesterday, there were representatives of all of our political parties, there were representatives of every political party. Those interviews were made there. Again, interested colleagues, our psychologists accompanied us. Under the circumstances, if you're so eager, we'll arrange these negotiations, Mr. Agha. Mr. Buldan, do you have any work with the arrested MPs? We have a number of legislations, we have prepared, and we have different proposals of our political parties, which are being merged, and we have different proposals, which are being discussed in accordance with the provisions of the third package, which are currently in session with the Parliament's Subcommittee Justice Subcommittee. I don't know what shape the subcommittee will take in the upper commission and the General Assembly. We'll be watching this together in the future. Are there any studies of hunger strikes in prisons? We have efforts to meet the prisoners' demands as much as possible, as long as the safety of our prisons is not compromised. I hope these strikes will be over soon. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0129par0963	Mr. Turkkan, you asked for a word, there's only a few seconds, but here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0130par0964	Mr. Secretary, why are you shutting down Simav Prison, our citizens calling from Simav? We can't pay that many checks. We entered these prisons, and we were accustomed to them, and they ask, "Why will you send us to the footman, and to Afyon?'
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0129par0965	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0131par0966	We're shutting down our unofficial prisons, building more modern, human-sustainable prisons. From that point of view, there's no other reason. In a speech from Mr. Kaplan, about his criminal record information...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0132par0968	Declare that you no longer want a criminal record, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0131par0969	I say: There is no longer a registered record. The document will not be requested; it was published in the Official Gazette on April 3rd. The person's statement will receive an application to declare it, not be asked to bring a criminal record. The statement has been made. The agency will question it itself, and then, not from the citizen, and if anyone makes a false statement, they will do the same. As of April 3rd, this regulation was published.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0133par0970	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0134par0971	All the people are looking for a human prison instead of a villa to live in comfort, and that's a bad thing.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0135par0972	We're doing it...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0133par0973	Congressmans, there are no motions on Article 1, and the negotiations have been completed. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article is accepted. Article 2-5352 of the 12th Amendment has been changed as follows. A) On the death of the concerned, B) From the time the Constitution's 76th Article and the terms of the record being archived in terms of convictions that led to a lack of rights in the laws outside the Turkish Penal Code; 1. Fifteen years have passed, with the decision to give back the prohibited rights. 2. Thirty years have passed without a search for a decision to be given back the prohibited rights, C) With five years passed since the date of the record's archived conditions in terms of other convictions, It's completely erased. There's no need to say anything on behalf of groups. On behalf of individuals, Isparta MP Recep Special.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0136par0987	Mr. President, very valuable lawmakers, a large gap is being filled by the Constitutional Court under the provision brought in with Article 2 of the bill we're negotiating. There is a possibility that recordings prior to 2005 will be deleted. It's sort of a fill-in. I'd like to take this occasion to celebrate the Day of Lawyers on April 5th. I wish you the best of the law, the best of luck, the best of respect.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0137par0991	Thank you. Congressman Bilal Flightr.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0138par0994	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, as ruling party MPs, we don't use our right to speak, our right to speak to each other until the end to move the work forward faster. Today and this week, we have demonstrated such a compromise with the opposition. So, without further ado, I'm celebrating the Day of Lawyers, of all my colleagues, of our lawyers. In accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to cancel, I salute you all with the blessing of today's amendment to the Criminal Records Act.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0137par0997	Thank you. Any other demands on the matter? No. Proposal for QA? No. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The frame of the Law Proposal for Changes in Criminal Records Law 215 is currently in session. Article 12 of Law 5352. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. Article 2-5352 12 of the Law. The first joke of the article has been changed in the following way. B) Starting with the completion of the execution of the sentence or security measure, the archive will be completely deleted if he does not commit a new crime within ten years, five years in prison or five years in prison if he is sentenced to more than five years in prison, or if he does not commit a new crime. Ali İhsan Kokturk Turgut Dibek Ömer Suha Aldan Veli Ağbaba Sinan Aygün Flood Köse Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0139par1012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0137par1013	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0140par1014	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0137par1015	Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0141par1016	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0137par1017	Reason, please. The Constitutional Court ruled January 20, 2011 and 2011/21 on the 12th Amendment. Article one of the First Amendment, 2 and 5 and 17 of the Constitution. It's been cancelled against its terms. The period stated in the Article text has been agreed on grounds of cancellation, and the principle of the development of one's material and spiritual existence and in order to reform the sentences. I submit the motion to your votes... for those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes... those who do not accept... Article 2 of the article. The last sentence of Article 2 of Article 3-5352 of the Law has been lifted from effect, the second joke has been changed as follows, and the following joke has been added to the article. In the history of the publication of this Law, the Article 76 of the Constitution and the sentence of Article 12 of Article 12 of Article 12 shall be carried out in terms of convictions in some specific laws, which have led to a lack of rights, although the terms or conditions are in the archive or are not yet in the archives. (3) In addition to those mentioned in the second joke, the records taken into the archive according to the first joke are deleted by the Criminal Register and Statistics General Directorate on the basis of this date, as the statute of limitations specified in Article 3682. There's no demand for word on the matter on behalf of groups. In the name of the individuals, Bulent Turan, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0142par1029	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself as to Article 3 of the law under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. This Parliament has recently made very serious regulations in the area of expanding freedoms, and individual-based laws have been more legalized. And I can make an example of this law as well. As you all know, an 80-year-old archive record has been reduced to thirty years, and only the court records provided by the courts to ensure more comfortable transportation for our citizens, archive records are being handed to us; this is an arrangement in favour of our citizens. On this occasion, I salute you with respect, hoping it will be a blessing.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0143par1034	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Mr. Ramazan Can, Kırıkkale MP.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0144par1036	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to ask the question, if there's no criminal record, if there's no record, if there's no archive records, what harm could they have? The answer to such a question is, you know, in our criminal law system, it's not possible to implement the establishments such as determining the degree of punishment, extradition of human rights, repetitive, repealing the verdict, delaying the prosecution. Therefore, these records must be kept. As our brother just said, the deadlines for keeping these archive records here have been reduced to minimal limits. Given that it can be brought down even further, I think it will be difficult for these establishments to apply. I salute you all again, saying good luck and good luck to you all, given the need for it.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0145par1040	Thank you. There's no request for an answer or a question on the matter, no motion. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. Article 4-31/3/2011, and Article 6222, which is part of the Interim Article 1 of the Law for Anti-violent Violence and Disorganisation in Sports, has been removed from the text for a year by clubs in the top football league and by other clubs or organisations. In the name of the groups on the matter, Mr. Turgut Dibek is a member of the People's Party of the Republic. Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0146par1048	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, I am celebrating my colleagues' Lawyer's Day before I begin my remarks. Our lawyers are also trying to do their jobs by facing many challenges in the consciousness of the sanctity of their right to defend. At least I wish them the best in their life and in their work, celebrating this day. Dear friends, with this law, we are now predicting a change in two different laws, one of which was the law that was just up to the first three articles, the amendments to the Law of Forensic Records, and one of which was the Law on Violence and Disruption in Sports. So we're predicting two separate laws within the same law proposal, and at the beginning of the law proposal, there was a little bit of a discussion about it. I think that this is the Code of Stricts, or the Law on Anti-Sport Violence, that comes more often, I think, from now on. Because there was a law that was made last term, which was actually made last semester, and I was also a member of the Justice Commission last semester, but at that time we were separated as members of the Justice Commission of the Republican People's Party, and we resigned from the Commission. Mr. President has limited our right of speech on the Commission. That amendment in the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals is similar to the implementation of the National Education Commission, which is not as violent as it is, but we have encountered a similar practice. So we, the Republican People's Party, were unable to express our thoughts there with our fellow commissioners. It was reduced to a five-minute period of conversation, where we were limited by time and a motion only at work. Then all Republican People's Party members resigned from the Commission, and that bill passed, you know? So it turns out that our absence is obvious. I mean, there's a law that's been made -- this law may have come from the Federation, I don't know, but -- he was killed when he called it a hit. So when we look at the entire law, there's this sort of illegal mentality, the bans have become a rule, the freedoms have become an exception. So I'm talking about the Law on Avoiding Violence in Sports. What's the deal? Let me cut to the chase. What we're talking about, what we're seeing, maybe our friends will think about it. Dear friends, you've given me a deadline, and as that law passes, you've told sports clubs that you're going to apply for electronic tickets. An electronic card will be given to the audience, the viewers who are going to the football games. Electronic tickets will be taken over those cards, and the matches will be entered with those cards. For this, the Super League team has been given a one-year term, and the other teams have been given three years. That's a one-year deadline, just like the time it took to fill that gap in the Constitutional Court's ruling, is up on April 14th. It's the same, it's just a coincidence. Despite that one year, no club, no Football Federation has that kind of preparation. ▪ We have wasted a year. So we couldn't build that kind of infrastructure. There's no way we can get an electronic ticket application. He has a meeting with groups. They've interviewed all groups, and they've talked to us because there's a substance that comes to us, and it's said that if the clubs don't apply to this electronic ticket application, they'll be fined 100,000 lira per game; other clubs, Bank Asia, people in Asia, 80 grand will be cut; there'll be chaos, and there'll be chaos. So that's what we're going to do. We're going to extend that one year to fix it. So what you've come up with with is that this is a three-year extension of the year period given to them to apply electronic tickets to the Super League football clubs, like in the other teams, dear friends. But is he working it out? I don't think he is, or rather, we don't think he is. So the electronic ticket, I looked -- in fact, of course, we're talking about something else, but we're also in the matter of sports -- where is it applied in the world? I looked around; I didn't see a place, dear friends. Why is he here? Why would he think of such a precaution, a lawmaker or, you know, those who set up this law? The hooligans, here, sir, let's identify the troublemakers. Well, that understanding... Dear friends, I've seen about 45 million people in the world, Germany, watching football games within a year. So 45 million citizens go, watch football games, watch games during the year. In England, it's about 39 million, 40 million. Spain has 35 million, Italy has over 25 million, and France has about 25 million citizens -- people, whatever -- going there to watch the football games well. None of them have such apps: electronic tickets, electronic cards, nothing like that. In Turkey, about 8 million -- I don't know -- I don't know -- if I'm not mistaken, that's what I'm told, right, 8 million -- our citizens are going to watch football games. We're creating such beautiful challenges for our citizens who are going to watch these games. Electronic card, electronic ticket; actually, it's a tag, nothing more. So we're making millions of citizens uncomfortable because we're going to identify a few hundred hooligans. The British don't have that problem. So they're inviting 40 million, 45 million of their own citizens to spend the weekend at a football game, a banquet, where they're going to put off their stress nicely. They don't have that problem. It's not in Germany, it's nowhere. In England, I looked, there are over 3,000 banned hooligans, and they can't get into the games, but 40 million people watch football games; such a card, such an electronic app doesn't exist. You know why I'm saying this? So if the solution isn't to divert... it's probably going to be this: if we're all here together, if Allah is healthy and we're here, we'll be back in three years. It's not three years, it's two years later because it's been over a year. Two years from now, this is the future, and we'll probably get rid of it. In fact, this should all be lifted, dear friends. I mean, we have to give up this electronic ticket app, not force people to do it. Look, you know what the law says? Now, they're going to give us an electronic card, with our name on the card, our photo, our TC ID information, all our private information. On that card, we're gonna buy tickets to the games, and we're gonna get our precious friends to read that card. Now you say -- a little bit connected to the other law -- it's like we're going to prison. So our lawyer friends know, or you know how our other friends are called on their way to visit a friend, someone close to the prison. There's only one remaining retinal scan left to get into these football games. Actually, I think they could put that in here. So we can scan your eyes and get our citizens into the football games, and that's all that's left of them, dear friends. So the bottom line is that we have brought you this change, the necessary change, as all groups, with a motion, and we support it as the Republican People's Party. But what we're saying is that this isn't a solution, this needs to be removed. Dear friends -- my friend Ihsan just asked a question from his place -- there's one thing, and that's something about tagging, and I have to bring it up, and I have a deadline. I asked the Minister of Justice a question on April 3rd - the other day. You know what this is about? There's a website opened by the Supreme Court Attorney's office, an interrogation site. It says here that the citizens, the political party, the Supreme Court -- it's going on -- gov. Mr. Secretary, I don't know anything about this. Do you have it or not? I've tried it. Now you're going on this website with your ID. Here's your ID number. If you're a member of any political party, that's where it comes out, dear friends. I mean, now that you're a member of the political party, you're a member of the press, which has been critical of several newspapers. Let's put it this way: a tenant-owner relationship. The owner will be able to check whether his tenant is a member of the political party -- because there is a copy of the birth certificate or information in the lease. So let's think about the bidders, the contractors, the city or the public institution who wants to, here's the contractor, which political party these people belong to, let's check out their identity information, shall we, my friends? They'll say. So other than that, let me see which political party he belongs to, for the boss, for his employee, or for the employee who came to work for him, and then I'll take a look at this person. He might. Dear friends, it's about the authorities at the university, the students... so, you know, the current SEC members, the deans, the rectors, they're making terrible decisions, the kids are being suspended from colleges. They can also control university students as to which political party? That's definitely not gonna happen, it's a tag. I don't know what purpose they've come up with, but if there's an app like this, it's got to be encrypted, precious friends, not just with TC ID information, but with a personal password, which can only be so healthy. I'd like to present this to Mr. Secretary for review. Dear friends, we support this clause, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0147par1067	Mr. Dibek, thank you. There are no further demands on the names of the groups. On behalf of the individuals, Mehmet Altay, Butler.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0148par1071	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 4 of the Law Proposal 215. I salute you and our beloved nation. And I, a friend of yours who's been a lawyer for years, celebrate the Lawyer's Day of all of our lawyers who worked in this profession. On this fourth article, our friend has just made a general statement. In particular, the Law on Anti-violence and Disorganisation in Sports 6222 had already been adopted and published in the Official Gazette, but it is an offer of an extension due to the lack of Federation preparation of the deadlines involved in the arrangement and the fact that the clubs were not prepared enough. We think it'll prevent any further damage to our clubs. I wish this bill to be a blessing. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0149par1077	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Ercoshkun, Bolu.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0150par1080	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a personal commitment to this provision of the law. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. As I begin, I congratulate all our lawyers, especially members of the Bolu Bar, for April 5th Lawyer's Day. Dear lawmakers, with this arrangement, it will be possible to extend the most recent transition to electronic ticketing with the previous regulation to April 14, 2012, April 2014, to make changes that our clubs are obliged to make. I'd like to thank all the friends who have worked so hard to draft this bill on this occasion. I also want to thank the opposition party MPs for offering such a beautiful work environment, and I want to continue. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0151par1087	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. No more words on matter. Two of our friends are in the system for the QA. Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0152par1091	Mr. Secretary, when I asked you about the time that the prison that I gave you before, which was located at Izmit headquarters, which was in the city, which was very old, corrupting the psychology of the people and the students who were just nearby, you told me that this year's investment plan had a new prison in it, and you said that it would move as soon as it was finished. They say there is no such investment in my answer to the same question as the Ministry of Justice and the Governor's office. I have the answer to both the answers you gave me, and I have the answer to the investment of the mayoral and justice department bureaucrats. From here on out, I'd like to know why you're not answering the questions I'm asking correctly, and I'd appreciate it if you'd be more specific.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0151par1092	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0153par1094	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Commissioner the question. First of all, this is... a new law that just came out on 31/3/2011. According to Article 35 of the Civil Code, commissions cannot make a proposal of the law, which is very clear. How can you add such a substance without such an offer? As a matter of fact, the Speaker warned you. Wouldn't it be better if you offered a law to a friend at the time, instead of violating the Civil Code like this? It's very clear, so if the day after tomorrow were to enter this Constitution, you would make a law against the Civil Code, and unfortunately, all commissions would do it. And then you brought it in, and there's no excuse for the substance. So if this were an offer, it would be motive, it would be obvious why it was brought in, so there won't be a problem with its application, but you brought it, you're supplying yourself with matter. I mean, doesn't the Civil Code mean anything to you? Then let us remove the Civil Law, and let the commissions make the law as they please. That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0154par1099	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0155par1101	Now, you have stated that there are two separate information about the prison at Izmit headquarters, please share it with us. We're definitely not going to keep the one in that center by building a prison in a new location. But if you share the information from other institutions with us, we'll take care of it.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0154par1102	Here you go, Mr. Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0156par1103	Thank you, Mr. President. I also thank Mr. Kamer because they have revealed something. The Justice Commission has taken the necessary care to implement the concrete event in front of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0157par1106	He didn't show it.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0156par1107	There's a choice here. In Article 35 of the Civil Code, the ban on non-transmitted jobs is not in our concrete case because there is a law proposal in both the Law, the Law of the Criminal Record Law, that is the subject of the proposal and the Law of Violence in Sports. Then our three parties -- who are members of the Peace and Democracy Party -- were not in the Commission because of their illness -- have a substance violation based on the basis of reconciliation. If there is an offer that carries the conditions for the meeting, if the parties have come together to negotiate, then the superiority of the will for a spinal settlement, which is the basic fabric of parliamentary law, is essential. The will for reconciliation has been exalted, and parliamentary regulations have already been established on the basis of consensus, despite the rulings. These are the concrete internal regulations, which are temporarily exhausted when it is implemented, in the words of the renowned Parliamentary Legislator Eugène Pierre. Within the scope of the commission's agenda, it has established a process in accordance with the global data and Article 35 of Parliament law. It's a food supply.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0158par1112	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0159par1113	I'm not satisfied.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0158par1114	Mr. Agha's in the system, please come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0160par1115	Minister, the population is the most important city in Malatya, Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, with its social and economic structure. The AKP government has also deceived Malatya (Matatya) for judicial restructuring. Earlier, Malatya was announced that there would be a restitution court, but the name of Malatya was not listed among the district court courts in 2013 during a visit you made in the past few months. Malatiah was bound to the judgment area of Adana, and Malatiah's dreams were destroyed once again. Malatya is scheduled to be set up in the district forum court after 2015. I do not accept the victimization of Malatians as a Malatian MP. Are you planning on doing a study on this? Also, since the third special court in the region is in Malatya, I think Malatya has a lot of merit in the litigation court. We expect you to do what needs to be done. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0161par1118	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Young, you're back in the system.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0162par1120	Mr. President, in fact, the President of the Commission is going to give us such poetic speeches. First, let him observe the clear, clear, command of the Civil Code. No, sir, do groups agree? If the groups agree, will they remove the Civil Law, or put it on the shelf? That's not gonna happen. In other words, the Civil Code is open, and Article 35 is very clear. The Commissions cannot offer the law. That's the law's offer. For him, it's obvious. So there's no need to go anywhere with comments like that, leaving open regulations aside. Well, since there were other offers on that subject, why don't you put them together? I mean, that's the whole point. Bring us a legal text. That's a lot to do, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0161par1121	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0163par1123	Mr. Secretary, I'm going to talk to you about the Alexei Courthouse again. It's one of the most tax-paying provinces in Turkey, but it's not getting paid back. Even though it's been recently built for many years, it's not enough. Despite the common opinion of the public on this issue, no exceptions in political parties, do you consider a new investment, even though it is the common opinion of the people of Kopeeli? Not on this year's investment plan. I also don't understand why you've been so neglectful of the husband.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0161par1124	Thank you. Mr. Secretary first, then Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0164par1126	First the Commission, then the government, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0165par1127	The first question was, why didn't you build Mr. Ağbabat's court when Malatya was promised it? I don't know who promised Malatya the accounting court, but it was first thought of in 9 provinces, and then the law enforcement courts went up to 15. In the process, there will be more accounting courts, and during the establishment, the jobs potential of the provinces, the geographical structure they are in, the potential to meet the need in the region may be considered in the new provinces, and the resumption courts may be considered in the next period, but at this time there will be a law court in Malatya. I don't want to say anything like that, but I don't want to deceive you. Second: Do you have any idea of a new court of law regarding the Supreme Court? • Precious MPs, starting with the most troubled areas in court palaces. I hope we'll meet the needs of all the provinces of Turkey, but there's an ehem-migration ranking. If not, of course, the court palace will be built -- one of Turkey's major provinces -- if not for the need. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0166par1130	Mr. Commission...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0167par1131	My dear President, when parliamentary law is being systemized, textist approaches cannot be given the upper hand. Indeed, there is a conclusion that has been removed from the nature of the commissions. Again, in global parliamentary law, commissions are miniature models of the general council.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0168par1132	Does that violate the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0167par1133	The law, which is subject to the General Assembly, applies on commissions, if there are conditions. If there are concrete conditions related to the matter violation in Article 87 of our Civil Code, the commission can establish the function of substance violations, not proposals. It's a really concrete case, because criminal record legislation is an area of criminal law, criminal law, form and material law. The issue of regulation, the subject of substance abuse, the amendment of the Law on Violence in Sports, is a special law that applies to special criminal provisions, and there is a tie on the issue. The Commission is capable of defending its own thesis in the rule of law, not in the textist approach, but in the legal approach; the process is correct.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0168par1134	Mr. President, the title of the law is wrong. I mean, they make additions, but inside, it's like...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0169par1135	Time's up, Mr. Young. I apologize. Mr. Öğül, there is a question, but we're out of time. Now, since there's no motion on the matter, the conversation is complete. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. MADDE 5- This goes into effect in the history of law enforcement. No one wants a word on the matter on behalf of groups. In the name of the individuals, Ismail Kashdemir, Çanakkale MP.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0170par1143	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the Fifth Amendment to the Criminal Record Act. I hereby salute our General Assembly. The speakers before me have spoken about this law. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked so hard to prepare this bill. I wish this law to be a blessing. Before I put an end to my words, I am celebrating the Day of Lawyers, of all our lawyers, of our fellow lawyers. I salute our General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0171par1149	Thank you, Mr. Kashdemir. On behalf of Mr. Ali Longırmak, Aydın MP. Mr. Longhorn, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0172par1153	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, thank you very much. Of course, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is going through extraordinary situations in terms of lawmaking techniques, and we suffer from these extraordinary situations, and our people suffer from them. What is this extraordinary situation? There was no law, no law, no law, no law in the days of Terakki, and now there's the law, the law, the law, the law. Now, I'd like to ask the Minister: Mr. Minister, this law in the presence of this consul, with some errors in the application revealed, hopefully six months later, he won't come back here to correct it again or five months later, not three months later. Where do I want to go from here, precious MPs? If the will of the House really is to be above everything, as you say, it must be the will of the entire House. If the will of a majority in parliament is taken into consideration, then you must have given up your remarks. What do I mean by this place? When we were making the law here in 6222, we took a stand in that electronic ticket and Sports Violence Act, and we said, "This is coming out too early, it's not discussed, it's not debated, it's not debated. But it's been imposed, in a wave of excitement like this, the Law passed through here. Now, in the electronic ticket application, do you realize that you and Law 6222 have planted figs in Turkish sports? So today, until we reach other areas other than the fraud investigation, there is still more irresponsibility, and the government continues to slaughter Turkish sports. The Prime Minister has an explanation: let's not go to Europe for five years, as in England. With false illustrations, false attitudes continue to plant figs in the Turkish sport's furnace. An example of England is an example that does not apply to Turkey. There, the fans were punished after the Heysel disaster. But here, in a different position, the event has developed. Beyond that, Mr. Prime Minister and the AKP Group have a logic, so I'll do it, and no one else matters. Here you have rejected the proposal from the National Movement Party regarding the opening of the middle of the Imam-Hamp High Schools, as well as that the Prophet's life and the Qur'an were an elective class. After that, you took it, we do it, you took a motion here based on your own majority of logic. Dear friends, making a law in that sense does not help the country. In maximum partnerships, you need to look for maximum consensual, maximum majority, maximum persuasion. However, in the case of Muhammad the Crusher's return -- only in the example of Menderes the AKP -- the late Prime Minister's use of politics, the speech at the mosque in front of them, Friday's exits, has unfortunately gone towards abuse. These are very remarkable subjects. These will not benefit the country, but will lead the country to disaster, as they go from sport to monogamousness in a number of areas, leading to exclusion of the nation's common values, going from sport to religion. So, when we're looking for the will of Congress, if we make the right law, three months, five months later... look, this is the second amendment we've made about 6222 -- it hasn't been a year since the law came out. Well, don't you realize how much you've put Parliament's costs to do with these misdeeds, while you've calculated the cost of Parliament, the cost of working, and you've criticised the parliament for its non-oppression? So I looked at the proposal, and it was offered ten to fifteen days ago, and it was immediately put on the agenda! Dear lawmakers, while waiting in line for other lawmakers' proposals, when they were not discussed, when they were thrown into dusty shelves, a new law was passed immediately today, within ten or fifteen days, without even being investigated for the degree of exchanges of opinions in institutions. I therefore feel that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should abandon this lawmaking technique. I also feel that our MPs, as independent lawmakers, should be represented by their own free will. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0173par1167	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. The question-answer on Article 5... Mr. Bul said you'd like to come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0174par1170	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: Now, the prisoners and prisoners who are on this hunger strike are being given disciplinary sentences. A prisoner who is on hunger strike is acting on the body of a convict, so there is no action against the administration, yet prisoners and prisoners can be sentenced to disciplinary action. For example, there's an application for female prisoners in type D of Diyarbakır, and we have an MP in it, Mr. Selma River. Last week, during the visit of our friends, he was sentenced to disciplinary action due to his hunger strike. I'd like your opinion on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0175par1174	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0176par1176	Thank you, Mr. President. In the question of Mr. Buldan, there is a criterion that criticises disciplinary action against those who participate in the hunger strike. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is a budget based on legislation. These sentences, disciplinary sentences, are subject to the supervision of the execution judges, and if there's an objection, there's an objection, if there's a savings, if there's a savings of the prison administration, it's something that can be lifted by the verdicts of the execution judge. But beyond that, if there's something the execution judge can't do, there's not much the prison administration can do here, there's not much the execution judge can do here, it's all about legislation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0177par1180	It can be changed, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0178par1181	Thank you. Congressmans, negotiations on the matter are complete. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 5 is accepted. MADDE 6-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on the matter on behalf of groups. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0179par1190	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you. A missing, wrong-doing law has come back from the courthouse, we're correcting it, we're doing our duty. Well, that's the way it is. Don't let what Mr. Ali Longırmak says be difficult for you, we're really admitting our own lack, we're expressing it. And it's not appropriate for a law-making technique to attach unrelated laws to each other at the last moment, which is like making a law in a doorway, which is not true. Laws and decisions, groups, need to be very careful about this; it also reveals a mistake at the point of the quality of the law. As the National Movement Party Group, we support this law, we vote positive. One less, one less. It is our duty to contribute to any issue that makes our citizen's life easier, and we will contribute. However, I would like to take this opportunity to present a few of the demands of society, of our nation, to the Minister, who will probably, in the end, give him some good news. First of all, Mr. Secretary, you've expressed the third package of judgment to both the press and the public, and you've brought it to the House, but somewhere, I think it's the tiger. Why? This has to be answered. For what it's worth, there was a very important arrangement in that third package of judgments about the Executive-Islamic Law, and as the National Party of Action, we had a law proposal, which was combined. What was that? The impound of household property. We had an additional request, that the production tools could not be seized. I mean, don't let him impound his workshop so people can earn their bread. Well, this is being held. However, we have a large number of citizens waiting for this law. You need to come up with an urgent answer, because our citizen expects it. Second thing: here last year, together, again, with a warning from me or some of our friends in the Tapu-Kadastro Law. What was that? The expense of a mistrial hearing was not required by a citizen who lost the case. The man is losing his field... because the defect is not in himself, but they gave him the deed, and then he bought the deed, and then he went to the forest administration or the treasure. Sir, I'm going to the Supreme Court, I'm going to appeal. He says, "They don't listen to the executive office, they put it on the spot, they immediately make a judgment, like an execution or a property statement; the citizen is miserable." At this point, those people who won our stone bread in Erdemli district of Mersin are already facing a loss, followed by a significant amount of execution, after the cancellation of their greenhouses or fields, vineyards, garden deeds. We made a law on that. Mr. Secretary, don't call the judge... our job. Who do we report the verdict to? Who will be involved in the problems of judgment, the problems of judgment? Now I'm telling you from here. Here I have a court order, which is against the Law here, which means that they have decided to charge 594 TL of the decision from the defendant. It'll be fixed somewhere, but until it's fixed, the frog's eye will crack. And I would like to bring this kind of error to the attention of the Minister, to the request of our citizens, by bringing it up again on this occasion. Hopefully, there will be an explanation for themselves. I wish you all the best in the law.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0180par1199	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On behalf of Mr. Fatosh Gürkan, Adana MP.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0181par1202	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the law in question. I salute your high council and our beloved nation who follow us. Today is April 5th, Lawyer's Day, the essential element of our judicial system, celebrating the day of our lawyers. I wish all of our lawyers, who have sacrificed their defense services for the sake of justice, well done in their professional lives. A few days ago, a lawyer named Kenan Alexander was attacked, wounded, and I say to him, "Get well soon." On this occasion, I would like to extend my condolences to all our friends who have died as a result of the attack, to God's mercy, to the wounded, and to those who were attacked. On the law, of course, our friends explained in detail. This law will make our nation's access to service even easier: one. The second will eliminate injustice over the deletion of the criminal record. I would like to thank all our friends, Mr. Secretary, who has worked with the belief that the law will facilitate the nation's axisal service in accordance with the EC PARTY governments. I wish the law to be good for our country and our nation, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0182par1208	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Negotiations on Article 6 are also completed. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who do not accept... the 6th article is accepted. Congressmans, before the entire proposal is voted, the Commissioner has a request for a reduction.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0183par1211	We demand that the title of the proposal be corrected as the Law's Offer for Changes in the Law to Avoid Violence and Disruption in Sports with the Law.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit01spe0182par1212	Thank you. I submit the whole law to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the offer is accepted and law-abiding, and good luck. Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0182par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 91st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will begin the talks of the Law Bill and the Justice Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place, under the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security Protection Centres and Protection Boards Act. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 207 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0184par0010	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the bill on probationary liberalisation in 207 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you. Really, our prisons are a disaster, our execution system is a disaster. There's a shortage in the world's 16th-largest economy, with an increase of 8.5% this year, with four people in a bed, three in a bed in some places. You have to get over it. How do we get through it? If the punishment is about reforming criminals, bringing them to society, we have to build a system worthy of human dignity. It can be applied in a different way -- for those who remain behind for a certain period of time -- one year -- or in different positions depending on the situation -- for the elderly, for the mothers with children, for the patients -- and they can be increased in two years, for three years, for five years. We'll support what we think is reasonable if the government has a motion on this matter. We know there are thousands of people waiting for controlled freedom. You're probably getting calls, letters coming in. Believe me, three hours ago, there were prisoners from prison who called me on the phone: "What happened to the Tested Freedom Act, is it discussed today?" Yes, it is today. So, we're having the first conversation, and we're saying, of course, that if -- maybe more than 10,000 of them -- are going to bring a relative relief in prisons, and this system is going to give us a new job, a re-community, a new family, a chance to start a life, a new self-evaluation -- there are examples of the world to support that. Our party, as in this sort of thing, in the previous law, we don't have a problem with constructive opposition, but rather, we contribute. We'll contribute to that, of course. How will the system be implemented? Actually, one thing's clear when you look at the law. So there are different modes in this system, in one year of supervised freedom, from the model of house arrest in Europe to, you know, running elsewhere. So there's only one arrangement, no one type. It's a bit of a concern, because if the system is left to the execution control -- so a legal arrangement can't be made clear -- a little bit of appreciation, a little bit of practice -- it's a responsibility to make that practice fair. (x) 207 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I don't want to talk about the long law here. Anyway, I want to be brief. Let the law be passed at once, because they probably think that all those who are waiting for this law should leave at once, including the opposition parties. Of course, how many recruitment situations have entered the law, whether there's forced labor, the state of child education, the electronic surveillance process, what's the control, you know, signing, going, coming, staying somewhere for a certain time, not going anywhere, not getting out of the area, all of this, bringing uncertainty that the enforcers have to do with justice and justice. It's just that the law came out, and tomorrow everyone's out of prison, and there's no such thing as going home. In that case, the practices within this law must be carried out in accordance with good will and justice by decisionmakers, execution judges, and by relevant authorities. I don't know, of course, what the Minister suggested, the Ministry's proposals, of course, are about children in a 0-6-year-old group. Maybe two-year-old female prisoners, heavily ill prisoners, convicts, three years or less, cases that come with severe medical conditions, non-payment of medical fines... while there are those who will go to prison for frequent phone calls, violations of commitment, they say: "We gave a check, we couldn't pay our check." It's an execution, we made a commitment. We couldn't fulfill our commitment, we didn't have any money. But the Czech Law came out, those who didn't pay anything from the Czech Law, those who didn't have any commitments, what about our situation? There has to be a solution. But as a lawyer, let me share my concern here. To F-type prisons, friends, the application of type F -- I visited lawyers now, I visited journalists -- and there's a system problem -- a system that has a real problem with human rights, a system that has a problem with humanity. In this system, security, surveillance, officers, disciplinary measures, they're not all tolerated as a system, they're unbearable. In this regard, as a problem for a group, not for all of us, we need to revisit this type-F system with a parliamentary survey. There are complaints coming from everywhere, and when you add this system, this pressure, this isolation, and a life that is really unbearable, and care, food, and conditions that are already within four walls, there are difficult conditions. I'm going to ask Mr. Secretary's bureaucrats here to answer a question. My question is very simple. What is the purpose of the punishment? What's the point of prisons? Rehabilitate or bring it to society? If there's a case of a person getting out of prison, if there's a chance, you'll fix it. If you tell one person, as a crime type, that you're going to stay in prison until the day you die and your sentence ends here, what do you expect from this sentence, what will the execution system do? Is it possible to bring death to society? I wonder if that kind of execution system exists anywhere in the world, so it's an execution system until death. I mean, what's the point of missing out on the cantar's mace so much? In the practice of discrimination against certain types of criminals, especially from terrorist crimes or other types of crime, he must be punished until the death of a convicted felon who has taken a life sentence. But if he should be punished for his death, who will you reform, and what will you gain from the people? Is there such a method of correction? Is there an example in the world? Where did you come up with such a method of rehabilitation, such a method of execution? We have to find the answer to that, we have to look for it. The death penalty was lifted, the death penalty replaced by life imprisonment, plus aggravated life imprisonment. This has been brought into the system of life imprisonment, according to the new Penal Code and Penal Code and Execution Act. Now, to keep a person in prison for the rest of his life, what is correcting, what is solver, what is profitable to society? That question must be answered by bureaucrats with a study. And last words, friends, there are 130,000 people in prison. The number of official political prisoners is over 10,000. Let's get this straight. To date, states have passed special regulations, pardons, or reprieve laws on political prisoners and prisoners. It can be understood that the state would bring this to him in crimes committed against him. But in all the pardon laws that have been passed recently, especially political criminals seem to be kept separate; they break up and turn into a system of revenge, a system of hatred, a system of anger. Now, here -- forgive me, I have to give this example, and let no prisoner in this country take it upon himself -- someone who commits a shameful crime in this country -- no matter what, I won't count it. In this country, a convicted man can take advantage of it for up to a year or so from organized trafficking to tampering with the tender before it's violated. You know who can't? An intellectual, a writer, a politician, a chosen one can't take advantage of it. A person who writes a poem, reads a poem, writes a book, explains a thought can't benefit from it. Why? According to the Anti-Terror Law, there are no open prisons in the law of execution. For him, there are no prisoners of political crime in open prisons and he cannot benefit. This shame, this inequality, this injustice, needs to make amends somehow in the Ministry's next judicial package. If he doesn't make amends, we can't achieve social peace because it's directly connected to social peace. Look, last semester, an MP friend of ours was sentenced to 16 years in prison for speaking on this stand. In addition to this, press crimes enter the TMK, the Anti-Terror Law. Then what do we do? In this country, we will open the way for freedom of organization, and we will not look at political crimes so hostilely. He is a terrorist to the speaker of this country, to the author of books, to the illustrator, to the cartoonist, to the artist, to the artist. In order to make peace with his own children, he must ensure equality in the law of execution. What do you mean? Let's just say a man who had a speech critical of the coup of September 12th, and he's been punished for propaganda, he won't benefit from it; he read poetry, he won't benefit; he wrote a book, he won't benefit from it, but all the other crimes will. So why can't all the crimes take advantage of it? There's a mental disability here; this injury needs to be fixed, this inequality needs to be repaired. There's a downside to this law, it's not enough. In order for this to become a sufficient law, if there is no difference for the prisoners, then the execution law concerning them must be corrected as well. I say, from here, over and over, that the quick correction of this wrong will contribute to democratisation in Turkey, social peace, and our group has said it over and over again. On this Lawyer's Day, I will make it very clear that if you call it the rule of law, the right to defend will be free. If you call it an independent judiciary, the defense, the attorney's office, will be free, one of the three suspects of the judiciary will not be without it. If you want a fair trial, there will be no privacy, no confidential witnesses, no wiretaps; the prosecutor will not make a restraining order; whatever evidence the prosecutor has, the lawyer will have. If the prosecutor's gun and the weapon of the defense -- the weapon of the defense and the weapon of the defense -- are not equal, then the signature that we put on every contract that comes out of this House is a lie. We used the will of the nation, and in the name of the will of the nation, we signed the Convention on Civil and Political Rights. There was a right to a fair trial, a right to a plea, then, a lie. We've signed the European Convention on Human Rights, and the 6th article has a right to defend, which means if we don't apply it, it's a lie. We changed the 90th article of the Constitution, and we said, "The Court of Europe has the standards of defence, again, the criteria for the immunity of law enforcement, it has a special law, it cannot be searched, it can't be searched." I don't know the Minister of Justice. He says, "I don't know the special law." He says, "I don't know the special law." He says, "I specifically don't know the law." I order my head, I break the door I want, I enter wherever I want, I get what I want. He says, "I take the secret, the secret of the profession, I take the documents, I put it in a black bag, I put it in a bag, I tie it in my eyes, I put it in my eyes, I put it in the Anti-Terror Law." You arrest those lawyers and bring them in like this... those prosecutors who finished the same school, those prosecutors who studied the same law school, those prosecutors who knew that defense was sacred, when their special powers took over, what law do they practice in the name of having access to power that doesn't even know their fathers, their mothers, justice, God? Who do they work for? This doesn't work in martial law. How did prosecutors get lawyers to do this law that wasn't enforced or enforced in martial law? How did prosecutors arrest lawyers for their duties? Today, those prosecutors presented the indictment of those lawyers with a gift on April 5, Lawyer's Day. To the High Criminal Court. So, why are we judging the Kenan universe, then, if we call it a trial here? We can't accept this, guys. It's a sacred right to defend everyone. One day, we'll need prosecutors who practice this cruelty. At the Istanbul State Security Court, where I served as a lawyer, one day, I told prosecutors, ten of them that one day you would need the right to defend yourself. I was reading from the European Court of Human Rights, and they were laughing. One day, I looked at the faces of those prosecutors, and I said, "This place isn't permanent." And three of those prosecutors, the judges I was talking to, came in a year later for bribes, needed lawyers, needed defense. Now, I'm calling all the special prosecutors here, and you're going to need a lawyer. Lawyers did not give power over them, nor did they build power over anyone; nor did the master know them, nor did they become slaves; nor will they ever be in this country, nor will they submit. Those who fought the most resistant battles in the violence, in the coups, in the juntas, were lawyers. I congratulate all the liberal, struggling lawyers on Lawyer's Day. I condemn those who are silent against persecution and oppression. There are thousands of lawyers, but honorary lawyers make history. He writes Socrates, but he does not write any of the prosecutors or judges of September 12th martial law. The special authority will not make history of the prosecutors or judges of the courts, but will honor all the lawyers, lawyers, defenses, defenders who stand before them, and I'm telling you right now, we will not shut up about it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0185par0028	On behalf of the Republican People's Party, Ali İhsan İkturk, Zonguldak MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0186par0031	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in general over the adoption of the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures and the Amendment to the Protection Boards Act. First of all, I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, as we all know, there are 132,000 prisoners and prisoners in prisons today. When the Justice and Development Party came to power, the total number of prisoners and convicts, 59 thousand in 2002, is now breaking almost the republic's historical record. As a result, many of the prisoners and prisoners today are either on bed watch or lying on concrete floors. Also today, human rights violations from long imprisonment in our country have turned into a severe crisis, which has caused serious concerns within and outside all environments. Therefore, in addition to other reasons for this bill, which we discussed, it is seen that it has been referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, primarily to reduce the problems of prison capacity, but is largely unresolved from solving the fundamental issues in this area. When we look at the bill, the honorable lawmakers will be the first to be judged by the court's assessment report for the execution of the part of the sentence, which is carried out by the institution, which has served six months in an open prison or completes a fifth of the total sentence in the children's education facility, and which is a year or less, on the condition of the release of the prisoners, in accordance with the conditions of the release date of their sentences. Secondly, after a six-month period of separation into an open prison execution institution has been passed, the convicts will be able to take advantage of the execution sentence issued on the bill, as long as the terms of the release to an open execution institution have passed. In view of these provisions, the bill shows that the provision of the prison sentence, regardless of any distinction between crimes and penalties, has been carried out by consideration of the conditions of execution. Again, Article 105/A, which is considered to be added with the bill, will be subject to one or more of its obligations, and it will be decided by the probationary manager's decision that the sentence, which has been decided to be executed on the outside, should be applied on a conditional basis until the date of the release of the prisoner, be allowed to work for free or to be kept in a dwelling or in the area under supervision or to go to the designated areas or to participate in specified programmes, be subject to one or more of the following obligations, without the prisoner's will. Dear lawmakers, it is important that prisoners who have lost most of their jobs, family, and social environment during their stay in prison, who need help and support, are left in public with a planned release, supported outside, reformed criminals and brought to society. In this context, regulations brought in with the bill are criticised for the stability of crime and criminal politics in our country, but what is more accurate is that the punishment in modern criminal law is critical, as well as because the reforming, public-producing property has been prioritized, which we think is a positive bill. Dear friends, as Mr. Kaplan has just stated, this bill makes an assessment of the amount of punishment and the quality of prisons, regardless of the distinction of crimes and punishments. So either he'll be transferred to an open prison, or he'll be carrying the terms of his transfer to an open prison. So, in this arrangement, high-security prisons have been excluded from the scope of the law. However, as we all know, the principle of equality is the basis of the rule of law in the 10th article of our Constitution. Despite the fact that there are only conditions for the prisoners in open prison or for being transferred to an open prison, the use of prisoners in a prison that cannot be transferred to an open prison for reasons they do not have is not incompatible with the basic norms of the state of law, the basic norms of the democratic state, which are described as terrorism in the high-security prison, which we understand, in fact, is not a crime of terrorism. First of all, you have to put it as a basic criticism. Dear lawmakers, the execution of a controlled liberalisation measure of the non-lethal part of the sentence until the sentence is released conditionally is part of the execution of the prisoner, and in this sense it is a judicial action. As we all know, according to Article 9 of our Constitution, judicial action is carried out by independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. Therefore, the decision by the judge, not by the judge, but by the director of supervised liberalisation, means that another person or institution, other than the judge, will decide which part of the sentence will be carried out by the courts. Thus, the regulation of which of the controlled liberalisation measures will be decided by the director, given the clear provisions of the 9th amendment of our Constitution, clearly contradicts the ruling that the judicial authority will be used by independent courts and judges on behalf of the Turkish nation, the 9th Article of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, it is evident from the measures envisioned in the bill that free work is beneficial to the public is clearly in violation of the 18th, 49, and 55th articles of our Constitution. According to Article 18 of our Constitution, no one can be forced to work. It is forbidden. The 18th article, however, has also made an exception to prisoners and prisoners, and contains a provision that the work within the period of imprisonment and imprisonment will not be considered a chore. Dear friends, valued MPs, but when we look at the 18th article of the Constitution, it is clear that the execution of prisoners and prisoners does not include any provisions intended to work for free, even though it is not considered a chore. Again, according to Article 55 of our Constitution, the fee is the equivalent of the labour. The state takes the necessary measures for employees to obtain a suitable, equitable wage and use other social benefits. The 55th article of our Constitution tasked the government with a special follow-up on how to pay for the labor. Now, here we are trying to legalise an arrangement where the state's obligations mentioned in the Constitution are lifted by the state's hands again. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party Group, feel that it is not right to work for the public for free when the 18th and 55th articles of our Constitution are evaluated together. So it is reasonable under Article 18 that he is employed as a public servant. However, we believe that the 18th article and the 55th article - that is, the work is sacred and the payment of labor - should be done in exchange for a fee, not for free, and not for a fee, in the face of the provision which dictates the obligation to be followed by the state in particular. Dear lawmakers, again, according to the bill, the monitoring of suspected defendants and convicts within the community and the use of electronic devices are also arranged. According to the Article text, this provision also includes provisions on the pursuit of a suspect or defendant who has been released and has been released and is being subjected to judicial control measures, not only to the probationary release of prisoners but also to the arrest and prosecution phases. However, when compared with the material's text and the reason for the matter, the reason for the matter seems to be far from explaining the substance. Although the article mentions prisoners and prisoners, the expression was used to allow electronic devices to be used to monitor and keep constant control of some prisoners who were left behind on the basis of the article. So, more clearly, in the text of the substance, the concept of the substance was used together, while the concept of the substance was based on the concept of the subject, the concept of the subject, the concept of the accused, the concept of the law. Thus, although it is the text of the original material, it appears that the reason for the substance is extremely incomplete and therefore lacking, and therefore needs explanation. On the other hand, it can also be applied to the judicial control system in an investigation carried out under Article 109 of the Penal Code, which requires up to three years or less prison sentences. So, according to Article 109 of the CMK, the upper limit is not possible for the judicial control measure to be ruled during the investigation or prosecution of a crime that requires more than three years of imprisonment. Thus, it is evident that there is no way to reach the desired conclusion of the arrest verdicts in the investigations and prosecutions currently under way in the face of the limitation of Article 109 of the CMK. Dear MPs, Mr. Haberal, our valued deputies, Mr. Balbay, are arrested by the thousands, including eight of our MPs, who should be in Parliament today, who should be with us in the legislature, who are over 100 journalists, over 300 officers, Petty Officers, and over 600 students. With the Justice and Development Party's -- as I have just stated -- understanding of advanced democracy, today the number of prisoners and convicts in our country has broken the republic's historic record. Political power prides itself on building new prisons because there is no room in prisons. The arrest warrants in our country, unfortunately, are given by the European Court of Human Rights on grounds of identification, and this is no longer an isolated, systematic problem. Despite the fundamental exception of universal law, which is imprisonment, despite the European Court of Human Rights rulings, the 38th Article for the purity of our Constitution, and the open provisions of our Constitution's 90 ± of international agreements, today thousands of people are being disproved in prisons without a court ruling on the basis of a court of crime. Including Mr. Mustafa Balbay, Mr. Haberal and our deputies. The European Court of Human Rights has condemned our country hundreds of times since 2009, due to these lengthy imprisonments that have irreparable consequences. And when we look at these convictions, we get the same reasons. One, a reasonable period of judgment has been exceeded. Two, the long-term arrests are now in place of punishment. Three, long-term arrests are a severe violation of human rights. Dear lawmakers, again, 12,000 of the 35,000 terrorist criminals worldwide are in Turkey today. Our country, which has about 1 percent of the world's population, has become a country in which, unfortunately, the number of people accused of terrorism all over the world is one-third of the country, as a result of Mr. Prime Minister's standoff as a member of the prosecutor's office and all opposition to power as a member of a terrorist organization. Today, hundreds, thousands of university students face severe sanctions on charges of terror organization in private authorities because they perform extremely common and legitimate acts in Western democracies, such as opening banners and throwing eggs. As a matter of fact, in the International Judicial Reform Symposium, let no new victims or oppressed be created by Mr. Hashim Kılıç. We do not allow politics to envelop the judiciary. Their statements in the form of Supreme Court Chairman Nazım İstým İstým İstým, who has been away from justice, have not been long in the lives of tyrannical governments. His comments on the lack of oppression of the judiciary are clear reflections of the process in our country and in our judiciary. The developments in Turkey are now difficult, alarming, and unacceptable, according to representatives of the European Union, who have not only seen the Justice and Development Party as a reformist party, who have not been polluting the Justice and Development Party, supported the Justice and Development Party under any circumstances. Dear lawmakers, while being positive for the provisions to benefit from the Controlled Liberation Bill, which we are discussing today in light of all developments, are an arrangement against the principle of equality in the 10th article of the Constitution, against the principle of equality of the Constitution, aimed at partially relaxing the prisons of the judiciary, which do not have a place beyond the ability to solve the fundamental issues of the judiciary and maintain justice, against the basic principles of the number of staff and administrative law. In addition to the Third Judiciary Reform Package, which is discussed in the Justice Commission for the resolution of the issues of the judiciary, the forces that finds testimony in the beginning of our Constitution are the result of the principle of separation of the judiciary, the courts that will ensure the independence of the judiciary, the appointment of the Justice Ministry, and the resuscitation of the Supreme Court of Prosecutors, and the fact that the High Council of Prosecutors will finally be able to restructure by the principles of sovereignty and judicial independence, there will be a more realistic possibility for the AKP Powers and community-led powers to be created by the state of fear. I salute the High Council with these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0187par0057	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. The third speaker for the groups is Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0188par0061	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the draft law on the execution of Penalty and Security Measures in 207 rows, and the amendment to the Law of the Law on the Law on the Protection Councils. I salute your high council. I'd like to start by referring to events that took place two days ago at the Faculty of Language History Geography. In a fight between two groups on April 3rd, I strongly condemn the school administration that first invited security forces to the faculty, then sent the riot force before the incident calmed down, and placed 12 patriotic teenagers ahead of 300 separatists. In the same sense of September 12th, I invite one of you, one of them. I invite the faculty administration and the presidency to be fair. I'd like to say that I'm also celebrating our lawyers' big day. The goal targeted by the bill is to release the long-standing prisoners in penal and execution institutions after they are released to correct their lost work, family and social environment and support and to continue the reform process in prison under supervision and supervision within the community. It is a healthy expectation that the purpose, which can be summed up as a publicization of criminals, will bring a significant social benefit as a result of a good implementation through the arrangement brought in by the bill. Because the regulation provides people within the scope to work for the public for free, participate in mandatory education programmes and travel restrictions. As the National Movement Party, I would like to say that we have seen and supported this bill. Of course, in order to benefit from this partial pardon, you have to carry the conditions of a year and less time to release on probation and to be good. On the other hand, long-term arrests and frequent arrest decisions are also sought to avoid. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, we need to see what's actually hidden inside the bill. First of all, the bill contains around 132,000 prisoners and prisoners today, even though their normal capacity is around 80,000 prisons, although its compressed capacity is 116 thousand. About 15,000 people will benefit from supervised freedom and will be released from prisons. So, what's going to happen to these empty spaces, who's going to be filled with them? How and when will the important problems of our current punishment and execution regime be resolved? When will the problems of the correctional officers -- the conditions of the work and the rights of the essence -- be solved many times from this bench? What about the rehabilitation of prisons? Here, Posanti Prison, if the problem is learned by the public, is a hammock, a high-pitched conversation. Solution? Here's the solution. What needs to be dealt with is the problems of all elements of the penal system. In order to increase the efficiency of execution services, physical and technical infrastructure deficits must be repaired, and the organization and staff structure must be strengthened. Prisoners and prisoners should be held in criminal execution institutions in a manner worthy of human dignity and security, their services, treatments, transfers and transports, education, and rehabilitation, to be ensured that they remain in production. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on this occasion, I would like to pass on our assessment of the multi-spoken justice system and the criminal regime in Turkey. Many elements, such as İstanbul MP Engin Alan, are under arrest in violation of the Constitution and the law. In his letter to us, Mr. Engin Alan states that he wants justice, but not for himself first, but for his friends. And our duty is not to be silent over injustice. The ruling party, despite its parliamentary majority, does not take steps to save democracy and national sovereignty from this disgrace, but brings its own priorities to the agenda of parliament. I'd like to report to you that I'm condemning this. The provisions for long-term detention remain in place despite European Convention on Human Rights and European Court of Human Rights decisions. According to the relevant provisions of Penal Code 5271 in Turkey, the period of imprisonment can be extended to up to ten years. Two years in Austria, six months in Germany, one hundred and ten days in Scotland, four years in France. So, what's the rate of conviction for the prisoners? In Turkey, about 50-60 per cent, or more than 10 prisoners, are lying in an innocent place. In other countries, 99.9 per cent of the prisoners are convicted in Japan, 99.6 per cent in China and Korea, 98.9/u in France, 96.5% in Germany, 90.3% in England. According to these figures, the rate of conviction of prisoners in Turkey is very severe. If the ten-year AKP's government is to reform, it should bring regulations to equalise the number of arrests to the number of judicial figures. In the constitutional referendum, it is not right to deceive the Turkish nation and seize the Constitutional Court and the HSYK, and add some courthouse building, prison construction, and be constrained by November reform. For the past few years, the issue of long imprisonment that has begun to weigh heavily on the public's agenda has no longer been a legal issue and has become a social, political, moral, and conscientious issue. After people are removed from their beds at dawn and are detained as suspected of terrorism, they are sentenced to ten years in prison by the inventorship of Article 250 of the Penal Code. You didn't hear wrong, yes, in our judicial system, a new form of punishment and conviction has now been developed in the form of the conviction of the defendant. In fact, imprisonment is an exceptional and temporary measure that restricts freedom without a verdict of conviction, but given the circumstances in which we are faced today on the basis and duration of imprisonment, it would be safe to say that the exception and temporaryness of this situation have come out and become a common and permanent state. Modern, universal grounds, such as the strong suspicion of crime necessary for arrest, the true nature of crime, the suspect's suspicion of escape and the ability to black out evidence, have failed to be valid and binding; instead, the desire for the defendant to be punished in advance without trial, to have his nose rubbed off without trial, to be discredited has become a common rule. You may not have committed the crime described in the Turkish Penal Code that led to your arrest, or you may not have the ability to commit this crime, or you may not have the means or the ability to escape, or you may not have the power to black out the evidence, but these are secondary circumstances. The point is, do you have any opposition to government policies, a tool, opportunity and ability to spread these ideas on the social grounds, a reputation for the public, and a question of whether or not you will continue opposition when you are free? If such conditions have occurred, then the opposition's name is terrorism, a peaceful protest act of terrorism, eggs have been turned into Molotovkotakiline, unwritten books, newspaper articles into antitank mines, web pages turned into tanks and balls. Then you're a member of a terrorist organization, and you could be sentenced to five, five, ten years in prison. So today, in our country that's moved on to advanced democracy, although everyone can guarantee that there will be no crime, they cannot guarantee that he will not be arrested and he will not be tried for terrorist acts. I'm inspired by British Prime Minister Churchill. No one can guarantee that the milkman will be the one knocking at the door in the morning. Why has Turkey been like this in the last few years? Why did fear and anxiety prevail in society? Why are we turned into citizens of the horror empire? The answers to all these questions intersect at the same point: The converted judiciary also triggered the transformation of society. Yes, judgment has changed, it has changed, the resources and values that the judiciary feeds on, the sacreds have changed, the priorities have changed. For nearly a hundred years, there have been considerable distances in the process, which has been continuing since Tanzimat, feeding on modern, universal law, developing democracy, the rule of law, the development of human rights and freedoms, the establishment of effective use, the sanctity of justice and judicial independence in the eyes of the law. These values have been a guide for every judge who judges within the judicial order. Of course, I don't claim that our criminal record is perfect. We have witnessed decisions that we thought were wrong, that we criticized, that our conscience didn't seem reasonable, but even in those decisions that we didn't like, there was a certain measure of conscience and acceptable legitimacy. The decisions were best criticised by those in power today. It was alleged that the judiciary was ideological, that the goal of protecting and protecting the regime was to rule, that the judiciary was biased. The Constitution has been stated that the judiciary will be neutralised, that its ideological dress will be stripped and that the rule of law will prevail, but that is not the result. What has changed has been the ideology of the judiciary and its values. After the constitutional amendment, these universal values were replaced by concepts such as the title of power, the legitimacy and superiority of ideological differences, the birthright of ideological masters, the maximum number of rights to protection, law state and wisdom. The concepts of right and justice have mutated. Rights and rights have begun to determine political preferences, not laws. A specific religion, sect, philosophical faith, and involvement in the ethnic group have become reason enough to be right. For example, when being a separatist gives you the right to commit illegal acts, asking for a free university can make you a terrorist. Former Chief of Staff, who is responsible for Turkey's external security and territorial integrity in the first degree, is qualified as a terrorist who has infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces, while a police chief who has fought left terror organizations for 40 years is on trial as a left-wing terrorist, while on the other hand, state officials whom police wish to establish, govern, and defend an armed terrorist organization and act as a terrorist. A number of public officials, who have the same profession and carry out similar tasks, are still under arrest, even though they have been charged with misdemeanor crimes. This double standard situation is an ideological choice that I've just mentioned. Therefore, the criteria for arrest are neither the professions nor the duties of the accused nor the nature of the alleged crimes. If you have a belief contrary to the world's view of political and judicial power, you deserve to be arrested. I use the concept of judicial power consciously. The latest developments in our country show that there has been a new focus of power within the judiciary, sometimes paralleling political power, and sometimes conflicting with political power. This focus is increasingly concerned that both the appointment and promotions in the judiciary and the decisions made by the judiciary are interfering. In my opinion, the most concrete indicator is that the president and the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Speaker of Parliament insist on not changing the position of the judiciary, even though they complain about long arrests and unnecessary arrests. Although the government has a majority of legislation to change the Constitution, it cannot organise the establishment, its mandates, and its lengths of detention. Despite all his bullying in the eyes of the court, the government fell inside. The government, which accuses the judiciary of being under religious and bureaucratic custody, has been caught in an ideological trap by its constitutional changes to establish its own custody. He also lost his political power over the judiciary and put it under the tutelage of a certain staff movement. He has become a threat to political power, along with his supporters in the judicial administration that I'm talking about. Mr. Prime Minister, although I am not going to be a slave to the appointed ones -- the members of the judiciary and the police. Even if he feels compelled to tell the public about this, it means he has to share his power with these staffs and he has lost control of the business. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, law enforcement and armed forces with the monopoly of legitimate abuse in democracies are powerful, disciplined monsters. The chains of this monster are the state of law and judgment, so judgment is the power that controls this monster. If the judgment frees this monster's chains, it can protect society from political power or legislation against him. That is the basis of the problem we face today. Judgement frees the monster's chains, and it's thrown away where this monster's pulling. Evidence found on millions of pages is required to arrest the defendants, including phone calls, calls, and CCDs, before prosecutors are even able to read them, and arrests are subject to arrests based on the weight of criminal claims and the Vamatry of criminal allegations. Thousands of pages of paperwork are being read, and indictments are being prepared. The appeals to the arrest are again forced to be rejected by judges under psychological pressure by law enforcement, so that people can remain in prison for years without even knowing their guilt. Of course, the defendants can't know their crimes because the prosecutor can't read all those papers, so neither can he. First the prosecutor will read it, and then he'll know he's going to charge the defendant, and the defendant will find out about it, and he'll plead his case. Now, another important problem arises here: How are you going to exonerate a defendant who you've tried for years as a prisoner, who you've denied the appeal of imprisonment at the end of your trial? If he's innocent, won't he be asked why you've been on trial for ten years? It's hard to expect the judge to exonerate the defendant in this case. I've tried the prisoner for years, whether he's innocent or not, at least let me give him a conviction, let him come back from appeal, and his understanding will prevail. The testimony used by the judge in the Hrant Dink case is sufficient to confirm that. The judge says: I believe it's a gang, but I can't find any evidence to prove it. Let the appeal break it. This is the case where the judgment falls today. I salute the respected MPs of the Turkish nation with an independent judiciary, the hope of Turkey, where a fair order is essential.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0189par0090	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. The final speaker for the bands, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzek, Bart's MP. Mr. Bronze, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0190par0094	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group in general over the General Bill of the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures. On this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. Today is April 5th Lawyer's Day, and congratulations to all of our lawyers, all of our colleagues, on Lawyer's Day, and I wish you a successful career. Precious lawmakers are envisioning a new execution regime that will be executed outside by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure for the period spent in the draft and open execution institution, aimed at monitoring suspects, defendants and convicts through the use of electronic devices in the community. The primary objective in punishment is to bring criminals into society. The biggest concern of prisoners in criminal execution institutions is that they can adapt to life and society after being released from the execution institution. During that time, most of the convicts who have spent many years in criminal execution institutions have lost their job, their family, and their social environment. Therefore, they must be helped and supported after their release. The fact that these individuals are released into the community without any measures means that many prisoners face the challenge alone. Therefore, it is critical that prisoners be left in public, controlled, planned and supported outside, and brought to society by criminals. Controlled freedom is an alternative criminal execution system determined by the individual to facilitate the integration of suspects, defendants and convicts to society and reduce the risk of recrimination. In accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Ministers' Committee of Europe, the main goal of execution of a part of the sentence in implementing a controlled liberalisation measure is to prepare the prisoners to rejoin the community, to use specific methods such as half freedom, open regimes or temporary settlements in the execution of punishments as possible. Through this execution regime, it is intended to reduce the risk of re-criminals, allow them to prepare for social life, meet the conditions of evacuation, improve the ability to comply with social rules, and reduce the negative outlook of society to the prisoner. With this bill we're discussing, a new execution regime is scheduled to be carried out by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure for the last year of the time spent in an open criminal execution institution. Three hundred and seventy-three prisons across the country are housed in around 130,000 prisoners and prisoners as of last month. Due to new provisions brought into effect by our Turkish Penal Code and the execution of the Penal Code and the execution of the Law on Punishment and Security Measures in 2005, the amount of punishment in crime has been increased in general, and the time of release in the Penal Code has been increased from 40 per cent to 67 per cent. So in the previous system, four years in prison for ten years, seven years in prison for ten years in the new system, which increases the number of prisoners in prisons. From 2003 until today, the number of prisons has continued to increase due to increased sentences and executions in our new laws, even though more criminal execution institutions have been built in accordance with international standards, security, mechanical, electronic equipment, and in accordance with rehabilitation procedures. It is not possible to agree with the views that crime and criminals have been increased in recent years and therefore the prisons have been filled. In recent years, punishments have been deterrent, measures have been taken to ensure peace and security in society, sentences have been increased in the new Penal Code in general, and execution times have been increased in the Penal Code. For these reasons, measures are also taken to ensure that the crowds in prisons do not cause security problems and unrest in criminal execution institutions. The arrangement with the bill we are negotiating is one of these measures. It is not possible to participate in criticism of the bill. A change in the sentence period is not caused by a change, conditional release date is not changed, the arrangement is not an excuse, it does not put a new job in the courts, it does not require resuscitation of the files. In order to benefit from the provision brought in, the prisoner must spend the last six months in an open prison institution without interruption, be well-documented, stay for a year or less on a conditional release date. In the event of these conditions, the execution judge will decide. Even though he has earned the right to be exposed, prisoners who are unable to be released to an open penal institution for reasons such as lack of capacity, health, and demand will be able to benefit from this arrangement once and for all. The bill clearly states that there are prisoners who cannot benefit from this bill. Those sentenced to aggravated life imprisonment, those convicted of organised and terror crimes, those who have been sentenced to repeat judgments twice, those who have been sentenced to jail twice, those who have been sentenced to imprisonment for restitution, those who have been sentenced to death due to the return of a conditional release sentence, those who have escaped from closed and open criminal execution institutions can not leave the open penal institution. They will not benefit from this new arrangement. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are estimated to be able to benefit from the implementation of about 13,000-15 thousand prisoners if the bill is adopted. That'll save a lot of money. On the other hand, a significant savings will be provided here, as new penal institutions do not need to be built. There was a statement here that the provision for the free employment of the prisoners until the deadline of the probationary release was a violation of the Constitution's rules of forced labour and ban on labour. It is not possible to agree with that view. Given the two issues, it is clear that the arrangement will not be considered as part of the rules of forced labour and banning. One is that the study is subject to the prisoner's wishes, so the prisoner is not employed if he does not want to; the other is that free work in a public work is an option. Nor are the ideas that the provision envisioned was a partial and veiled pardon, and therefore the deterrent of punishment is contrary to the principle. The main purpose of modern execution systems is to encourage the prisoner to socialize, to strengthen the factors that prevent him from committing crimes again, to make it easier for him to adapt to a way of life that is productive, respectable and responsible for the laws and social rules. The arrangement envisioned by the bill envisions the transition process for convicts to connect with the outside world and to adapt to social life. For this reason, the bill is a requirement of modern criminal systems, not a partial and veiled form of forgiveness. Clearly, the regulation is not an excuse due to sanctions that have been imposed on the freedom measures of the audit. According to the bill, prisoners who have one year and less time left to be released on condition that they may benefit from this arrangement. However, given the universal principles regarding international contracts and children's rights in which we are on the other international documents, the high benefit of the child is necessary for prisoners who have a child in the 0-6 age group and who have remained on probation for two years or less than two years, because of a severe illness, disability, or because of my husband, who can't maintain their lives alone. There is also a proposal prepared to meet this need. With the adoption of this proposal, the scope of the bill will also expand and the number of users will be increased. It is equally important to help convicts and prisoners in criminal execution institutions to adapt to society and return to community life, as important as it is to apply their mental health and mental health by looking into developmental programs. While reviewing long-term arrests, statements have been made here that hold the AK PARTY and the government responsible. It is not possible to participate in these criticisms. In recent years, especially in terms of regulations made in our legislation, the constitutional amendments -- the 2010 referendum -- have been made, in fact, the establishment of judicial independence, the establishment of the rule of law, the very important changes in preventing the politicalisation of the judiciary. We're against the politicalisation of the judiciary. In the past, judgment may have been politicalized, maybe it was used as a backyard, but from now on, we don't want judgment to be used as anyone's backyard, and we don't approve. The bill we're discussing is a very important bill that will bring the prisoner to society, and I wish you all the best in our country, our nation, in the hope that this bill will be passed in the interest of a criminal execution system that society will be involved in the process.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0191par0109	Thank you, Mr. Bronze. No more words. We'll do the QA in 20 minutes. We don't have any friends in the system. Therefore, the talks on the entire bill have been completed. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. ACTIVITY AND PROTECTIONS TO PROTECTION WITH ACTIVE PROTECTIONS AND ACTIVITY OF PROTECTIONS DIVORCE TO CHANGE The article 105/A is added following Article 105/A, dated 1-13/12/2004, following Article 105 of the Law on Execution of Punishment and Security Protections 5275. "The execution of the sentence by implementing a probationary liberalisation measure MADDE 105/A- (1) in order to ensure that the condemned adapt to the outside world, maintain and strengthen their ties to their families; A) During the last six months of his sentence at an open execution institution, B) Completing a fifth of the total sentence in the children's education centre, In the request of the finely-designed convicts who have a year or less to be released on conditional time, the sentence can be decided by the execution judge, taking into account the evaluation report on the prisoner under the execution institution's administration. (2) Good-case prisoners, who cannot be released to an open execution institution for reasons against their will or sent back to a closed execution institution for this reason, can benefit from the execution procedure, if they carry other conditions, if they have passed at least six months' time since the conditions for being sentenced to an open execution institution. (3) Up to the date of the probationary release of the prisoner sentenced to the execution of his sentence by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure; A) Free work for the public, B) Control and supervision of a dwelling or area c) Not going to the designated locations or regions, d) Participating in specified programs, One or more of its obligations are decided by the administration of supervised freedom. Given the risks and needs of his sentence, his obligations can be changed. A) After leaving the criminal execution institution, he did not apply for probation in three days for his request, B) Insisting on the obligations set out on you, the audit and improvement programme prepared by the administrative liberalisation department, the failure of supervised freedom officials to comply with the control plan for this scope, C) Wanting to go back to the penal institution, At the request of the supervised liberalisation office, the decision is made by the execution judge to be sent to a closed execution institution for the execution of his sentence until the date of his conditional release. A) For another alleged crime, the arrest warrant is issued on Article 100 of Penal Code 5271, B) Investigating or prosecution for a crime which was alleged to have taken place before the audited liberalisation measure was implemented and whose sentence was not less than seven years old, C) Investigating or prosecution for a deliberate crime, which has been alleged to have occurred after the audited liberalisation measure has been implemented, which has a lower limit of one year or more, At the request of the supervised liberalisation office, the sentence is decided by the execution judge to send the prisoner to a closed execution institution. In case there is no room for prosecution or there is no place for prosecution against the convicted, the verdict of dismissal or dismissal of the sentence will be carried out by the judge of the execution of the sentence will be carried out with a controlled liberalisation measure. (6) Although two days have passed since the deadline for his application to the supervised liberalisation office, and those who have not applied have been extradited to the closed execution institution, the provisions written in Articles 292 and 293 of the Turkish Penal Code, which have not surrendered to the nearest Republic chief prosecutorship in two days. (7) The competent report issued by the administrative liberalisation department on the requirements of obligations and conditional release of the prisoner acting in accordance with the control plan will be sent to the court for processing under Article 107 and 108. (8) A controlled liberalisation measure is implemented and the basic and procedures for the execution of sentences are organised by regulations." On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles, Van MP Nazmi Gür. Here you go, Mr. Gür. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0192par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, on behalf of my group, I have taken a pledge on the law called "executive liberalisation." It's April 5th. First of all, I'm celebrating April 5th, Lawyer's Day. I wish that all of our fellow lawyers who served as defense officers and 38 of our friends who are currently in prison will be free as soon as possible. We give them our love and respect from here. Dear friends, the prisons and our execution system are very troubled. In Turkey, which is on its way to becoming a member of the European Union, the Execution Act and the total execution system have become extremely backward, troubled, and almost a big problem. However, the reforms requested by the Penal Code have not been implemented, as well as by our country's resources. Dear friends, I've visited about seven prisons in the last month. We've actually traveled through these seven prisons -- as the Minister said -- as a member of parliament -- and we've talked to whoever we want to meet. When we went, of course, we did not only visit prisoners or prisoners or people we wanted to see, but we did not meet them; we also met with prison staff during a visit to prisons. We've had the opportunity to talk to the principals, especially the death guard officers, and the other assistant staff, who've done the job of guarding the execution, and we've had the opportunity to listen to their problems. We met not only with prisoners and prisoners in prison, but also with their relatives, hundreds of people waiting outside the prison door, coming to see their children, coming to see their relatives, and listening to them. And they expressed their problems to us, and they wanted us to pass them on to you here on this stand, and they wished for it. Dear friends, when we consider the penal execution system as a whole, we would like to share our criticisms, thoughts and suggestions on three basic points here on this stand. The first important issue is the physical conditions of criminal execution institutions. Mr. Secretary, a lot of friends who visit the prison have this job, which, in fact, has extremely poor conditions, criminal institutions, prisons, prisons. These new types of prisons, aside from the physical conditions of high-security prisons, are not capable of sustaining the lives of those who were left behind, who were formerly called M type or type E prisons or women's prisons, or women's prisons built for children, who have been held there as long as physical conditions, or who have lived there or remained in long imprisonment or in prison status. It's probably for the best, our Minister knows that. For example, I visited Mush type E Prison, dear friends, it's an E-type prison. You know, there's been a heavy snowfall in the Mush and Bitlis area this year. Since the snowfall, I mean, for about three months, for four months, prisoners and prisoners have been unable to use the air conditioning, dear friends. This is one of the best, most recent evidence of the prison's architectural and physical inadequacy. Dear friends, the second issue we're going to discuss here is the criminal execution regime, which is legislation, which is what the Minister is talking about. And I assure you that the laws in effect are very backward, in violation of human honor, especially in violation of human honor in terms of disciplinary punishments, in which the practice will undermine human dignity, causing many human rights violations. For him, we need to do more radical solutions, more radical solutions, especially in the Execution Act, instead of bringing in the law and creating palliative solutions. Dear friends, the criminal execution regime is in the process of producing human rights violations. In particular, it is one of the things that we need to criticize as the worst practice of the punishment regime, when convicted women are forced from prison to prison to remove them from prison to their underwear at the time of their admission to prison. In this regard, both the women and the prisoners and the men and the prisoners, and at the end, the children are under arrest and the prisoners have expressed to us that they are deeply disturbed by these degrading acts. We've heard, we've seen, and we've seen, and we want to say this here, when our Minister is here, he's being taken to court, sent to a hospital, or transferred from a prison to a prison. And, of course, when you're always critical, you have to suggest it, and you have to say the right things. Here, all prison exterior security, dear friends, must be taken from the gendarmes at once. There is no longer any way for the gendarmes to ensure the external security of prisons in modern countries and a country on its way to the European Union. Therefore, as soon as possible, it is our recommendation that the law enforcement force, which provides prison external security, be formed by the Ministry of Justice. Dear friends, there are serious problems with the problems of prisons, especially with the price of compensation. Look, a three-course prisoner and a prisoner are worth $4 a day's pay. Let's give Mr. Secretary $4, or any of us, if we can afford a day's worth of property at $4... we need to re-arrange the cost of those prisoners and prisoners, rethink. In fact, I would also like to point out that in many prisons there is insufficient nutrition due to the cost of this inadequacy, which is why many diseases, many health problems, have arisen only because of it. Again, there are serious problems with transplants and transfers. In particular, prison ring vehicles are extremely backward and inadequate, their models are very old, often malfunctioning during transports, and you know, during a transfer from Van, prisoners and prisoners were burned to death. These need to be healed. Again, dear friends, health is an extremely important problem. It is clear that only a few days a week of family physicians will visit prisons and the health problems of several thousand population prisons will not be resolved. Dear friends, we also need to address the rights of prison personnel. In particular, it is important to state that the officers of the execution guard who served inside are locked up in prison for hours, just like a prisoner or a prisoner. We have to remember that they're human beings, too. In particular, the rights of the execution officers, the officers of the execution, and the entire staff of the prison staff must be reorganised, given their rights, the rights of the prison staff, and the rights of the workers. Thank you all so much for listening to me. I offer my love and my respect.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0193par0162	Thank you, Mr. Gür. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Turgut Dibek is a Centipede MP. Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0194par0165	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends -- all of our friends who have spoken on it -- have actually made it clear in detail -- the question is, why are there so many people in prisons? Why are our prisons -- I think -- at 110 or 106 percent capacity? So what's the source of this problem? Here are the growth figures in Turkey -- I think -- the Prime Minister announced them a few days ago, as well as the AKP spokesmen explained them with fancy numbers. Well, there's a lot in the papers, and there's a lot of talk about growth, but that's kind of controversial, too, you know, undergrowing, you know, what do they say, how do we grow up? Are we growing up right? Are we growing up healthy? Are we swelling up? Are we growing up with hormones? That's another thing, the economic side. But there, the newspapers, the press, they write those numbers so beautifully, but for some reason, they don't talk about imports, they don't talk about our current deficits, they don't talk about our external deficits, they don't talk about our debt. That's another problem. And he never talks about these arrests, convicts, numbers in prisons, the drama of people in prisons, the good friends, the press, the media, you don't talk about them. So that's the law -- our friend just told us -- it's a palliative solution, so it's a temporary one. It'll give you some relief, maybe give you some time, but then what? So you're gonna come back next year with a change of law like this? Will you come up with different solutions, dear friends? Look, the Law on the newly released Penal Code, the Penal Code, the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures, which has just entered into force in 2005... in fact, these laws have predicted a new system of executions, and there are provisions for them. I mean, what was that? Here are some methods, systems, such as supervised freedom, that people, other than prison, would face the execution of prisoners. In fact, this Law came out in 2005, so the Law, which brought in the institution of supervised freedom, came out in 2005. It's been seven years, so after those laws -- I think it's like August, September, that law came out, but seven years later -- we bring in this arrangement that makes changes in this Law, we bring in additionals, we bring in new approaches. It's really like our friends here said, you know, intent is to evacuate the prisons, take some of the prisoners out of the prison, and if it wasn't for getting over this problem in the short term at least, dear friends, I think these changes should have come sooner, so if the intention were to be like in Europe, you would not have to wait until now, if you had some evaluations to bring criminals, convicts, into society. So the main reason is that the prisons are full is because it's flooded. Just now, or rather, when the House opened, the Peace and Democracy Party had a parliamentary inquiry motion, dear friends. You know, it was intended for prisoners and prisoners in these prisons to execute their sentences far away from the provinces of their relatives. I listened to my talker from the AKP, and he actually said some interesting things. Why, in places where people were at work, in prisons close to their families, relatives, loved ones, in prisons near each other, at least to communicate with each other, to see each other, why can't the punishments be executed? So let's say we find a solution to cities that are a little bit more comfortable, that three people can't share a bed, that two people can share a bed, that we can move those prisoners or prisoners to cities, but he never said anything like, "Why are these people in prison? Why are people under arrest? Why are we harboring 135 thousand people, dear friends, in the prison of 130,000 people? There's nothing to it, there's no solution to it, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0195par0171	New prisons are being built.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0194par0172	Look, these numbers are all over the place. I'm going to say a few different things, but you need to sit down and think about this. From time to time, I told you from here on the stand, our other friends also said: Suddenly after 2006, all of a sudden, precious friends, there were piled up in prisons. There's over 100 percent difference between 2002 and 2011 figures, so in 2002, when you came to power, the number of prisoners in prisons is 59 thousand, now more than 130,000. I mean, how much has Turkey gone over the population, guys? How much? So over 100 percent, there's, like, 120 percent, but after 2006, the number grew very seriously, so after 2006, 70 became 90, 90 became 103, 103 became 110 over, 111 became 120, and then passed about 130. I mean, I think you guys should think about it. In a happy country, in a prosperous country where people live, why do prisons fill up, and why do they overflow? If we're growing up, the prisons need to shrink, they need to be inversely proportional, dear friends. If people are happy, they shouldn't go to prisons, crime rates should go down. There's something strange, there's a contrast. You never consider it, and the press never sees it, so he doesn't see it, he doesn't hear it, you know, there's a term for it, so let's not say it. But you need to see this. This is a mirror to me, dear friends. There's a problem here. So this problem also reveals the structural disorder that Turkey's AKP ruling has imposed on the country. Maybe you're aware of that. But you're being made to read such beautiful country scenarios at group meetings. Mr. Prime Minister says, "This is the country. This is how we got Turkey. We brought it here." He never talks about these numbers. One day, I want Mr. Prime Minister to talk about these numbers, and you'll see why this country is so full of prisons. There's one detail here, and I'll tell you this: I've recently filed a question motion, and I've received an answer from the Ministry of Justice. Dear friends, about children under 18 years of age -- because, you know, 18-year-olds are called children -- I asked for the number of lawsuits in the legal code, or rather I wanted them all. In 2002, 100,000 criminal cases were filed against children under 18 years of age, 100,000 in Turkey. Guys, the Justice Department didn't give me the 2011 figures, so I asked again, and I asked a little bit more, but the 2010 figures, dear friends, 200 grand. Now, that's an interesting story. Under 18 years of age, these are high school students, these are children. Why is the number of lawsuits filed against these children from 100,000 to 200,000 in your time? The numbers keep going up like this, but in front of me, here. From 100,904 to 199,461, 2010; I don't know 2011; I think it's probably in the 220-230Ks in 2011. This is an important event, my dear friends. Why are these kids committing crimes? Who are they? I mean, I don't know how many cases there are in the fight against terrorism, and I don't know how many cases there are, but there's something strange about Turkey's children, our youth, our children, who are our most important assets. Why are so many lawsuits being filed? And I'd like to present this to you, dear friends, for your information. I've given the Minister a new motion on this. In detail, I asked these children what kind of criminal cases were brought against them. I think we're going to have some dear friends to send it to us in the coming days. Our friend, who was all over it on the matter of the law, and the other spokesmen also stated. Dear friends, I mean, the people who were executed here in an open prison, the people who were executed, and because of the lack of space at work, there may not be room in open prisons, because I understand when you say, "It's against their will," there's no other way. I mean, if a person carries the terms of transfer to an open prison, it's a matter of regulations, and if they don't go there, I don't think there's room for that person in an open prison. There's a solution to these people. Here, it's said to be a relief from prison for about 13,000, 15,000 people. I assume you'd like to expand it with the motions. Why don't you, dear friends, think about it while you're on the committee? They don't come on commission, they come at the last minute with a motion. We don't know if it's private or common, so we're confused here. Dear friends, I mean, we want to support everything that's good, beautiful, in the name of humanity. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0196par0181	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. There's no further demands on the matter. We're going to question-answer. Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0197par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister, Mr. Secretary, about the courthouse in Bursa, or the courthouse in a different manner. He was suddenly taken to Butim, while planning at the Central Yıldırım. Do you find the location appropriate? Is the investment in our courthouse scheduled for 2012, how much funding has been set aside, how long will it take to complete? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0198par0188	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0199par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. If I'm not mistaken, the Bursa Bar was suing for relocation, betting that the previous place we planned wasn't appropriate. This case was brought against Baro, if I'm not mistaken, but by the way, more land has been assigned from the present location, and the project is being done at the request of our attorney general at the moment. After the project, the tender phase will be carried out. He's got no money problems, he'll be tendered as soon as his project is finished, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0198par0192	Thank you, Minister. There are three motions on the matter, I'm reading it according to the order of arrival: This is the first draft of the current bill, 207 rows. Article 105/A. In the title of the clause, I would like to add the indictment of the MPs and add the following sentence (9) to the end of the article. The nine-year-old elected MP is tried without arrest. M. Akif Hamzacebi Ali İhsan Kokturk Kamer Young It's the First Amendment in the United States. Article 105/A, subsection (3); A) free of charge to remove the declaration from the text B) We respectfully offer and supply and offer that the clause be redacted according to this, when the term is written by the executive director of administrative liberalisation, as a substitute for the term "investigation." Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Emin Çınar Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and add to the following jokes after the second joke of Article 105/A, which is envisioned to be added to Article 5275 and the first article in the framework of the Law on Laws of Laws and Protection Acts under the Law and Controled Freedom and Protection Centres and Protection Councils Acts Acts. Mahir Ünal Mehmet Şandir Hasip Kaplan Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat (3) The execution procedure in the above jokes; A) Female prisoners with children of age zero-six and two years or less to be released on condition, B) Prisoners who have been exposed to a severe illness, injury, or injury to my husband, who have been unable to maintain their lives alone and have been released on condition of three years or less, They can also benefit from other conditions. My husband must be documented with a report approved by the A.D.A., disability, or the A.D.A., approved by the health boards of the full-fledged hospitals established by the Ministry of Justice. (4) Due to the failure to pay the fine, the date of eviction is based on the use of the execution of prisoners sentenced to prison in the following jokes." The last joint motion read... Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0200par0220	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0198par0221	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0201par0222	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0202par0223	Motive.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0198par0224	Read the reason. In accordance with the bill, prisoners who have one year or less to be released can benefit from this arrangement. However, given the universal principles that are acceptable to the international contracts that we are on, and the universal principles of children's rights in other international documents, the child's high benefit, it is understood that a special arrangement is needed for prisoners who have a child in a zero-six-year-old group and who have been exposed for two years or less than two years to be released on condition, because of a severe illness, disability, or because of my husband, who can't sustain their lives alone. In the event that the convicts in this scope carry the other conditions mentioned in the first two jokes, they are intended to be able to benefit from the execution procedure held in the above jokes if they remain conditional release for three years or less. It is intended for my husband to be certified with a report approved by the A.D.A. or by health boards of the full-fledged hospitals set up by the Ministry of Justice or by my husband. On the other hand, prisoners who have been turned into fines for failing to pay the judicial fine will not be able to benefit from the possibility of early release under the probationary release of the bill. Therefore, there is a requirement for an arrangement in which the early release period will be calculated on the basis of the release date. I submit the joint motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. It's the First Amendment in the United States. Article 105/A, subsection (3); A) free of charge to remove the declaration from the text B) We respectfully offer and supply and offer that the clause be redacted according to this, when the term is written by the executive director of administrative liberalisation, as a substitute for the term "investigation." Faruk Bal (Konia) and his friends Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0203par0238	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0198par0239	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0204par0240	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0198par0241	Mr. Faruk Bal, Congressman of the Conium. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0205par0243	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we have stated that we look positively at this law as the National Movement Party, but there are some provisions that contradict the values of the Constitution and democratic society. One of them is about the free work of prisoners in the 105th article (a), which is held with article 1. My dear friends, free labor is called labor. It is prohibited according to Article 18 of the Constitution. Although the second article of Article 18 of the Constitution contains a provision that allows free work for prisoners and prisoners, we have no objection to the continuation of the second joke, but it is not in the sense that you can work for the prisoners and prisoners for free. In addition, according to Article 90 of the Constitution, international contracts approved by the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation are under the rule of internal law, and international contracts prevent and ban free labour. It's a violation of human rights, it's a violation of human rights. If paid, it would not be against the Constitution, the prisoner and the prisoner. On the other hand, there will be a lack of trust in legal problems that will arise during the work process of those employed for free. For example, the driver is the one who's running for free. He was in a car accident. It is true, and therefore will be treated in terms of criminal law, but there is a problem because of the procedures that he will be subjected to legally. To address problems in terms of compensation law and social security practices, it is also possible to correct this word, which is a reasonable fee, or to link it to a certain part of the minimum wage. Second, the second part of our motion for change is decided by the executive office of executive freedom. The declaration must be changed by the rule of expression, because all of the conditions written into the law as controlled freedom options are the replacements of the prison sentence which is being carried out. Prison sentence is a punishment that restricts one's freedom and is only possible by the judge's decision, but it is incompatible with the rule of law, it is incompatible with the rule of law, it is incompatible with the Constitution, it is incompatible with human rights. So this is what it looks like: the judge will make a decision to benefit from the institution of supervised freedom, but the officers will decide which situation to apply to. What's this? The judge makes a decision, the expert comes to say whatever he says next, that's what it means in Turkish. Therefore, I offer our motion to correct these two issues, to the discretion of the High Council, and to all of you, my compliments.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0206par0249	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion of Mr. Honey and his friends to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. This is the first draft of the current bill, 207 rows. Article 105/A. In the title of the clause, I would like to add the indictment of the MPs and add the following sentence (9) to the end of the article. The nine-year-old elected MP is tried without arrest. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0207par0257	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0206par0258	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0208par0259	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0206par0260	Mr. Young, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0209par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the first time I've asked you for something serious. (AK PARTY turns to noise and applause) I want you to feel justice and justice in your conscience, and I want you to make a judgment worthy of justice and justice. Our motion is, we say that the elected MP should be tried without arrest, so we don't say that he should not be tried. Let him be judged if your friends have a crime, then he'll go back to prison. It's the most reasonable, the most accurate way. Guys, look, eight of our congressman friends have been in there for ten months. Look, here's the item. Look, we also did the same thing with you; due to the oath, our group's deputy presidents have agreed to all parties to participate in law enforcement activities by lawmakers. There's nothing unusual about that. I'm surprised the government and the Commission don't agree. Friends, the elected MP has the right to participate in legislature activities. So let's have our friend come in here, join the legislature, propose the law, make a motion for questions, make a motion for a gene, that's his natural right. On what grounds? What did Mr. Recep say? He said: "We won't let the chosen ones be crushed by the appointed ones." He said, "We won't have them run over, will we?" Well, now, folks, this is the authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we do not forgive the crime of the elected MP. This friend of ours should join the legislature here. I mean, what's stopping it? You have to ask the government. Of course, now that I've asked for the acceptance of this motion, I'd also like to speak softly. But I mean, why doesn't the Commission agree? Let him say, that's why I disagree. So the precious MPs, people need to feel the pain in their conscience. So he must distinguish between right and wrong in their conscience. They have to make the right decision. I mean, why would a Mehmet Haberal, our eight deputies, stay inside today, guys? Okay, so if he's guilty, let him pay. For example, our friend Omar Bey just told me. Mr. Engin, the prosecutor of the field has been giving the original debate. So, what does that mean? Friend, I have gathered all the evidence now. And you don't need to look for new evidence. Well, they're still arresting this guy. I mean, that's... that's what we need to take over as Congress. What is it? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't say that it doesn't interfere with the judiciary... it says, of course, brother, the elected MP, that no one of us will be arrested tomorrow for a crime then. We say, "Let him be tried without arrest." That's the best, the most logical thing for me. Guys, this isn't about the party, I want you to believe it's a matter of right and justice. I mean, keeping a congressman in... and there's no obvious charge of crime, so this friend of ours did this... look, these friends of ours didn't steal, they didn't commit embezzlement, they didn't commit treason. What did he do? The idea, the thought... there's nothing to be said about them, so there's no seriousness in an indictment. So put yourself in their shoes. So one Mustafa Balbay hasn't seen two of his children in two years. Friends, it's a matter of conscience. Besides, people chose them, so they chose them as MPs. If a Mehmet Haberal were out now, he'd do his own job, save at least hundreds of lives. I mean, there are hundreds of people waiting for transplants. Why are we keeping these people from serving society, humanity? So if there really is a logic, let the government and the Commission say: "There is danger, my friend, we do not leave them for this." So since we are Parliament, we make the law because there is a last word of law in Parliament, we say: "OK, brother, I don't interfere with the judiciary, but you don't keep your MP in jail, so don't keep him in jail." After all, if the court makes a decision, if the friend, the elected MP, is actually sentenced to prison, then, of course, his parliamentary position will be reduced. What will happen according to Article 87 of the Constitution? Then you automatically lose the power of attorney. But really, it's a matter of conscience. Judge yourselves with your own conscience, friends. If, look, the AKP doesn't want these friends to be held politically, it's not my duty to judge, it's an opportunity to do so. But if you've secretly instructed the judiciary, if you refuse to do so, then the secret means that you're against the trial of these friends without arrest, and you're affecting the judiciary. That's what that means. In that respect, I beg you, for the first time, I beg you, I plead with your conscience, accept this motion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0210par0274	Thank you, Mr. Young. I submit to your votes, Mr. Young and his friends' motion that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In accordance with the joint motion adopted, I submit to your votes the first article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the first article has been accepted. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 2-5275. "Security 3- (1) is less than a year away from their conditional release as of the date when this clause is in effect; A) Open sentence is found at the execution institution, B) Under the conditions of being in a closed execution institution and to be split into an open criminal execution institution, In accordance with the demands of the fine-documented convicts, the sentence can be decided to be executed by implementing a controlled liberalisation measure for the part of their sentences to the date of conditional release. (2) Prisoners who have earned the right to be released to an open prison execution institution a year before they are released are entitled to a maximum of six months. (3) According to the fourth joke of Article 105, as of the date of which this clause has entered into effect, the remaining half of the sentence period will be processed in the following manner as follows: A) In accordance with Article 105/A provisions, the execution of the sentences of those who have not completed the period of their release is carried out. B) The execution file for those who have completed the period of conditional release will be submitted to the court for processing under Article 107 and 108." On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0211par0291	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the execution of the most valuable lawmakers, the Law on the execution of criminal and security measures, and the Amendment to the Law on Freedom and Protection Boards, and the Justice Commission Report. I salute your high council. Before I begin my remarks, I've just stated in my speech that my fellow lawmakers have specifically said, today is an important day: April 5th, Lawyer's Day. All of our co-counsels have around 75,000 friends who are active lawyers in Turkey, all of whom I sincerely congratulate on Lawyer's Day. Lawyers have serious problems. In particular, our new colleagues are facing very serious problems. Economic problems, unfortunately, seem like a landslide in front of lawyers' professional lives, and they're having a lot of trouble getting over it. Therefore, in the coming days, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I hope we can provide legal regulations regarding lawyers, legal legislation to improve their professional conditions. I'd like to make this wish a priority. Other than that, I have something to say about the current law and to share with your grand delegation. My dear speaker friends here, especially on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, shared these details with Mr. Ali Ihsan Kokturk, and I'd like to say a few words. We don't want to take refuge here, in terms of terminologically partial pardons or not. According to our figures, if the numbers are not wrong, about 130,000 prisoners and convicts have just said a valuable MP -- we face a partial pardon involving 15,000 people, with about 15,000 people likely to be released. As a group of us, we have some reservations and reservations, but we have nothing to say to the general rule of the law. Of course, it's also important to think that in a 2012 Turkish country where there are around 130,000 prisoners and prisoners and prisons are overcrowded, if we open a road like this -- so we need to think about this too -- we'll likely meet with a method like this in the coming days, perhaps in the coming years. I don't think that's the way to evacuate prisons, but unfortunately, we're facing the reality of Turkey. Here, of course, one of the main arguments when this law is being made is that it has to do with the current actual density in prisons. In prisons, according to the statistics of the Ministry of Justice, which Mr. Minister stated, we are now facing a fulrum of about 110 per cent, which is now above the 100 per cent limit. These figures are said to be increasing, especially in the southeastern and eastern prisons. That's why we're facing a sad painting, my dear friends. Other than that, when we bring in this law, we also face a situation about the arrest period, about the arrest period, which is that the problem with the lengths of long imprisonment that we face in front of us is going to be removed. This is one of our most important problems. The high-value lawmakers who have come out here have unfortunately filed complaints about their long-term detention period, and I have to agree with them. Look, I just got this report in front of me, and you guys are tired of listening, and we're not tired of telling you, unfortunately. My fellow lawmakers have just told me that eight MPs are under arrest, and two of our MPs from the Republican People's Party are under arrest, one of which is Mr. Haberal, one of which is Mr. Balbay. I personally observed the news on my visit to the prison where I had visited Silivri, who faced serious health problems. I don't want to paint you a dramatic picture here, but I'd like to share a report that I have. Minister, if we're here -- we've studied the same semester as you -- God forbid, if we're faced with a terrible painting, as a Minister of Justice, I wonder who you'll tell what you'll tell. So you're not a special official Minister of Justice, you're the Minister of Justice, so what can you tell people? Look, I'd like you to listen to this report -- Mr. Kamer Young has just mentioned it -- to your consciences. According to the 24-hour holter results of Mr. Haberal Τ, dated 31/03/2012, there is a report of valuable lawmakers: Despite the patient's abscession procedure, the patient's pulse reached 150/15 per minute, while the patient's heart rate was frequently increased to 17 strokes, although her heart rate of supraventricular tachycardia and arrhythmia attacks were reportedly suspended by one-and-a-half seconds during this period, 868 early pulses and 115 early ventricular pulses were detected during the day, according to which the patient's early doses had to increase by 17 strokes, although the patient's early doses were likely to continue to continue to be treated at the hospital, and the same time as an electrophysymology. There are medical reports that the life-threatening threat is advanced. However, in Silivri, health conditions are not too serious, but are under treatment for health conditions that will not help any cardiological intervention beyond listening devices alone. The arrest is a measure of arrest in all modern criminal law -- in the 1st class of law schools when we start college, Mr. Secretary -- I know they taught you the same thing. It's not a method of arrest, punishment and purpose, friends, they taught us that. Unfortunately, in Turkey's applications... I've been in practice for over 25 years, and I'm a lawyer. What we've seen here is that in Turkey, we've been in practice, in judicial techniques, we've been faced with a copy-and-cut process, a copy-cut-off. Judges took the reason for the arrests in another case, the old CMK 104, the current CMK 100, and took the reason for the arrests and applied them from that side to here, my dear friends. What's this? What were we saying? Arresting is a precaution. But this measure, unfortunately, has come to us in a way that leads to an arrest and punishment. One of the basic principles of the arrest -- I don't engage in special crimes in Article 100, so I'm putting aside crimes against the security of the state -- but one of the classic methods is the suspicion of tampering with evidence and running away. Unfortunately, they've reached the stage of their trial -- I'm not going to elaborate -- Mr. Suha Aldan will talk about them later -- even though all the evidence has been collected in three years, four years of trial by the courts, or three, four years of gathering evidence, we're curious about what they're doing. It's not just that I'm not saying these things in Balyoz investigations or other Ergenekon investigations, you're going to step in there right now. There are other investigations. There's an interesting contradiction in Turkey. Look, yesterday, we, representatives of other political parties, have just mentioned that there's a trial going on without an arrest method for the people involved in the coup, the leader of the coup, but besides, there's four years of open investigations about the people who attempted the coup, the arrests that have been going on for four years. Tell who what, my dear friends? On top of all that, Mr. Prime Minister has made changes to the MIT Law immediately, when it was based on them in any way, about the members of his or the prime minister's office. I also condemn the Speaker here. The Speaker is not doing his duty, my friends. What does the Speaker do where eight MPs are arrested, for God's sake, I'm asking you? What kind of work does he do?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0212par0305	Intervene the court?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0211par0306	He's not going to interfere in court. But what, we're not gonna make a legal arrangement? So you don't have a problem with that, on your conscience? Even if you don't share your political opinions, eight MPs, if he's not here, what business are we in, my dear friends? If a parliament can't protect its own honor, its own law, its own law, how can it protect the citizens' law? If the answer to that question is, when you lie in bed, your conscience tells you yes, there's nothing I can say to you as an MP, dear friends. Look, I appeal to your consciences. At the coming point, this application is correct, what you're doing is correct, Mr. Minister, we're not saying anything, it has flaws. The people who hope and listen are waiting here, but please empathize behind these walls, what are you going to say tomorrow -- think of the arrested MPs? We come from within the law. You said that when we came to visit you, on September 12, 2010, we took a public vote, sir, we did this, we did this, Judges Prosecutors formed, 10,000 judges voted... Minister, do you think we're the drivers of the Stitchers? And I'm coming from inside the app, and you don't think we know how to distribute those lists, how to break that judgment? So you're describing a painting, sir, like this... I'll say it again: September 12, 2010 is a breaking point for Turkey. The goal was different, you designed it. A congressman here just said: "We've asked the people who made the judge their backyard." Yes, that's right, when you look at it from your own point of view, it's true, but now, you've made judgment your own front yard. You've made HSYK a self-dependent civil servant club. You've broken the law. You've done your duty as a special mission to you in that sense, Mr. Secretary, but history will not forgive you. Here, look, I'd like to file these statements to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I don't want to say anything else, but I hope you're impressed by what I said. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0213par0314	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. There are no further demands on matter. They've entered the Young People's System for questions and answers. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0214par0318	Mr. President, I'd like to know specifically from both the Commission and the government: what is the issue of the current issue -- which prevents the MP from being tried without arrest? Let them explain. So what does that mean? Before that, sir, let the judgment decide. If there is no judgment, we can't interfere with the judgment. And now we're setting up a law under Parliament's authority. In this bill, we say that our elected congressman friends should be tried without arrest. I'm asking both the Commission and the government to stand trial without arrest. If they can't make a reasonable statement, then there's a AKP that wants these MPs to be tried, behind the scenes, there's instructions to the judiciary about this. I want this explained, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0213par0320	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0215par0322	Mr. President, I'm not giving any detailed information about the ongoing trials, but I can tell you this about the question of Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0216par0323	You're making a decision.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0215par0324	Let Parliament take the initiative and intervene here for the non-responsive trial of its MPs. If such a will is created, it is not his place, this is...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0216par0325	Where?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0215par0326	...the Penal Code; it is in accordance with the Penal Code...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0216par0327	That's the execution.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0215par0328	...is a matter that needs to be corrected.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0216par0329	No, sir, there's no stopping it.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0215par0330	Thus, even if such a will occurs, this law is not the right place to regulate it in the future. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0217par0332	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0218par0333	Mr. President, this is where the arrangement is. Let the commission explain, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0217par0334	Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0219par0335	As our Minister has pointed out, there are ongoing trials, and I would like to say a few words if I do not enter into these proceedings. Lawmakers or others can be judged as far as the Constitution allows, and they do not have immunity to prosecute for the crimes mentioned there.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0220par0337	We're not saying he shouldn't be judged.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0219par0338	Now that the court is in court, I think it would be best to expect the court's discretion, since it is also considered a direct intervention in the court's decision to remove the warrant from the court, which is under the jurisdiction of the court. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0221par0340	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0222par0341	Mr. President, that means the AKP is instructing the judiciary to keep these friends inside. Now you're caught red-handed. But we're gonna have to pay a lot for this on the street.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0221par0342	Okay, your words have been taken. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the amendment to the Law on the execution of the Criminal and Security Constabulary, the First Amendment to the Law on Laws and Protection Boards, the first amendment to Article No.275 and the First Amendment of Article on the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures, and the dissolution of its second joke from the text of matter and the evaluation of its other jokes. Mehmet Şandir Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Ali Öz Sinan Oğan Özcan Yeniçeri Seyfetttin Yilmaz As of the date this clause entered into effect, the sentence can be decided by the execution of the court judge, as long as he has not entered the execution institution for a year or less, and if he has not entered the execution institution for a year or less, and if he is ordered by those convicted for a year or less. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0223par0354	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0221par0355	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0224par0356	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0225par0357	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0221par0358	I'm reading the reason: The provision is a provision for convicts who have not yet entered the criminal execution institution, including prisoners who have been invited to be executed or arrested. The motion also aims to include a year and six months or less sentences as of the sentence period. Mr. Shandır and I submit the motion of your friends to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. The fourth and fifth jokes of Article 105 of Article 3-5275 have been lifted from effect. Proposal on Article 3? No. There's a motion, I'm having it read: The 105th Amendment, under Article 3 of the Common Law. Without charge in (1) of the article, we offer and propose that the declaration of the article be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Emin Çınar Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0226par0374	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0221par0375	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0227par0376	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0221par0377	Mr. Honey, here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0228par0378	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I don't think I've been able to explain to you the reason for the motion regarding the 1st article. That's why I'm back in your presence. Free work for the prisoner or the prisoner is a chore, dear friends. Besides being a chore, it's a violation of humanity, handing out the sweat of a man who works, not paying for his shift. Therefore, this is not only a problem in terms of constitutional law or in terms of the execution regime, it is also a problem in human rights. Now that we're all human, I think we're going to be interested in this human rights violation, and I'd like to renegotiate a few legal reasons. The 18th article of the Constitution has also added its second joke as an exception after banning forced labor. The second joke contradicts the legal logic to understand that free work of prisoners and prisoners is mandatory or that this is made into a Constitutional decree; rather, if we look at the further jokes of the exception of the work of prisoners and prisoners for free, it will be clear that they are not related. So I think it would be the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to give the right to the person who was employed if we took a look at the 90th article of the Constitution from here and the international contracts adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I've reminded you of this mission now, but I'd like to remind you of the problems that may arise from now on. Tomorrow, you will face a serious and huge problem in front of Turkey, when the prisoner and prisoner, who have been working for free, will be subjected to trial for the removal of this right or for a legal dispute that has arisen during this exercise, or for the failure to get the rights of those who are on the other side of the legal conflict, due to lack the right to work for free. I'm already giving you that cure, it's your high council's honor. My respects.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0229par0384	Thank you, Mr. Honey. I submit the motion of Mr. Honey and his friends to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4-3/7/2005 has been included in Article 15/A following Article 15 of the Law on Controlled Freedom and Aids 5402 and the Protection Boards Act. "Following using electronic devices MADDE 15/A- (1) Conspiracy of suspects, defendants and prisoners can also be carried out through public monitoring, supervision and control of electronic devices. (2) The basic and regulations related to monitoring, surveillance and control are organised by regulations." On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Mr. Ömer Süha Aldan is a member of parliament. Mr. Aldan, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0230par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, of course, it's interesting to address so many people at this time of night. I think everyone's tired, so you're thinking, "Let's go to the constituency or home, even if these negotiations are over right now." You're right, but it's a good idea to express some of our concerns, which is why people voted for us. I won't talk much. I had the right to speak on another matter, I gave up on it, but I have two amendment proposals, and I'll give you a brief piece of information about them. Of course, it's a procedure in Europe to apply handcuffs, to monitor, monitor, and control through handcuffs. Actually, there's a word that gives us hope. This article is a new addition to the law (also referred to in 15/A), and it carries the terms of the suspect and the accused. In the long run, we have hope that there will be an improvement in terms of open trial for suspects and defendants. My dear friends, there's one thing I've observed since I've been in this House: there's opposition on one side, talking about arrested MPs, people in the front row of the ruling party are always reacting, and the people in the back are immediately looking at computers in front of them -- unrelated. Yeah, it's a boring subject. Maybe now it's becoming ordinary, but let's just ask ourselves, where would a Justice and Development Party MP be if he were under arrest? He'd be here right now. That's the point, it's the principle that counts. One day you'll remember my words very well. That's all that matters. Those people can be guilty, they can be innocent. I'd like to bring this to your attention one more time in particular: if there was a Justice and Development Party, he'd be in Congress right now, but right now our friends smell of concrete. Mr. Engin Alan -- and I shared it with Mr. Kamer -- was elected MP from the MHP, and the republic's attorney gave his opinion on the basis of a case called Sledgehammer. This means that there is no other authority to be gathered together. The court believes that he has submitted the case to the prosecutor to give him the original assessment. The prosecutor gave him a 700-something-page deal -- 20 days or seven days. Now, you can't put that person under arrest for being insane anymore, but it's done, in the Balyoz case... in law school, the beginning of law school is taught in first class, the most sacred right to defend. The defense wants to say, "I have witnesses of the defense, listen to them. No, I don't listen." Even in a simple land case, the experts will object to the examination, there will be some further investigations, but in a case that is so important, 15 and 20 years, all requests of the defendants and their lawyers are denied. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister how many complaints have there been about judges and prosecutors serving in Diyarbakır, Ankara, and İstanbul, and how many of them did he give permission to investigate? Yes, sometimes we leave things to the judge. Here is the judgment, sir. We call it the judgment, but we leave the judgment blank. We leave it empty because we want it, because it's good for us. I'll give you another example. There aren't any BDP people here, though. The ACK case, I'd like to point out...
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0231par0404	I'm here.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0230par0405	I do. Here's the thing about the KCK case, they've got Kurdish defence demands. Yes, the defendants there want to stand up to the state, I have no doubt, they want to take a stand, they want to take an ideological stand, but as I said, defense is one of the most fundamental rights. The European Court of Human Rights has a decision on Layla Zana, and open the article on the interpreter in the Criminal Court, which is the first verdict. The European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey for violating its right to defend Leyla Zana for refusing to plead in Kurdish. Think now, my dear friends, there are 10,000 defendants on trial from the ACK. They all want to make a Kurdish plea, and the court won't take their statements. Eventually, this will go to the European Court of Human Rights and Turkey will be sentenced to millions, maybe billions of euros in compensation. And where will this compensation money go? This compensation money, yes, if there's an innocent trial there, there's a very low income rate in the southeast, and those people will have income, but where will the compensation go for those in terrorist activities who are actually involved in terrorist activities go? He will go to Kandil, and return to us. Now, there's no way a judge wouldn't know that, so, as I said, when he opened up a book on criminal judgment, he could see it, dear friends. So I want to draw attention to this point. Why do these judges not take their Kurdish defence? Let me put it in an interesting anecdote: Ankara 3. A number of defendants appeared at the Criminal Court and said, "We will defend Kurdish. The judge has agreed to their demands. He called an interpreter to the hearing. As soon as I called them to the hearing, the defendants said: "We don't speak Kurdish, we will defend Turkish. This is the extent of the work. And, of course, we want to get our hopes up. Like I said, we support this legal arrangement to the fullest, but I wish it had been put on a bench like this with a judge's record, so there was a void left. Who's gonna do this handcuff thing? A controlled liberalization director or a judge? Tomorrow, from the Supreme Court, be careful, he may return, such an application may return. There's something vague about that. It's referred to the regulations. It's a new app. I hope it's improved. My dear friends, there is one more thing we hope for. As far as I can tell, there's a Hashim Sword admiration in our court. Yes, their explanation is quite remarkable. But I'd like to point out one thing. I wonder if this isn't a prelim. Because Hashim Bey loves these things. One minute, during the re-election of the Constitutional Court, he attacks the Republican People's Party, and the next minute, he gives very moderate, democratic messages. I hope Mr. President isn't taking the lead because of some decisions the Constitutional Court is going to make in the coming period, which are useful to the ruling party, and he thinks he's taking a serious approach. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0232par0413	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading. It's the 4th Amendment in the United States. We would like to ask that Article 15/A of Article (2) of Article 15/A be removed from the text. Faruk Bal Mehmet Şandır Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Emin Çınar Ali Öz Mesut Dedeoğlu Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0233par0422	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0232par0423	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0234par0424	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0232par0425	Mr. Honey, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0235par0426	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are being arranged by our motion on a subject that concerns the privacy of a person, such as surveillance, surveillance and supervision. This surveillance, surveillance and supervision is no stranger to us. We all see together what a problem Turkey has in wiretaps, illegal wiretaps, technical tracking. We now know that these have changed the agenda in Turkey, became the first news story in sensational and newspaper headlines. Although surveillance, surveillance and supervision were arranged here in connection with the prisoners, I wanted to make contact with this angle, this point. On the other hand, it is the law that must be regulated, not by the Constitution, nor by the human values and democratic values that regulate such matters. This can only be regulated by the law... the private state of the individual, the privacy of the individual, or the area where the freedom of the individual can be limited in the controlled process of freedom, but we are faced with such logic that we refer it to regulations. I'd like to share with you the letter from Mr. Engin Alan by taking the time here. My dear friends, Engin Alan is not only a member of the National Movement Party, he is a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. There are other MPs like him, Mr. Balbay, Mr. Haberal. Now let's put our hands on our conscience and think together. No one knew what the evidence presented as defense evidence was, and since the investigation was already classified, there was no evidence of defence that the defendants could not know what they were accused of. The republic's attorney who conducted the investigation, as it was not shown, was obliged to gather both evidence against the defendant and against him, although legally charged with it, only those against these evidence were collected, so the process of gathering evidence was conducted in a one-way and in a secret way. Later, at the trial stage, the evidence collected by the state's prosecutors claimed that there was evidence of about a thousand or six hundred produced expressions, produced, in the form of technical stickers, in the form of california. These evidence should have been verified by the court, the court did not make such an inquiry. As evidence of the defence, witnesses were presented at the trial stage, they were asked for expert reports, and the court rejected them, and the case was submitted to the republic's attorney's office for a debate on the basis. So the court is determined to make a unilateral decision with the evidence collected in one direction. Suppose it's true what happened here, then what happened? The evidence is now being collected, which means the possibility of the defendants tampering with the evidence has been eliminated, as it turns out. What's left for the arrest now that the evidence's been collected, it can't be blacked out, since they're all in court? The possibility of escape. Where will he run to if the Engin Field is left? He has no other country to flee from, he has given his life for this country, and the unity of this country has served as a soldier for its integrity throughout its life in the southeast. Where will he run to, Engin Alan? Then is there any reason why he should remain under arrest? No. However, if he can remain in prison, we face a one-way trial, which, as Mr. Hashim Kılıç has explained, is a differentialized judgment in political or politicalisation. My dear friends, Engin Alan, in his letter to me, says: "I know my crime, Mr. Prime Minister, not to stand up in Çanakkale." I don't want anything for myself, I'd hate it if I wanted to. I want to be the voice of the orphans who are there, and I want you to tell that voice to the House. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0236par0433	Thank you, Mr. Honey. Mr. Faruk Bal and his friends' motion to vote that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following 26/A clause is added after Article 26 of the Law 5-5402. "MADDE 26/A- (1) shall be appointed assistant manager of supervised liberalisation, from universities and institutes of higher education, at least four years of education, or from graduates of higher education institutions accepted by the Council of Higher Education, and from the results of an interview by the Ministry according to the results of the examination. (2) The deputy director of supervised liberalisation is organised by written and by regulations on the written and interview examination and the audited liberalisation office of supervised assistants, the appointment of supervised liberalisation directors as assistant managers." Anyone want a word on the 5th? No. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article is accepted. The Law No. 6-5402 1) It's called "The Competent Freedom Services Act," 2) In the first joke of Article 1 of the 1st article, "property liberalisation and relief centers and the protection boards" are "provided freedom and protection boards," 3) The first joke of Article 2 of the "Developmental Freedom and Help Centres and Protection Boards Advisory Board" has been referred to as "The Delegation Board for Delegated Independence Services," as well as as as the "Property Department for Delegated Freedom and Helping Directors," as well as the term "Expertive Freedom and Helping Offices." 4) The first joke of Article 3 (c) was the "Investigation Board: Controlled Freedom Services Advice Board," (e) the "Date Chairman: Controlled Office Chairman" and (g) the "Directorship: Controlled Freedom Administration," 5) In the first joke of the 5th Article, the term "substantiation director" is "the directorate's office" in its second joke, "the branch director's office of supervised freedom and aid." 6) In the first joke of Article 6 of the article "Development Head for Delegated Freedom and Help Services" as well as the "Developmental Liberation Service Board" as well as the "Tested Freedom and Help Centre branch directorship" as well as the second joke, the "Developmental Freedom and Help Centres and Protection Boards Counseling Board," the "Developmental Freedom Services Board," 7) In the first joke of Article 7 of "Substance Directors," the term "managers," 8) The first joke of Article 9 (a), (a), (e), (e) and (f) branches of the branch office, is the term "Deputys" and (d) office managerships, 9) The title of Section III and Article 10 titled "Management," the title of the article in the first verse of the same article is "Subsidiary" and "Subsidiary" in its "Substructure Manager" in its second joke, "Substructory Directors" in its second joke, "Substance Directors" in its third joke, a branch manager in the branch manager's office. 10) The title of Article 11 is "the duties of the manager," the title of the "substantiary office" in Article 1 of the same article. 11) In the first jokes of 12th, 13th, 14th and 15th Articles of the Department of Directorship, 12) In the first joke of Article 16, the "subjected freedom and relief centre branch manager" is the "tested liberalisation director" in its second joke, "substantively" 13) Article 1st (a) of Article 17 (a) from the "Substantiary Offices" (a) 14) In the first joke of Article 18, the term "Substantiary Directors" is "Leaders," 15) In the first joke of Article 19, the "Investigated Freedom and Help Centres and Protection Boards Advice Board" is a statement entitled "Development Information Board" and a second joke (r) of the "Developmented Freedom and Help Service Department head," which is part of the "Developmental Freedom Service Service Service Department," which is part of the "Investigative Information Board." 1st article (b) of Article 16 of Article 20 (b) is the term "sympathetic managers" (c) and the term "sympathetic managers" (sympathetic managers"), and the term "sympathetic managers" (sympathetic managers") in the context of Article 20 (b). 17) The title of Article 21 "Results of Directors" is the title of the article "In the Offices of Directors," which is part of the first joke of the same article. 18) In the first joke of Article 23, the statement of the Department of Directors was "Deputys," 19) In the First Amendment of Article 24, the term "Substantiary Offices" was "in the Responsors' Offices," 20) In the first joke of Article 25, the "substantiation" of the "substantiatorships" in its third and fourth jokes, the terms of the "substructory" are "management" 21) In the first joke of Article 27, the term "substructory managers" is "managers," 22) In the second joke of the Interim 1st Article, the term "submaster" is "director" and "responsors" 23) In the first joke of Article 2 of the Interim 2 article, the term "Substantiary Directorships," 24) In the first joke of the Interim 3rd Amendment, the term "scene managers" is "management managers" in its third joke, the term "management managers" in its third joke, the term "responsibility," the term "responsibility of departments" in its "sponsibility managerships," and "supplies" in its third joke. has been changed in the form. Request word on item 6? No. Mr. Halaman, they wanted a word in the QA section. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0237par0470	Mr. President, thank you. My question to the Minister of Justice is that it was said to be to evacuate the prisons. For ten years, the government has been in power; they have filled economic, social, cultural prisons. Is he trying to forgive me now? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0238par0473	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0239par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. This is not a draft designed to evacuate prisons. Evacuation from prisons is the result of this bill. As a result of this bill, up to 15,000 convicts will execute the remainder of their sentences in public in terms of probation, which is true, but it is a step we take to develop alternative criminal execution methods in Turkey. There have been legal arrangements for judicial control, supervised freedom. Now, it was brought in for an arrangement that expanded its application field and made it more functional. As of today, that's 15,000 people, but every year, new people are going to enter that limit. On average, between 13 and 15,000 prisoners each year will benefit from this, a permanent arrangement, and now using electronic monitoring to facilitate judicial control detention times, which are not yet under trial, which will facilitate the use of people who are in the process of investigating, and the electronic monitoring system and the instrument that will facilitate supervised freedom for prisoners. We're making a legal arrangement for this. Thus, one of the modern methods of execution in Turkey is being laid down, and it is being developed. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0240par0478	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article is accepted. Now, I'm going to have the framework read the interim Article 4 of Article 7: The following temporary clauses have been added to the Law No. 7-5402. "Club MADDE 4- (1) can be appointed from the Justice Department's empty staff to 3490 officers without constraints in the Central Management Budget Law in 2012. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. There's no question-and-answer request. I submit the temporary Article 4 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. IN OTHER legislations, referenced to "The Law on Delegated Freedom and Helping Centres and Protection Boards" is considered to be a "tested Freedom Services Act" of what has been made as the "tested branch director of freedom and relief headquarters" of what has been "tested liberalisation directorship." Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the interim clause of Article 7 is accepted. THE executive branch managers of the supervised liberalisation and relief centers, which have been removed by this Law, are considered appointed vice principals of supervised freedom without further processing. As of the date appointed to the new staff of the staff in accordance with this clause, the total net amount of payments (except for the actual overtime fee), which they received in the last month as part of their previous staff, additional indicators, raises and compensations of any kind, duty compensations, additional payments and other names (except for the actual work of the actual legislation) is a constant value.) If the monthly, additional indicators, and compensations of any kind are higher than the total amount of overtime paid (except for the fact that the payment (except for the extra payment and so on under the current legislation) is higher than the total amount of overtime due to actual work, until the difference is closed, without any tax or cuts. Those who have any optional changes in their assigned staff titles, and those who are assigned to other institutions of their own will, will cease to be compensated for the difference." There is a motion on the interim Article 6 of the 7th Article.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0241par0493	Mr. President, I want a personal word.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0240par0494	I'll give you eight. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 7th Amendment to the Law on the Execution of Penalty and Security Measures, which is currently held in 207 rows, under the Law on Law and Controlled Freedom and Help Centres and Protection Boards. Interim 6 added to Article 5402. Article 1. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. 05.04.2012 Ali İhsan Kokturk Ömer Suha Aldan Mevlüt Dudu "Current Article 6 - (1) Those who run this mission from the director of supervised liberalisation and relief centers, which are removed by law, are now assigned to the staff of the director of supervised liberalisation, through monthly additional indicators of their former staff, any increase in compensation and other financial rights." Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0242par0504	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0240par0505	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0243par0506	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0240par0507	On the motion, Mr. Aldan. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0244par0509	Mr. President, even though there is no status change at the moment, law-controlled freedom departments are being transformed into supervised liberalisation directorates, but unfortunately, supervised liberalisation branch managers are getting vice principal status. It's a violation of people's rights in a sense, and it's a huge injustice to these people, that's one. Second: These people are now executives who have been specialising in supervised liberalisation for years; law school, political information faculty, education faculty graduates. The meaning of this arrangement is that the Ministry of Justice still has 134 managers of supervised liberalisation in Turkey, and that 131 are on duty, and that 131 are not satisfied with it, and wants to change them. It's kind of a fine staffing operation. However, these people are also employed during the current period of power. Ha, it may be that these people may not be pleased with their work, that a new cast may have been asked to start with a new spirit. But let's not forget that the exam will be reopened, the branch managers will be hired. During this period, deputy branch managers -- people who don't know what will happen in the future -- will remain in power, and they can suddenly be dismissed and become assistant managers in the care of someone who just got a job. This government has a tradition, so let's not break it. In that sense, I submit our motion. Let me close with a dot this time of night. Haydar Akar said if they don't accept this motion, I'll ask for enough numbers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0245par0515	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. I submit to your votes the motion on the interim 6th article of the 7th article: those who do not accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary 6th article: those who do not accept... the temporary 6th article has been accepted. I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. ADDDE 8-14/7/1965's Law of State Officers No. 657 (II) Inclusion Cetve "4. The director of the prison has been added to the term "Developmental Director of Independence" following the declaration. On the 8th article, Mr. Kamer Young has asked for a word on behalf of himself. Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0246par0524	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on Article 8 of the Bill of Law 207. I salute you all. Yeah, we just made a motion. Eight of our congressman friends are under arrest. What was said was, "Sir, we are not interfering with the judiciary." But when it came into your account, you took out the Shike Law in two days to save Emine Hanimah's relative from inside.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0247par0526	Don't go in there at this hour!
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0246par0527	After that, on the way to you on the Lighthouse case, you immediately removed the Lighthouse prosecutors while touching your leaders. After that, you immediately changed the position of a lot of judges who decided to make a mistrial. We have nothing to do with them here. He has the authority to make the law. What do we bring in the law? We say, as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is doing its legislature, it says: I am the judge of the people, the people's representatives, the people's elected people. I say, "We are not interfering with your decision." But you also denied it, you have proved one thing, which means that Mr. Recep doesn't want these MPs to come out. This is very clearly registered here, and you can't say in public any more: "It's a law, we can't interfere." You say: "Sister, it's normal, we have to be judged without arrest." Then you won't have that defense anymore. We are not interfering with the judiciary. Your thesis on its path has no grounds. Dear lawmakers, there are so many atrocities in AKP times... look, of course, with this law, you're getting over 8,000 staffs, new ones. It's obvious how you're going to make the appointment, who you're going to bring. And no rights in your time, no law, no rights earned. You've chosen a path that, even in the dictatorships, you're resorting to ways that demons don't resort to. What are you doing? You're disbanding a ministry by a decree of law or by a law, and then you're reassigning that ministry. Of course, now that the ministry has been annulled by the law, it's his case... where the acquisitors, the office managers, they're both from their position and they're from their rank, they have no right to prosecute, because you're breaking the law. It's a major dictatorship, the method of the eager. Now, I don't understand. Gee, me, right now, these friends of the AKP's... we all need a conscience, we all need a sense of rights. I mean, where in the world is it that human rights are seen to be persecuted by raising a finger, destroying justice, blocking people's ways of seeking judgment? In a country like Turkey, in a democratic country, but you're doing it, brother. So it's not a sin? Now, he's here, he's a manager, sir, you lift him up by law, and then, well, I'll bring my own men and throw him in here. I mean, what kind of democracy is that? What kind of human rights is that? Would he resort to this path that respects man, democracy, rights, rights earned? You're so ruthless about the law that when you're touched by something, you make the cruelest, most unjust, most unjust laws out here in such peace of mind that on the other hand, you raise your hand against the law, without having to do anything about the most righteous, the most conscientious thing. It's impossible for us to work in peace of mind with such a crowd. Look, we're, we're giving you a lot of leniency here, look, we're not talking about these laws, we're not asking questions, we're calling these laws. But why don't you show a conscience? We're friends, we're conciliating. Let's meet some of the right demands of the opposition, and we'll accept it. We all have common goals in this country. The common goal of all of us is that the people who live within the borders of the Republic of Turkey live in peace, prosperity, a sense of right and justice. But you're destroying right and justice for your little interests. I've been here 30 years. I've never seen people on this bench so biased, cruel, crushing the poor, looting the state.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0248par0536	Don't insult me!
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0249par0537	It's all lies, it's all lies!
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0250par0538	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0251par0539	I'm amazed, I'm amazed! People need to have a conscience, dear friends. People with conscience don't go down that road. What's the matter, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0250par0541	It's over.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0251par0542	Okay.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0250par0544	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, no further demands. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 8th article is accepted. MADDE 9-Ekli (1) has been cancelled and added to the Justice Department of Covenant No. 190 (I) of the Court of Justice (I), which has been removed from the Department of Justice of Justice (I) and has included the staff on the list of supervised freedom services (2). There is no demand on Article 9 of the article. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Article 9 is accepted. MADDE 10- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire law is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes for an open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures with the Law and Controlled Freedom and Help Centres and Protection Boards Act shall be adopted in accordance with the open vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 231 [[x]] Mine Lök White Tanju Özcan The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our Minister will now have a thank you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0252par0576	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our Bill of Law, 207 rows, has been enforced by the intense efforts of our ruling-Muslim MPs. The change in the Law on Legal Records, which had previously been legal, has also been passed within the understanding of our MPs in our Parliament. Let's not say that I really enjoy the fact that I'm not enjoying any of the legislature activities today, and I thank all of our deputies who have contributed to the formation of this atmosphere, especially to opposition parties, group vice presidents and deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a thank-you speech at this hour, but I haven't talked about this bill, and I won't talk long, and I'll finish in a few minutes. The state of our penal institutions in Turkey is not very pleasant, but we don't have as bad a painting as they say. We renewed our execution laws in 2005, and we're getting better every day. Now, over 500 prisons in the early 2000s have now been reduced to 377, and 207 execution institutions have been closed between 2002 and 2012. Instead, 69 more modern institutions of executions in the form of campuses were built with hardware. In the future, all remaining prisons will be renewed until 2017, and we will close down the 197 penal execution institution, instead of building enough, but less than what we've built, because capacity is growing. In the same way, significant regulations have been made regarding the conditions of child punishment. Ankara Sincan, in İstanbul Maltepe's service, the campus in Izmir Alibaka has been launched this week, with 360 capacities. The other day, institutions are under better circumstances, as our Parliamentary Commission on Human Rights has visited and our lawmakers have seen and appreciated the conditions there. In June, our children's education home is in service in Ankara Sincan. All of this has come to this day as a result of four or five years of planning. In Turkey I don't want to get into these discussions, detention, long imprisonment and so on, but I'm going to suggest something to you, which is the number of prisoners, convicts, convicts, convicts in Turkey. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Rates, fulcrum rates: Regarding these, a centre founded at Essex University in England has been working for a long time, and there are studies that evaluate Turkey and European countries. When we look at these studies, it offers an important opportunity for us to really see the picture where Turkey is. He has been arrested and the rest are convicted of 27.8 of every 100 people currently in prison in Turkey. Greece, Denmark, Belgium, Israel, Brazil, Switzerland. Better than us: Austria, Sweden, France, the United States, Spain, Russia, Germany, England. We're in the middle of a scale.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0253par0585	As a number or as a time?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0252par0586	I mean, of course we don't see it as a means of satisfaction. We're doing everything we can to bring this down. That doesn't satisfy us, but when we do, we're on average. I'm just saying that in terms of knowing. According to the population of countries, how many out of 100,000 people are in prison in countries? As we look at it, 175 people in 100,000 in Turkey are in prison; Israel, Brazil, Russia, the United States, more negatively than us, but Britain, Spain is close with us, but France, Greece, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Denmark and Sweden are better than us. Thus, we aim toward countries that are better than us. As for the hailing rate: 106 per cent in Turkey, 110 per cent in Turkey; this rate changes every day with our newly opened institutions. We are in the same position as America, Australia. Britain, France, Belgium, Greece, Spain, Brazil are more troubled by the level of hail in prisons than we are, but Denmark, Sweden, Russia and Switzerland are better off than we are. And here we have an effort to do better. We're not in a bad place when we look at these values, we're trying to get to a better point. Alternative execution methods, I've just tried to express, we're trying to create instruments of modern execution. In the coming period, I believe that the proportions of prisoners in our prisons are going to go further down, that the prisoners and prisoners with alternative execution methods will be able to serve their sentences outside the prison, and the alternative conflict is coming through the solutions -- which are coming to parliament -- hopefully, with a filter system before things come to the courts, we're trying to reduce all of this, by reducing the workload of the judiciary. The workload of the high judiciary has also been taken to a certain extent, and measures have been taken to ease it. Hopefully, in a year and a half, our complaints about long trials will be reduced to the lowest level in Turkey. It's our problem, we're trying to solve it together.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0254par0591	Mr. Secretary, how many people will benefit from this law?
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0252par0592	With this change, according to our estimates, about 15,000 people -- because we have a temporary clause here -- but if we look at the existing paintings in the coming years, 13 to 14,000 people will take advantage of this year -- this is a permanent arrangement because. I, General Kurula, thank our esteemed opposition representatives and our deputies. This law will bring blessings to our execution system, our country. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2012-04-05sit02spe0255par0596	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of the Parliament, the 5th ranking law proposal for the Development of the Forest Villagers and the Evaluation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Name of the Treasury, along with the Bill of Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures, along with the Milliyetian Movement Party Group Deputy Minister Mehmet Şandir. 2/B of the Law on the Development of Forest Villagers; The Law Offer for the Development of the People's Party Group Chairs; İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gür Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce; 2/B Peace Act (Orman's Law on Foreign Affairs of the Law), and the Minister's Ministership of the Parliament of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of the Parliament (Os of Parliament), and the Parliament of the Parliament and the Minister of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament and the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Constitution and the Constitution and the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Republic of Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Constitution of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Union of the Union of the Constitution. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin to discuss reports from the European Union's Integration Commission, Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, which are ranked in the 6th place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commission cannot be found in other tasks, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (April 10th 2012) to discuss the legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision taken. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
