tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 115th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsored statement belongs to Mr. Sırım Sakık, who wants to mention the anniversary of the death of Nazim Hikmet and Ahmed Arif. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. Congressman friends, please, if we could just be quiet, we'd be more comfortable with our congressman friend on the stand. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Mr. President, I thank you for your promise. I, of course, had asked for an off-the-book word on Nazim Hikmet and Ahmed Arif, but today is Earth Environment Day... Mr. President, we can't talk about the hum.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0003par0020	Here you go, sir. Go ahead. Our deputies will listen to you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0002par0021	Today, Earth Environment Day, I convey our love and solidarity to all those who have not interfered with my nature, my world, who have resisted all sides of Turkey, who have protected and protected nature, who have fought day and night for their own nature. Dear friends, Nezim Hikmet and Ahmed Arif - Ahmed Arif died on June 2, 1991, and Nazım died on June 3, 1963 - two of our country's most important poets, both of whom, because they love their country in this country, pay a heavy price for a free country. He spent many years in prison, twelve years and seven months in prison. During his stay in prison, he faced major injustices, and even those who greeted his relatives were investigated. One day, he takes two boxes of medicine to protest them, and the doctors take him away and wash his stomach. Then he comes back to the doctor and says, "Please don't share my childhood with anyone." This was the command of my inner child. A poet such as this, and he spent many years in prison in this land. After he was released from prison, his exile began, and he died in Moscow in 1963 due to a heart attack. Against injustices in this country, Ahmed Arif is sentenced to two years, Ahmed Arif is arrested, but, no matter what, he's in prison for thirty-eight months without the Execution Act. Ahmed Arif in one poem -- both of them in love with this country -- says: (Adilosh Bebem, You were born, We didn't give you tits for three days. Adilosh Bebe, So you don't get sick, Because of our custom, Now hit the boob. Attack me with magic... These, Vipers and centipedes, These, To our vaccine, to our bread It is they who are the observers. Get to know them, Diagnosis is magic... It's a virtue. It's carved on our dog tags, And that's patience. It floated through the nets. Give me a hug and grow up. And my spirit says: The days are heavy. The days come with news of death. The enemy is harsh, cruel and cunning. Our people are dying fighting, How were they then to live? Our people are dying, That's a lot. It's like with songs and flags, They went out on a holiday day. She's so young and so full of... The days are heavy. The days come with news of death. ♪ We burned the best worlds ♪ ♪ With our hands ♪ And we lost sight of crying. They left us with a bit of sadness and a lot of tears. And for that We have forgotten forgiveness. He'll arrive in blood. And victory is no longer enough to forgive anything. It'll be torn out by a fingernail... Now, I cherish these two great poets. In fact, these poems, written by the two, are so fitting that they invite all of us on a mission today that we all need to be united. Against who? Against fascism. Against who? Turkey is a united day of democratic forces against people who make people vomit blood. I salute the spirit of these poets, the unity of the Turkish democratic forces that raise our people and the power of opposition, all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0004par0071	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. The second word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP Nureddin Nebati, who asked for the name of World Environment Day. Here you are, Mr. Nebati.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0005par0075	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on June 5th, World Environment Day. I salute your high council. I'm celebrating World Environment Day on June 5th. In 1972, the United Nations Environment Conference in Stockholm, Sweden, was adopted as World Environment Day on 5 June. We're celebrating the second week of June and the week of Environmental Protection in our schools. The issue of globalization and environmental protection has been one of the most important issues of the world's agenda lately. Economic and political developments, which are the result of globalisation, have a significant impact on the environment. Intense studies on environmental protection prepare an objective basis for increasing environmental sensitivity, which is running through globalization. Environmental problems are becoming increasingly global, and the sought solutions are wanted on an international scale. Global-scale organisations such as the World Bank, the IMF, the World Trade Organization, the United Nations, and international actors such as the European Union organise and implement important environmental work. This process also affects Turkey. For many years, an effective environmental management system has not been established in Turkey, and natural and cultural beings have been exposed to the negative effects of economic growth. Political approaches to economic development alone have been adopted, ignoring specific, ecological, and environmental conditions that put economic development in focus. The EC PARTY has broken past habits and political approaches on environmental policy and has included new concepts that have not been focused on the political agenda, such as environmental awareness and sensitivity. One of the first and most important steps taken in this regard is the integration of the concept of sustainable development into the political agenda and the will. The importance of this concept also involves elements such as environmental sensitivity and democratic governance. Because increasing per capita income and improving physical conditions is not enough for quality living. Politics to protect the environment and human health are as important as meeting people's basic needs. The AK PARTY has made various plans to implement its high-level and integrated sense of environmental protection, and has implemented an important part of it. In this direction, the EC PARTY government also signed several international documents and agreements that radically changed environmental management order. New management laws have had significant impacts on the environmental management system. At the same time, the impacts of local governments have been increased, while the conditions for developing and interfering directly and quickly are created on issues involving the environment and human health, such as the problem of solid waste, supplying drinking water, and so on. Applications and proposals carried out during the EC PARTY ruling period address environmental issues with a holistic approach, both at macro level and microscale. The revised Turkish Penal Code has imposed criminal sanctions on pollution and zoning pollution. The Environmental Law, prepared to comply with the changing conditions, is also legalized by the opinion of NGOs. Thus, the Turkish legal system has been given a modern standard of environmental understanding. The Urban Transformation Act was intended to protect the urban environment while preparing. In addition, within the framework of sustainable development, the balance between conservation of the environment and competition and industrialisation has been maintained. Protecting and transferring our natural resources to future generations has been one of the most basic sensitivities of the AK PARTY power. In this direction, all industries and municipalities have been forced to clean up the environmental law and wastewaters to protect their water supply against contamination, and heavy criminal sanctions have been foreseen. One of the biggest problems of our time is that natural gas use has been spread across the country to prevent air pollution. Clean fuel has also been encouraged to use in cities as additional measures. In accordance with international regulations and technological developments, air pollution monitoring units have been established in all the provinces, and foresting activities have been given a huge speed. The supply of healthy and secure dwellings is also covered by environmental policies. The Earth Environment Day and Environmental Protection Week, which is the focus of the environmental sensitivity and awareness mentioned on the global level, also in our discussion, is one-on-one with the environmental policies of the EC PARTY. By reminding everyone that polluting the environment will mean destroying our own existence, I celebrate World Environment Day, hoping that all people will live in an environmentally sensitive, peaceful, brotherly green world. I wish all of us happiness and health in a clean and habitable environment. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0006par0084	Thank you, Mr. Nebati. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Çanakkale MP Mustafa Serdar Soydan, who asked to be mentioned as World Environment Day. Here you go, Mr. Soydan.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0007par0089	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise on Earth Environment Day. My respects to all of you. Today, we will not talk about the human drama of Uludere; the funny rise of civil servants and pensioners; the first prime minister of history, who had an eye for education workers, teachers' salaries, holidays; the corrupt manufacturer, the farmer, the farmer, the peasant, and the pensioner. We're not going to talk about the disgrace of the milk campaign, about the health of our children, about the birth of healthy generations. We will not talk about intellectuals, bureaucrats, university students, journalists, journalists, Parliament, Parliament, parliament who is waiting for a fair trial in prisons, and who can't take care of the MP, Parliament who can't take care of the MP. Today, we're going to talk about the health of mankind, no matter what conditions, and the water, the air, the land that we need for the continuation of its generation. Dear lawmakers, the main environmental problems that threaten all humanity are climate change, thinning the ozone layer and rapid population growth. The destruction of ecosystems of regional environmental problems and the loss of biological wealth. The main environmental problems are waste materials, garbage, industry, and chemical waste; air pollution is the result of corrupt industrialization and urbanization. The pollution of water is caused by industrial waste. When the earth's top layer of skin is destroyed by erosion, it takes hundreds of years to regenerate. As a result of erosion, we lose 500 million tons of our fertile land - the size of the island of Cyprus - each year. We have to stop this terrifying painting. If we don't take the necessary precautions, we'll be transformed into monsters who have brutally contaminated the land, the water he lives in, the air he breathes, and destroys himself. Earth's oxygen tank will destroy the Edenous Goose Mountains, the Sea of Marmara, the coasts of the Aegean and the Mediterranean, the unique vegetation of the Black Sea, and we will lose. I regret to inform you that no government official, especially the Prime Minister, has received any action, promise, or commitment from the environment in ten years. Does the Prime Minister, who has his word on everything, leave what is to be said about the environment to international mining companies, or is he protecting and protecting his environment instead of thinking about the environment? Members of parliament today are sensitive people who want to leave nature, Çanakkale, Kaz Mountain, and Kaz Mountain, with no personal interest to protect and protect them, Çanakkale Willows, Hawks, Ornilingus, Redeyes, Evlers, Çanakkales, the villagers who live in the area, and the Balıkesirites, who want to leave their children, their descendants, a habitable environment; they have no Prime Minister, no representatives with them. In the Black Sea, there is no government with the people of the Black Sea, who destroy the vegetation, work unplanned, and struggle in the wrong places. There is no government in Erzurum Tortum with Auntie Nafija and Leyla. Today, we're dealing with a government that welcomes those who claim their air, water, land, with a soldier's bottom, with a police baton, and fills environmental activists with prisons. There's no solution? Of course I do. The solution is to develop climate change policies formed within the framework of sustainable development and address the human-circle relationship with a holistic approach. The solution is to prioritize the need for the development and development of societies in harmony with the environment. The solution is to act with all the environmental volunteers, listen to them. There's no talking about technology, development, civilization in our areas where there's no clean, healthy air, no water, no soil. Civil society is a society that protects and protects the water it drinks, the air it breathes, the soil it feeds on. Come along, let's get moving right now. I want you to know in particular and remember that every moment of life, every minute of our life, 16 hectares of forest vanishes, 20 hectares of fertile soil disappear by erosion, another 32 hectares of desert. Let's all leave a clean world, a clean future for our children, for our future generations. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0008par0101	Thank you, Mr. Soydan. On behalf of the government, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar will respond to non-responsibility talks. Here you go, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0009par0104	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to congratulate you on your World Environment Day, June 5th. I salute the Grand Assembly with the words that our efforts and efforts for a better Turkey and for the world will continue to grow. Honourable MPs were declared the World Environment Day on 5 June 1972 at the Stockholm Conference, considered the turning point of international policies on the environment. Forty years thin today, Earth Environment Day has been considered a day of universal awareness in our country and in the world to ensure the protection and sustainability of the environment. Each year, the United Nations Environment Programme, or UNEP, sets the main theme for World Environment Day. This year's main theme is ▪ Does the green economy cover you? With this slogan, the United Nations Environment Programme invites everyone to make assessments of where the green economy is in our daily lives and what social, economic and environmental consequences are needed for development through the green economy. So, where are we as Turkey in the green economy? In accordance with the Green Growth criteria, the Climate Change Action Plan has merged our plan under eight topics -- energy, industry, forestry, agriculture, buildings, transportation, waste and climate change -- into the focus of harmonisation. It is also important for us to adapt to climate change because of its sensitive position in the Mediterranean basin as well as the control of greenhouse gas emissions. In this framework, we completed our Strategy for Climate Change and Action Plan. Although we did not benefit from the emissions trade mechanisms of Kyoto Protocol, we developed over 100 projects in the voluntary carbon market. Most of our projects are renewable energy fields, such as hydroelectric, wind and geothermal. We will play an active role in the creation of the carbon market for the post 2012 period. In this regard, we are involved in the creation of a co-operation in the carbon market, where the 25 leading states meet through the World Bank. Through this partnership, we will have access to grant resources for the capacity development activities that we need, and we will have the opportunity to do the necessary work for the country's carbon assets to be processed at maximum value. With our ministry's carbon record, we've done about 12 million tons of carbon dioxide a year. In our rapidly developing world, we face solid, liquid and gas waste, environmental pollution and ecological destruction as a common problem for every country. In the face of increasing environmental pollution, the ecosystem's self-renewal capacity is becoming increasingly inadequate, causing natural balance to deteriorate, and there are many environmental problems such as climate change depending on them. Thus, the goal for mankind in the new century is that everyone and future generations can have the right to live in a healthy environment and benefit from natural resources. To achieve that goal, all mankind must take the necessary measures. For example, it is important for our industrialists to produce environmentally sensitive by the principle of clean production, and those who consume these products are to act with clean consumption consciousness, prefer environmentally sensitive products. Respected lawmakers, we also believe that some misunderstandings should be corrected for investments under the protection of the environment. One unit of spending under the protection of the environment provides 2 units of benefits. In addition, the competitiveness of clean manufacturing facilities, which do not harm the environment in international trade, has increased greatly. In recent years, respected lawmakers have also made significant changes in legislation and practices on the environment, which are among the most important components of sustainable development in parallel with the socioeconomic dynamics and development momentum our country has had, and many changes have been made. We are making a serious effort to ensure that our natural resources are wisely governed and a habitable environment for future generations. The environment is no longer localized and regional, but it has gained a universal dimension. Today, environmental problems that significantly affect the present and near future of all mankind have become an important issue in the world where countries with different social and political properties agree on and have to agree on. In many parts of our world, however, wars are still being fought, and much of the resources are being spent on it. It is possible for us, as Turkey, to fully embrace the concept of cleanness that exists in our culture and in our faith, to become models of the world. We have many activities in many subsidiary sectors such as waste, waste water, air, sea, chemicals, noise, climate change. It is possible for these activities to continue successfully, to achieve the goal of applications, to have the sensitivity and awareness of individuals and society's environmental issues. In this framework, all efforts and efforts for the protection of the environment are aimed at co-organising and promoting it under a plan and by starting a breakthrough called clean Turkey, which is a sociocultural phenomenon of environmental issues. In this sense, a lot of work is being conducted by the Ministry so that we can be a country modeled in its region and in the world. Our basic approach to these studies is the zero waste and recovery policy, the payment of the user and the pollutant and the policy of environmental protection. As part of the policy of caution, which is highly important to our ministry, an emergency intervention plan has been prepared for environmentally compromised facilities. Thanks to zero waste policy, we're doing serious work to develop environmentally friendly technologies and to create the recycling sector. Sixty thousand people are employed in this sector today, and the country's economy is being contributed $1 billion. In addition to these studies, with 429 packaging waste collection and recycling facilities, 2,2 million tonnes of packaging waste per year, 40,000 tons of herbal waste oil oil with 24 plant waste recycling facilities, 24 tonnes of recycling and 35 additional fuel facilities, 430,000 tonnes of waste oil with 17 recycling facilities, 33,400 tons and 16 energy recycling facilities, and 431.581 tonnes of dangerous waste waste waste production. In 2003, 15 regular storage facilities serve 23 million populations, while today, around 757 municipalities serve 41 million people with 59 times the level of waste regular storage facility. According to the Waste Management Action Plan, we aim to serve 1,130 municipalities in 2012 by increasing the number of facilities to 130. At the end of 2011, the number of plants 18 in dangerous wastes reached 192. As it turns out, we're very concerned about the environment, environmental sensitivity, increasing environmental awareness, investing in the environment during our government's time. As the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, at the point of reducing fossil fuels, at the point of reducing dependency on coal, oil and natural gas, we will have very serious work at the point of producing transforming energy. In the process, we're giving our municipalities a lot of garbage collection tools in terms of raising awareness, helping municipalities... and we're giving loans and helping out at the point of solid waste facilities, wastewater treatment facilities and other environmentally sensitive facilities. Again, we have done serious work with the European Union and with international financial institutions, providing 300m euros in loans so far, and again with our municipalities at the point of developing and rehabilitating both solid waste facilities and wastewater treatment facilities. In this framework, at the point of investing in equipment and environment for municipalities, we have used about $2.1 billion from the beginning of 2003 to the end of 2011. Again, through our Environment Management General Directorate, we have assigned 714 garbage collection vehicles to municipalities so far. We have again transferred nearly $600m to municipalities for solid waste, sewage, wastewater, decontamination facilities, garbage carts, animal shelters, and similar investments in the environment. Hence, we have established emergency response stations on 210 coasts to collect waste and garbage on our shores, while the environment has not been collected before, while we are now doing very serious work in ship crash and waste collection. We also serve at Port 213. At the point of measuring the quality of sea water, providing the blue flag, we also contribute severely to our municipalities working to clear the coasts and seas. In this direction, again and again today, I salute you all again, with respect and love, our great Parliament, Turkey, our people, all of humanity.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0010par0126	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to give our members of parliament who have entered the system a say, but I'm giving the group's deputy presidents who have entered the system first a say. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0011par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, two of our soldiers were killed as a result of a land mine explosion in the district of lice, Diyarbakır. I ask for God's mercy to our martyrs, and to their families, the Turkish Armed Forces, and our nation's patience and condolences. Once again, we condemn terrorism as the Republican People's Party. It's World Environment Day. We celebrate World Environment Day as the Republican People's Party. Turkey had the Ministry of Environment as a term ministry, then the Ministry of Environment and Forestry; both projects were good projects. Now there's the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. We believe that the concepts of urbanism and the environment are concepts that should not be intertwined. We're concerned that the environment will be sacrificed for urbanism. Our request and request from the Minister of Environment and Urbanism is that he is as sensitive to environmental issues as possible. It's as important to the environment as it is to urbanism.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0012par0135	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0013par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, we pray for God's mercy to our soldiers who were killed yesterday by a mine explosion. Our condolences to all of Turkey, and we hereby curse terror once again. It's World Environment Day. The environment is not an institution or institution, but a place of life where all humanity is responsible, and all countries, at the same time, have a common problem. To leave a good environment for future generations, it is important that the public be conscious with the prevention of pollution, the protection of nature, the protection of destruction, the protection of green areas, and increased public awareness of global environmental problems. In this regard, we show our sensitivity in every way as the AK PARTY ruling. In addition to this common issue of humanity, we need to work together and strengthen the cooperation of our educational institutions, civil society organizations, our voluntary organizations, our written, visual and audio media and all individuals. An Indian proverb says that nature is not an inheritance from our grandparents, but a trust that we leave to our grandchildren.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0014par0142	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0015par0145	Mr. President, as the National Movement Party, we ask for God's mercy on two of our security officers who drank their testimony, and the martyrs will not die, the country will not be divided. No terror will achieve its purpose. I would like to take this opportunity to share with the House that negotiations with any kind of terror would encourage the terrorist organization. On the other hand, unfortunately, Armenia, the invader and the attacker, Armenia, has killed five of our Azerbaijan soldiers. I think that this aggressive and invader Armenia should be condemned immediately. So, on this occasion, the protocols signed with Armenia should be sent back immediately, and in this framework, the ball is in Turkey with Hillary Clinton's testimony. I think the ball should be passed to them in response to these statements threatening Turkey, and I say that the Turkish Parliament should also send those protocols back.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0014par0148	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0016par0151	Mr. President, we are celebrating this year's June 5th World Environment Day. The European Union reduced carbon emissions by 11 per cent during the 20 years between 1990 and 2010. Turkey's carbon emissions increased by 115 per cent during the same period. In 2011, the world invested 263 billion dollars a year in clean energy technologies, while Turkey could only invest one thousandth of that amount. When it comes to respect, sustainability, and innovation, our country goes in a fundamentally opposite direction with the world under AKP guidance. We hope you'll succeed in 2013, as you promised to license for solar energy projects that you haven't accomplished in ten years. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0014par0153	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0017par0156	Mr. President, it's Earth Environment Day. Because of this day, I would like to point out that the environment has been destroyed in Malatya, and that the beauty we have is spent in vain. I keep bringing it up here, and the beautiful mountains of Malatiah are broken down, and the stones are broken down, and the mountains of Malatiah are filled with holes, and it is as if they were wounded. The most beautiful water source in the world, Günhörbey, is the source of the environmental massacres in villages such as Exampleköy, Crossova, Dederit, Kelhalil, and even the graveyards, which have been destroyed. Thanks to these quarryes and mines, the village roads have become unusable, and people are no longer accessible. As the village has been inhospitable quarryes, so have our villages been grazing their livestock for hundreds of years and providing for their livelihoods. Recently, in villages such as Reshadiye in Malatya, Dedeyaz, and villages, people have been condemned to hunger in villages. Again, the hees to Malatya are our own...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0018par0160	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0019par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. We are reunited on a Day of Environment, where we celebrate the 40th anniversary. Today, it's a human drama that we celebrate this Environmental Day in the Parliament, where you're in charge of the implementation of the HESEs, of nuclear and thermal power plants. And in that respect, in order to deliver the House's trust to its trustee, I would like to say that it faces a historic and human responsibility, and I would like to extend my regards to you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0018par0165	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0020par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of National Education also implements mercury references to schools without a laboratory. For this reason, the Sugoren village of Artvin Hopa has been sent to the elementary school. This mercury was taken home by children to play in the closet. Currently, around 25 of our children are being treated for mercury poisoning in Ankara. Again, around 20 children are being treated in our Hopa district. Our three - year - old child is in very bad shape. It's a very severe victimization situation. Therefore, we demand that the Ministry of National Education immediately cease this practice from now on. Therefore, I send my condolences to our children who have been treated for mercury poisoning and wish them well, and wish them well, that this event be over, and that such sad events may never happen again.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0021par0171	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0022par0174	Thank you, Mayor. According to the decision made by the IDO in Istanbul, private vehicles are the only ones to pay more than $20 in the original fee on a motorboat between Eskihisar-Tops. Trucks and buses are not being used. While I await the order, I propose that special vehicles that pay more than $20 should be moved forward and end this exercise that makes the difference between class and group. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0023par0177	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0024par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. The negative results of the 4+4+4 freak show up. The removal of the CSI's weighted mid-education achievement score was justified just a few weeks before the LYS. In our country, where the level between schools is so open, this practice will no doubt lower the value of successful schools and students, since experts agree that implementation is based on arbitrary and labor is ignored. The claims that schools are going to blow up grades in order to look successful are far more dire than unlikely. So I'm asking you, why was the change put into practice two weeks before the exam, not next year? Isn't it unfair to students who think they're going to gain advantage from their schools, who are entering high-profile schools with SBS? Is there any guarantee that teachers will be able to write a lot of notes? Has the most important control and detection mechanism been installed? Have there been any educators who knew about the change in advance? Won't social pressure increase over teachers, especially when violence is discussed with educators?
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0025par0184	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0026par0187	Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to say a few things for Istanbul on the occasion of Environmental Day. The Istanbul Environment Order Plan, adopted by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality in 2009 and adopted by hundreds of scientists for two-and-a-half years, has stated that the Istanbul Environment Order Plan states that it has decided on the east-west flow of Istanbul and that it is a linear structure along the Sea of Marmara and that it is based on the principles of environmental sustainability and control of development to the north. See what happens if that bridge is built: 180km of the bridge road will pass through the forest, about 2,300 hectares of the forest will be covered with asphalt, millions of trees will be cut down, 85,000 hectares of forest will be filled with the population of the 3th bridge and the highway, and the natural structure will be destroyed in an area of 85,000 hectares, and Istanbul's water basins will be contaminated and unustainable. With all due respect, I present it to the High Council. It's Environmental Day, I wanted to remind you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0027par0192	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0028par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, Lake Eğirdir is a lake of 482 square miles [482 km] of beauty, the second largest drinking water basin, a lake that provides drinking water to the surrounding areas. However, there is an injustice in the balance of using protection, as special judgment efforts have not been concluded. Our peasant citizens, our citizens who live in the surrounding settlements, are unable to provide room for their married children. For the livestock of the village, the additional stables and hay barns are not built, nor can they land on a falling banner. When will these special judgmental efforts be concluded? I'd like to know about it.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0027par0197	Thank you, Mr. Proposer. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0029par0200	Mr. President, because of World Environment Day, last May 31st, I remember Metin Lokumcu, who was killed with a gas bomb for taking care of his water, tea, honor, and was declared by the Prime Minister. Capitalism and political power in our country are slaughtering our people's habitat, nature, history, cultural tissue with AKP government, energy, housing, agriculture and transportation policies. The power makes everything it is unfair. HESEs, thermal plants, cyanide gold companies, from the Black Sea to the Aegean, to the Mediterranean, draining all our land, our agricultural fields, our streams, and poisoning our streams. People, tea makers, and citizens of the Black Sea, who have resisted the HESS in the Trebzon Lefty Valley, are furious with the Prime Minister. They are not the only ones who are angry, but the cyanide companies that the government is looking after are tearing down houses in the village of Kütahya Dulkadir. The source of Izmir's drinking water is poisoned, and the olive groves of the Aegean are opened to the mines. Istanbul's people are furious with the tender for the third bridge to destroy its green. Those who voted for the power that led to the looting of forest areas in parliament...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0030par0204	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0031par0207	Thank you. I urge all human beings to be sensitive to the environment with their consciousness. Like all over our country, in the East Black Sea, our streams, our forests, our plateaus, our mountains, our greens are being slaughtered. In addition, our people are losing their lives because of neglect and lack of control. It's because of political power. Four of our citizens died in the middle of May in the district of Giresun, Dereli. I visited families in their village. What a mother tells me is an example: They pierced our mountains first, and then our heart. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0032par0211	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0033par0214	Thank you, Mr. President. On the occasion of World Environment Day, I remind you once again that we need to contribute more to our country's renewable and clean energy investments. On this occasion, the problems of our citizens, whose operations have been halted by the BDDK in 2001 and whose account has been placed within the Islamic Financial Institution, have been unresolved for ten years, promises have not been fulfilled. Our citizens who have re-signed contracts have not received payments committed to them since January 2012. The government calls on you to be sensitive about this, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0032par0216	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0034par0219	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has turned all its energy towards Syria, while Israel has launched its strategy to surround Turkey while trying to bring down the Bezar Assad regime. Israel is trying to corner Turkey by signing natural gas agreements with the Greek Cypriot Administration, a joint exercise against Turkey. Israeli planes fly in the sky of Cyprus. Meanwhile, relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia are becoming increasingly tense. Armenian soldiers attacked and killed five Azerbaijan soldiers. The lives of the Turks in Iraq, which have been abandoned, are also at stake. The AKP government is ignoring Kerkuk and Turkmen, as it were, about the Syrian Turkmen. On the other hand, the pressure of Maliki is on the Turkmen. I am once again warning the AKP to abandon the US's Central East gendarme policy, to return to Turkey's geopolitics, to pay respects.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0035par0222	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0036par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. This week I was in Amasya. It's a province that provides agriculture for the vast majority of the Amasian livelihood. Sadly, this year, Amasya's village of Yeşildere was hit by a violent hail. Vineyards, grain products, they're all miserable. Of course, these friends, the villagers, they don't have agricultural insurance. Will the government be working on this? Again, there are 22 projects of HES in the Valley of Greenery, our Amasya. Twenty thousand farmers make a living from the Valley of Greenery without watering it. Will some of these HES projects be stopped or will they continue? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0037par0229	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0038par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. AKP Power continues to create artificial agendas. While the country was dealing with artificial agendas, such as abortions, C-sections, unfortunately, yesterday, we lost two soldiers in lice. We've been going through a process in the last two months where we've buried 21 of our Mehmet-chik. Once again, I would like to express to the government that it must proceed with determination to put aside its understanding of negotiations with terrorism and fight terrorism effectively. It's no longer solved by congratulating yourself on these microphones or words. Again, today, we all know, Earth Environment Day. I celebrate World Environment Day, hoping to live in a green world, knowing that polluting the environment means destroying our own future. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0039par0237	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0040par0240	Mr. President, thank you again. Our Minister is there, but the winter conditions were very heavy in 2011. In particular, most of the sugar beets producers in Van, Ağrı, Bitlis, and Mush have suffered a great deal of damage. Even though we've brought it up here a few times, we've also had the Minister's word that the loans will be postponed. But I went -- I'm just coming back from the region -- and there's still no delays in debt in certain provinces, and there's a great loss -- Mr. Secretary, we'd be very happy to take a note, if he'd be interested. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0041par0243	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0042par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid I can't celebrate World Environment Day on June 5th. In our country today, there are many environmental raids by the power. One of them lives in my city, the footman. The run of the gold mine is run by a Canadian company's representative in Turkey, TUPRAG. Although the expert report filed during the operations of this gold mine indicated that the gold mine would have serious damage to the environment and that it would not be possible to repair it, unfortunately some of the trials against the mine were lost by the pressure set on the judiciary. What is worse now is that the land that will be brought out of the city of Efemchukuru is brought into the house of the servant, which is determined to be gold; and the servant shall be operated in the gold mine of Barrackad. The area has been decided to expand further. If it's operated with cyanide, if it has acid rock drainage, very seriously heavy metals are spreading around, spreading through the air, water, and soil. While we live with this poison...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0041par0249	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0043par0252	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to bring up the environmental problems of Iğdır (Iğdır) once again because on a day like this, we are experiencing environmental disaster. Because of the Meteor Nuclear Plant, cancers have increased greatly in Iğdır. The people of Iğdır drink water from Arsenic, and unfortunately, natural gas doesn't come to Iğdır even though it's gone from our side, from our right, from our left, from our left. But there's been a joyous development: 237 species of birds have been detected in Iğdır and Karasu districts, as well as the total number of birds in Turkey. I hope our Minister of Environment will take that into account and secure that area. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0044par0255	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0045par0258	Thank you, Mr. President. As of Earth Environment Day, the Minister -- I don't see themselves here -- but for the record at least -- has one thing worth attracting: for the past 30 years, the Melet River has been contaminated by the drop of toxic waste from a mine called GERKA. We thought this establishment had been shut down by the Ministry on a fine of $145,000 and closed indefinitely, but I've studied there recently, based on information given to me by my countrymen, the operation is still operational, and I don't think the Ministry's instructions are taken into account. On this occasion, I intended to draw the minister's attention on Environmental Day and invite the authorities to do their part to prevent this environmental disaster, so I made a promise. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0046par0262	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0047par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. I've brought it up a few times, and it's probably not taken into account, so I'd like to bring it up again. When government members face microphones, they tell each time that they are the world's 16th largest economy, that even though there is a crisis in Europe, there is nothing in Turkey, that the banking system is strong, but right now there is a crisis economy being implemented. The Bank of Agriculture is giving him half the loan he gave me last year. If a branch's authority was 100 billion last year, it was reduced to 50 billion euros this year. Now, the cattle ranchers, the agricultural lenders, they're all in trouble. They've paid off their loans, there's no going back. That's why a lot of farmers could go down this year. I'm warning the government for him. Please don't let them change this system, and don't let the farmer cut off the man who makes it, not the man who makes it, not the man who makes it, but the man who makes it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0048par0269	Thank you, Mr Varli. Dear Ensar Öğün...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0049par0272	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to ask Mr. Bulent Arinc any questions, but I'm going to tell you a story. Minister, we went to Ardahan on Friday with our Minister of National Education. When we landed at Kars Airport, they didn't put my car in protocol at the airport, they took it far away. When I asked you why you didn't take it, a civilian director there said it was the order of the Governor. I'm sorry, we didn't get it here, we didn't. They said, "We didn't get it." And they insisted, but they didn't. They took Mr. Sinan Okan's car out while he was inside, like they didn't take mine, so now I'm comforted to see him. Is such an event possible? Who are the members of this VIP, and who are benefiting from the VIP? There's all AKP's, county, county presidents, everyone's cars inside, everyone's cars inside, the MPs' cars aren't getting in, and the car inside is getting out.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0050par0276	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Öpün, you're back in the system, but I promised you before, we thank you for that.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0051par0278	Okay.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0050par0279	Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a motion for a retraction of the oral question motion, which I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 6/505, 6/1065, 6/710, 6/1787, I withdraw my main verbal question motions. With all due respect, I do. 04.06.2012 The oral question motion has been returned. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm resigning as a member of the Commission for Public Economic Initiatives. I'd like to ask you to do what you need to do. 30.05.2012 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Agricultural policies during the AKP period destroyed agriculture and led the farmer to bankruptcy. As the population continued to rise, the backward movement of production exploded imports. While Turkey is a self-sufficient agricultural country, it is now importing agricultural products. High cost and low efficiency clamps in agriculture cause Turkey to depend on more imports every day. So instead of building our own farmer in support, there was an understanding that was pouring money out. Turkey must be restored to food sovereignty and saved from being condemned to imports of agriculture. The main way out of this situation is through our farmer's support for production. Agricultural input support, such as diesel, fertilizer, seed, medicine, and bait, has a complementary role in the success of agricultural policies. Insufficient input supports are not enough motivation for the manufacturer's technical and economically efficient input level. Depending on this, the manufacturer gives up farming, the agricultural areas are shrinking, as hundreds of thousands of peasant producers leave the countryside and migrate to cities. However, our producers must provide sufficient income from agriculture to remain in the agricultural sector. However, most of the inputs are dependent on the outside, causing the price of input not to be controlled, while the farmer's inputs are constantly increasing, but the products remain in place. The comparison of wheat-maze and wheat-strengthen prices clearly reveals the difficulties our farmer faces. The price of a kilogram of wheat was 230 cents in 2002 and 550 cents in 2011. The price of 1 litre of diesel was $1.09 in the same year at $3.75. In this framework, the manufacturer must sell 4.73 kg of wheat in 2002 to buy 1 litre of diesel, while in 2011 the manufacturer must sell about 7 kg of wheat. The same is true of the fertilizer-butter price relationship. In 2002, 1 kg of fertilizer was 237 cents, while the price rose to $1.20 in 2011. In 2002, the farmer sold 1,030 kg of wheat to buy 1 ton of urine, while the amount of wheat needed to be sold in 2011 increased to about 1,850 kg. In this framework, the internal trade border change against the manufacturer, shown above between wheat/maze and wheat-strength, appears against the manufacturer again and more fiercely in other products. In addition to these problems, the farmer's tax on the gas alone is close to nearly all of his agricultural support budget, due to an indirect tax burden on diesel. About $1.125 of the $3.75 our village manufacturer paid for a gallon of masoth. With the farmer's support, the price paid for the mazota is only 5 per cent. As you can see, input costs, such as diesel and fertilizer costs, threaten production. In addition, it is not possible for our agricultural people to continue farming if other inputs are considered. The price of basic inputs increases very quickly, while the production of product prices does not increase at the same level. In fact, agriculture in Turkey is not fully supported, it is taxed on the contrary. For this reason, the Constitution is 98, 104 and 105 for a comprehensive study of the reasons for the growth of the size and size of agriculture, the negative effects of agriculture, economic damage and how to repair these losses. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit the requirement for a parliamentary investigation. [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 14) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Sinop]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[Ankara]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The problems of societies and individuals are getting complicated and diversified every day. Meeting the needs of societies and individuals requires the effective use of limited resources in their hands. Resolving problems depends on understanding and governance. Raising sufficient executives at all levels, trying to overcome management problems by scientific means, is the priority of every country. This is the 104th and 105th edition of our association to investigate the social, social and psychological problems of students who have graduated from the Economics and Economic Sciences faculty of various universities in our country and are currently studying. By establishing the Commission for Research, we demand and demand that the matter be investigated. [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] [[Malatya]] 4) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 9) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İzmir]] 11) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 15) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 21) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] In the globalized world, economic, social and political relations are developing very quickly. Depending on this situation, the management of companies and institutions in each area, the creation of their policies depends on the well-developed manpower that analyses local and global changes. In some universities, the Economics and Economic Sciences Facultys, which are opened in almost every university, only graduates under the name of business or Economics School. Universitys that open one after the other, such as watering the pool, graduate with a major debi, employment opportunities, Turkey's need for professions, are said to have finished the university every year and joined the "diployable unemployed" army and have reached 30 per cent of the unemployment rate of a university graduate. Each year, an average of 900,000 university graduates have been shown applying for the Public Staff Selection Exam (900,000), and only about 7,000 (seven thousand) were received during the first two postings, despite the fact that the KPSS (The Public Staff Selection Exam) was held in 2010. After a four-year-old college college student who studies at a public university, stays in a state dorm, the family budget of housing, tuition, books, food, roads and clothing has been burdened with unemployment problems that have caused severe damage by family and young people. In the same way, given the state's spending on a university student during his studies, it turns out that the state has been deprived of a large amount of qualified labor. In recent years, economics and administrative sciences have led hundreds of thousands of young people, who have only graduated from institutions that teach only under the name of Business or Economics Faculty, to the prospect of finding jobs in private sectors, without insurance, underpaid, not getting paid properly, not being able to transfer their knowledge and experience, and having poor working conditions, have led to the hope of young college graduates in the public to find a job with a guaranteed income. Therefore, in some universities, the Economics and Executive Sciences Departments are important to investigate by setting up a parliamentary research commission to determine the problems of students and their families, who have graduated from institutions that have graduated only under the name of Business School or Economics Faculty. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The total population of the district of Yayladere is 2,087. There are 26 villages in the district. Our county has been experiencing infrastructure, service and health problems for years. A serious and comprehensive work has yet to be done to address these problems. As a result, our county is about to be sentenced to humanization. The Constitution is 98th in order to address the problems that our Yayladere county has been licking for years. And it's 104 and 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, I'd like to request that Parliamentary Investigation be opened. For years, the Yayladere district of Bingöl Province has faced many problems. Citizens in our county have been calling for help for years, but in no way have they been paying attention to these calls. In 1990, the total population in Yayladere County dropped from 3,607 to 2,087 in 2007. As a source of this decline, the mandatory migration of the 1990s has been shown, but recently, our citizens who want to return to their villages face challenges both in terms of bureaucratic and service, and in the summer months when dealing with problems is relatively comfortable, our county population rises to over 5,000. The territorial road that connects him to Kiğı district of Yayladere district is still stable. This is a sign of shame for 2011. There hasn't been much progress in infrastructure services. The power grids are causing problems for citizens due to lack of care, water networks and sewage. Land irrigation channels are not found in other villages, except four villages. The telephone and the Internet issue and the unresolved situation of them have provoked residents. County headquarters and villages are unable to receive any help from the municipality or the governorate's office, CYDES. There is no state hospital in the district, and citizens are searching for ways to go to Bingöl Central State Hospital, 100km from the district, if problems arise that they cannot afford. Again, in our district of Yayladere, the current high school is considered to be closed in the year we are in. This prevents the education of the young population and forces families to emigrate from the district. The most important thing to the county is to try to destroy forest areas through a permitted but unregulated section. The destruction of nature causes the extinction of dozens of species every year. There's been a situation where hunters have been hunting outside the hunting season and are not subject to any supervision. The production of HES is the main cause of the natural disaster. All these attempts to disrupt the ecological balance are extremely disturbing to my people in the county, and they take anxiety to the level of migration. There are many mines around police stations in the district that have been built in the past period and then removed, and no work has been done to clean them up. This is life-threatening and restricting production. The region's main livelihood, beekeeping, has been weakened by the wrong state policies. This took away the people's primary livelihood and forced them to emigrate. The source of all these problems and the irresolvency are public officials who are responsible for blocking the screams of the public, the muhtars, the political party representatives, the NGOs. I just want to make it clear by imitating a few of the unresponsive applications of a village chief. Many petitions made by the district head of Sarıtosun in our district to the state's institutions and authorities from 2009 to today have remained unanswered. Responding to official petitions has been the legal obligation of the relevant office, while a clear violation of the law has been made and the problems have been left unresolved. The 23rd district MP in the district of Bingol is the head of the district. The petition submitted to the office of Term State Minister Cevdet Yilmaz has been awaiting an answer since 27.05.2009. On 30,04,2009, these petitions were issued to the Governorate of Yayladere on 30,04,2009, to the Governorate of Bingol at 24,11,2009, to the DSI county office at 08,12,2009, and to the directorate of FEDAS at 12:01,2010. So the problems remain unresolved. These petitions have been sent to more and more authorities and repeated, over and over again, to explain the problems. In Yayladere district, our people are doing a lot of civic homework. However, the mindset and bureaucratic barriers have made life a torment to the people of the county. Infrastructure, upper structure, health, ecology and education problems are obvious, and Parliamentary Research must be opened to address these problems of our district and to expose the responsible both person and institutionally. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly As part of Kazakhstan's humanitarian co-ordinatorship, the international youth conference "CIA Member States' Youth Policy: Building the Future Together" is planned in Astana on 7-8 June 2012. The conference is submitted to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, under Article 9 of the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The advisory board has a suggestion that I'm going to have it read and processed, and then I'm going to vote for you. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting held Tuesday (05/06/2012). Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party The agenda has been adopted into the 3rd and 4th ranks of the 262th and 257th amendments in the "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" section, and the order of other tasks is based on this. Until Tuesday, June 05, 2012, when verbal questions were not discussed in the merger on Tuesday (today), and the meeting of the 262-line bill in this merger was completed, On Wednesday (June 6, 2012), until the completion of talks on the 233rd amendment, Until Thursday, June 7, 2012, when the talks were completed until the bill of law number 10 in the merger, The work has been recommended to continue. There is no request for a statement on the Council proposal. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be brought to the agenda, so I will have it read and processed, and then I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My 2/27 Act Proposal is not in the Commission in 45 days, so the Civil Charter is 37. In accordance with the terms of the matter, I respectfully submit to the need to be brought up directly. 24/11/2011 Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt as the bidder. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0052par0507	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge to our citizens who have been harmed by terrorist incidents to pay the cash and pay the monthly commitment. I salute you all. But before that, dear friends, I have something to say about my territory. We have two border doors, one closed, one half open. I call upon the Minister of Commerce and Customs, Posof, to import wheat from our door, to be brought by train from Azerbaijan, to make it difficult for the trucks to get out of the Posof gate, and I ask that they make it easy. Two, there was an agreement between the Crazy Aktaş Gate and the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, but there was still no study of that door. I don't know why the work hasn't started, and we're hearing that there's a problem with the time, and I want them to do it as soon as possible and open these doors to the development of that area, and I'm begging you. Dear friends, on November 3rd, 1980, the Law on Transparency and Monthly Compensation 2330 has been issued, Article 2 of the Article 2... and our citizens who have been harmed for terrorism are not compensated, they are not bound by the month. Events happen in major cities, especially every day, and every day, our innocent citizen dies or is injured. They need to be taken into the family of martyrs, both on a salary and on a cash settlement. This is as it was in Uludere. Second, we have soldiers in the army who were killed during the watch, during the training, during the exercise. These soldiers are not martyrs, and their families are devastated. They can't be a family of martyrs, they can't be a family of martyrs, they can't get cash compensation, they can't get cash compensation, they can't get monthly commitments. Therefore, I beg that the children who are martyrs, our children, who died during the watch or died during the exercise or died during the training, are our children, and they should be considered martyrs. As the Republican People's Party, we've proposed this law, we're asking you, we're asking the Grand National Assembly and we're asking all party groups to accept it. That's our common denominator, guys. If all citizens of the Republic of Turkey are equal, then all of our soldiers who are in the army are equal, so our soldiers who are on guard are not dying, they're not martyrs, but the soldiers who died in the fight against terrorism, then there's a difference here. I want the Chief of Staff to take care of it. In that sense, I beg you, when he's on watch, we demand that our soldiers who died during the exercise and training be considered martyrs, both cash and monthly commitments. In that sense, we didn't create terror, friends. The Justice and Development Party has been in power for ten years. Those who have died in terror for ten years, the martyrs, are far ahead. Dear friends, mothers cry in Turkey, mothers weep because of the martyrs who have been here for ten years. The solution is the political institution, and the solution is the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Tomorrow, Mr. President will meet with the Prime Minister. This problem is Turkey's number one problem, and its number two problem is unemployment. With the contribution of the Prime Minister and other parties to this problem, I hope, as a whole, that the solution to the Kurdish problem will be resolved within the framework of Turkey's indivisible integrity, and I ask that this law be accepted, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0053par0518	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0054par0522	Thank you. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Yes, I have made a promise that Mr. Ensar Öğümük, our Ardahan MP, will be brought up on the agenda. Before I begin my remarks, today I celebrate World Environment Day, and I pray that the government, in particular, will not turn the green areas of Istanbul, water basins into rantas. At the same time, I offer my condolences to God and to his family and to the Turkish nation who died in a mine explosion. Again, US Secretary of State Mr. Clinton continued his journey to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, while, as you know, five Azerbaijan soldiers were killed by an attack on a checkpoint at the border by the invading Armenian soldiers. I remember them with mercy, and I wish that the government would review the protocol of Armenia once again and not bring it into the agenda of this great Assembly. My dear friends -- Mr. Öğur -- have mentioned -- as you know, social events have been happening in major cities, especially recently, in various public transportation vehicles, private vehicles, workplace attacks, and people who have been injured, injured, lost their lives in these attacks, according to the current legislation, are not under the Law. So, you know, we had a young brother who died last year, burned to death by a Molotov cocktail, who, for example, wasn't considered a martyr, but was killed by a terrorist attack. These people, according to the current legislation, can sue the administration court against the Ministry of Internal Affairs for damages, but it's not appropriate for people to be dragged through court doors with this kind of damage. Therefore, if this proposal from Mr. ÖmütEST is raised and discussed, those who have been injured, injured, and lost their lives in acts of terrorism will be included in the Law and will be compensated for their harm by our government, by our government, by our state. Again, according to current legislation, neither our people nor our soldiers, who were injured during the military service, except in the fight against terrorism, such as shifts, exercises, deployment, maneuvers, and so on. However, in our tradition, you know that people send their children into the army with their hands condemned, and we think that when they lose their lives, even in training, even in the exercise, because of such an incident occurred during their homeland debt, they must take advantage of the Law on the fact that they are martyrs and wounded people are accepted as veterans, and that they should also take advantage of the Veterans and Monthly bonding. I hope this bill will be put on the agenda with your votes today, and it will be recorded in order, and when the time comes, it will come out with your votes, so that our citizens will be eliminated. I'd like to extend my sincerest regards to all of you, assuming you'll vote properly, and thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit01spe0055par0532	Thank you, Mr. Original. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and move on to the part of the agenda. Hatay MP Mehmet Öğurk has been nominated for 1 membership in the Justice and Development Party Group, which is empty in the Public Economic Initiative Commission. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, we begin the election for five empty members in the court, which are part of this section. This election will be held under a secret vote according to the 15th and 16th and 150th provisions of the Law on the Court of Law 6085. Members of the Court of Justice established by the Plan and Budget Commission have been printed by the Pre-election Temporary Commission, which includes candidates appointed as part of the quota groups, twice as many empty memberships for the Court's membership. (x) 260 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The three candidates who received the most votes from the Court's profession group will be selected to be members of the Court, as well as the two candidates who received the most votes from the quota group list. I propose what the vote would be: To avoid any hesitation, the clerk will mark the name of the MP, including Zonguldak, from the members of the commission and the government, from Adana to Istanbul, from Istanbul to Istanbul, and from the clerk during the government to Izmir, and from Zonguldak to Zonguldak, and give him a sealed ballot and an envelope. The MPs won't vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The member, who has his name marked in the name book and sealed joint ballot, will mark the square against the three candidates of the Court's professional groups with a cross sign and place the ballot in the ballot in front of the Presidential Court bench. In the event of multiple ballots in the same envelope, all of these ballots will be invalidated, including ballots marked by more than three candidates from the Court's list of professions and ballots marked by more than two candidates from the quota group list. These issues are clearly stated in the joint ballots as footnotes. I'm going to draw a name for the count and transcript of the vote and I'm going to identify a five-man commission: Leyla Zana, Diyarbakır? No. Hussein Cemal Akin, Malatya? No. Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara? No. Tülay Kaynarca, Istanbul? Here. Ismail Tamer, Kayseri? Here. Ayla Akat Ata, Batman? No. Faruk Septioğlu, Elaziğ? No. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul? No. Born Dawn, Niğde? No. Engin Özkoch, Sakarya? No. First Encesous, Aksaray? No. Ugur Flagtutan, Artvin? No. Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? No. Omar Suha Aldan, Mudla? No. Shamil Tayyar, Gaziantep? No. Sermin Fish, Elazig? No. Ilhan İlikaya, Konya? Here. Mehmet Ersoy, Sinop? Here. Sumerian Oral, Manisa? No. Erdal Shield, Izmir? No. Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh, İstanbul? Here. Clerk members, please take your seats. Now, we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? I don't think so. The voting process is complete. Voters away, please. Members of the commission of the department, whose names I've read before, please take their seats. I read again the members of the draft commission: İstanbul, Tülay Kaynarca; Kayseri, İsmail Tamer; Kolya, İlhan İnlikaya; Sinop, Mehmet Ersoy; İstanbul, Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, I have a report from the Commission for Accounts on the election for the five empty memberships found in the Court: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 361 members have participated in the election for five empty memberships from the candidates appointed in the 260 ranking report, and the distribution of valid votes has been shown below. It's presented with respect. Tülay Kaynarca Ismail Tamer Mehmet Ersoy İlhan İlikaya Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh 1-Idris Cloud 335 votes 2-Mikdat Özkan 258 votes 3-Metin Orhan 242 votes 4-Nevin Atakan 109 votes 5-Levent Happy 89 votes 6- Özcan Reza Yıldız 31 votes 1- Mustafa Ancestors 345 votes 2- Ahmet Zorlar 284 votes 3- Ayhan Erdoğan 67 votes 4-Jacob Aklek 11 votes According to this, members of the Court's professional group, Mr. İdris Bulut, Mikdat Özkan, Metin Orhan, and other colleagues Mustafa Atalas, Ahmet Zorlar, were elected members of the Court. I wish him well. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0055par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 115th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of the Law Bill on İzmir's ExPO Area, and the Commission's Report on Development, Development, Transport and Tourism. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 262 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu will speak on the whole bill. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] (x) 262 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0056par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the proposed Law Bill 262 rows. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, this bill we have discussed has recently been discussed in the relevant Commission and has been reduced to our General Assembly with some changes. I'd like to brief you on the EXPO process at the beginning of my speech. EXPO, one of the world's oldest and perhaps most international events, is one of the largest events, or the world's exhibition, which is held every five years and continues for about six months. Among them are international organisations, states, NGOs and companies. The EXPO, unlike others, includes projects such as ideas and ideas, cultures and the future of the world, not products. Here's the biggest difference. The Office of International Exhibitions organises the EXPO. It has its own organization and is often represented there at the ambassador level of each country, and a country around 157 is now a member of the BIE, which is now known as the BIE. The most important feature of EXPO is the theme. Each EXPO (exPO) has a theme and is run on this theme. Our province of Antalya recently earned the right to arrange an EXPO for the flower and is currently under way. They have a wide range of themes, issues that should concern all mankind, and at the same time have to carry a universal quality. The size of the EXPO fields is limitless, and there are no restrictions. We're going to see the provisions for the organisation of these areas in our already betting bill, and the participants have the right to build their own place. A hundred and sixty years of arrangement, a long-standing arrangement. As I've just stated, it's a very old-fashioned institution, but one of its most important features is that it makes the cities that have been edited into brands, and soon these cities take the lead at the point of becoming a world city and becoming more habitable. In 1992, Izmir Fairistical Corporation applied to the Foreign Ministry for the ExPO (exPO) in 2000, but no results were received. I remind you of a very old first application. After a while, our country joined the International Office of Exhibitions in 2004 as a result of the participation and coercion of all social elements of the city of Izmir. We have recently lived together with NGOs in İzmir, local and central executives, and the National Movement Party, with all its elements, with its local executives and lawmakers, has been at the point of contributing to the process. At the same time, we proposed a law, which was adopted during the last term -- again with other lawmakers -- in order for EXPO 2015 to gain legal identity for the Izmir Guidance Board. Meanwhile, all Izmir MPs from the National Movement Party were also asked to help at that time and at this time in the parliamentary groups of Turkish Parliament, to write a letter to the countries who belong to this BIE, and also to help them in the area of lobbying. Again, as MPs for the National Movement Party, we have prepared a law proposal in Turkey's Grand National Assembly regarding the health science university, which, unfortunately, did not come as far as the General Assembly recently and unfortunately during this period, is waiting for commissions. With this offer, a health sciences university will be established, and right next to that will be valued lawmakers, including the creation of a health-related area of organised industry in our country for the first time in the pharmaceutical industry and so on, from the production of medical products. Of course, in this case, if these proposals are legalized, both the winner will be Izmir and then the Turkish economy will have won. Our party's local-based agencies -- I just told you -- continue to contribute and volunteer to the EXPO process of İzmir. We now live once again for EXPO 2020, valued lawmakers, about the process of running for EXPO of the lzmir (Izmir) that we lived in at the time. The main issue, however, is whether Izmir is ready to run at this point. What we mean here, of course, is not whether the city of Izmir suits it or not, there's no doubt about it, but when we look at it as institutional and collaborative, I don't think it's right to fit the candidacy process just by looking at the legal arrangements related to EXPO. Because we've seen recently that there's also a problem with coordination with EXPO. We also see that the EXPO administration can't coordinate between each other, that it can't contribute enough to the process. Some local executives who were already on that committee left in the past. We also want the EXPO administration to be more sharer, transparent and contributor because what decisions are being made here, what direction is being made, in fact, we're not very informed. If this happens, success will be all of our successes, and there will be a contribution, because we need to think of Izmir as a city where if he sees a lot of necessary support from agriculture to tourism, industry to the energy sector, we need to think of it as the best possible outcome. In this project, which will be riveted as an Izmirian city, the EXPO 2020 process, all authorities must give full support to both the local government and the central administration. Again, as I just said, we will continue to support the city of Izmir with all our strength as the National Movement Party, as we were in the previous candidacy process. The city of Izmir also has some features, it has a cradle to many civilizations, it has historical, cultural savings, but at some point we see it plays a leading role in economic, social and cultural life, in Turkey's geography. When we look at Izmir economically today, we also see that it represents 15.5 per cent of the total added value, that it provides 9.7 per cent of the employment, and that there is a serious economic power in exports that exceeds $6 billion. There's a 95 percent tax collection rate. It's too high to even approach in many of our cities, I'm afraid. On the other hand, Izmir has attracted about 1,500 foreign-investment companies and investors and has proven himself to be a city with a serious capacity in that sense. There are 3.3 million populations in 2000, and when we come to these days, it's close to a population of 4 million, and it has serious population potential, but on the other hand, it has a rate of population increase above the average of Turkey. While a 14.5 per cent different population average is running across Turkey, we are facing an 18.8 percent rate in the province of Izmir. It also shows that the city has also taken migration, caused a rapid population growth, and there have been some problems in business, economic life. Now, when we look at these figures on Izmir, we see that İzmir has not been able to see the interest expected from the government, the central administration. When we look at it like this, we need to look at the investments compared to the tax collection, so Izmir has spent about four years in the province of Izmir. That's a big difference. When we look at it this way, we also think that Izmir would have had to get more from the state than from public investments. Today it appears to be the third largest city, Izmir, but the total export share of Bursa is higher than the total export share of Izmir. The share of the province of Kopeeli in industrial exports is also higher than the export share of İzmir Province. When we look at it like this, indeed, at some points, we are dealing with both legislation and government practices that prevent Izmir (Izmir) from attacking. It's a city that has been giving us a lot of foreign trade before 2003, but in the last five years, when we look at it, there's also an external trade deficit in Izmir, just like in Turkey. Now, we're talking about rich natural, historical, cultural beings, and these are important features when we examine them in some way. In Turkey's most advanced province, there is no obstacle for Izmir, which is at the potential point I've just counted. So what needs to be done is the public to be a pioneer, the public to be a locomotive, and remove obstacles in front of İzmir. Today, the central government's share is 2.8 per cent in 2002; today it's 1.4 precious friends. So what's this? We're facing a 55 percent difference, 100 lira investment down to 55 lira. It's an important loss. That's what we want to say. You're trying to get the EXPO, but on the other hand, publicly, you don't stand behind the city of Izmir enough. I also wanted to question this situation with the questions I've submitted to 12 executive ministers in the Turkish Grand National Assembly this year, but it's very interesting, we haven't been able to answer these written questions from almost any ministry so far, precious MPs. This is, unfortunately, one of the most important bleeding wounds of all lawmakers, both in the past and in this legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At the government's execution point, lawmakers need to be taken seriously or spoken question motions and answered as soon as possible. I wish to bring you another study and inform you, dear MPs. Within January, a foreign institution conducted research and compared the 200 metropolitan cities, including İzmir. In terms of income per capita, Izmir is the 181st place between 200 metropolitan cities. There's almost 10 times the difference between a city that has the highest category and a city that can be compared to itself. Such a city, for example the city of Hartford in the United States, has a revenue of $76,000 a year, $8,600 a year. There's also a difference that's coming up 10 times as close as we can get. Our rate of increase in employment as Izmir was 9.3 percent during 2009-2010, while in 2010-2011, it declined 3.6 points and fell to 5.6, so its employment capacity was increasingly reduced, and by this figure, it was the 196th place between these 200 cities. Now, what we intend to say is that the decisions made regarding Izmir (Izmir) seem to have prevented İzmir (Izmir) from making further progress. For example, recent decisions on the future option market, for example, are a serious problem in the recent incentive package, where Izmir and similar provinces are unfortunately unable to compete with neighbouring provinces. When we take a closer look at this, you can see very closely the unfair competition of these neighboring provinces. This is not just the problem of Izmir. This is one of the problems facing many of the provinces represented by many of our MPs in the General Assembly. It's true to give organised industrial areas an incentive for the lower region, but it's a poor incentive, valued lawmakers. If our intention is to encourage organised industrial areas in a regular and adequate way -- which is the law, then all investments in the OSBs must be encouraged from the lowest level. We're detecting 70 percent of the cari deficit is energy importing, but on the other hand, when we look at it, we don't see enough and necessary energy support in this package of incentives. Although the addition of strategic investment titles reduces the amount of large-scale investments, the incentives for the SME are unfortunately limited. Again, the fact that health tourism, which is important in the EXPO 2020 process, is not considered strategic investment, is also a serious lack of value, lawmakers, because we -- I just said -- we set the theme of this EXPO as health. When we look at an unemployment rate that goes on a 10% bandage, I'm afraid it's also a huge lack of special incentives to be limited to the 6th district. To illustrate: 12 members who are registered in the Aegean Region Industry Chamber and employ 1,200 people left their rooms and went to Manisa (now) and invest in Manisa. Again, four companies will complete their preparations, and within the next term, they will invest there by buying land from the Manisa Organised Industrial Zone. This, I just told you, is one of the most important things that will happen to our other cities if you can't organize the unfair competition between cities, if you can't take the necessary measures. It is important that public-run RD support of innovation problems and projects within the minimum amount of investment in Izmir, with no difference in the region, and it needs to be used in a maximum way by the SME system, which will boost the competitiveness of our Izmir entrepreneurs, the high investments that will cover the technology and the R&D deficit, and those who will encourage their RD. Dear lawmakers, this part of the industry is also important in agricultural matters or in areas concerned with agriculture and rural areas. Look, we passed a law called Law 2/B very recently, and as opposition lawmakers here, we struggled at the point where this law was more complete and more accurate; we made a lot of motions, we criticised it, but unfortunately, since it was not considered, there are serious problems with the 2/B Law. There are problems with all the villages and villagers we've been talking about, and we've been talking about 2/B over the past term. Considering that, the peasant's unfair condition needs to be corrected immediately. Dear lawmakers, big teams prepare big projects, there's no doubt about it. Of course, I know everyone believes in this determination, but the deployment of this team is also important. I've just told you, the current EXPO administration's disagreements are unfortunately unconfirmed; they have to have a sense of duty, everyone has to carry out their responsibility. Until now, many people have determined a vision of many institutions; from the city of exhibitions, exhibitions to the city of Izmir, industry, tourism, even agriculture, but İzmir is a brand and vision. I'm afraid that quality has not been brought to light, has not been brought to light. Its potential at the point of historical, cultural riches or of becoming a world city is the result of Smyrna's co-operation with his opposition here, all together, and that's how this vision is achieved and behind it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at this point, I wish this bill well. Hopefully, I think the shortcomings should be met with the motions to be made. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0057par0055	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0058par0059	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yes, 262, I will explain the views of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Izmir EXPO. We are from Izmir today because we have given support when the law has been passed, our files, our talks, our documents, but we have also expressed our concerns, and Izmir EXPO is much more important today than when his opponents are announced. If you've chosen health contact, you'll be questioned about this theme, my friends. It's a fact. Now, what I want to say from here is, why did Milan get a few votes, 21 votes? Have you ever questioned him? I think he needs to be questioned. The number of volunteers in this campaign in Milan was 20 times greater than those in Turkey. Did you guys go to colleges? You've added civil society? You've joined the local authorities? You've joined environmental organizations? You put in the Medical Room? You've joined the foundation of private hospitals? When you make a health contact, everything about health comes in front of you, it's a matter of objection. Today is World Environment Day, friends. It's actually very, very important that it coincides with Earth's Environment Day. When you talk about health problems in Izmir, you have to tell about Efemchukuru, where the water comes from. Your opponents will question what the spill of cyanide from the mines has added to the health of Izmir. What do you say? He brings out gold in the mines, and let the Izmirites die. Is that gonna be your health criteria? We have to question that. It's environmental day. In two ways: one, in terms of competitiveness, and on this. I'd like to offer you an interesting pair of pants. I think these domes are very important on this Day of Environment. I'll talk to him from Bergama, the beautiful district of İzmir. How are you going to go out and introduce Bergama? You will say, "Izmir is a candidate with a medical certificate." How would you like to introduce him? If you would like to show them that the Allianoi, which you have flooded, is the ancient healing center, let them go. Have your opponents take a look at it. Don't you guys want to know how you flooded this ancient healing center, the first historic geothermal treatment center? For God's sake, ask yourself, I mean, as a competition, I don't mean that. You'll choose health contact, you'll take it out in health contact, and Izmir and Izmir will lose by 21 votes. Izmir put in a lot of effort for the 2020 EXPO competition; he lost by 21 votes in good, incomplete, bad efforts. As if it weren't enough, you'd take Ankara out and make a rival, make an effort. What mentality is that, my friends? You've made Ankara a rival. You've turned Ankara against Izmir. For God's sake, there's something called "International International Fair" in this country, from your childhood, from your babyhood, from all the films of the Turkish white screen to our time. So she wants to take Ankara out and do the Melih Gökçek EXPO Fair in Ankara. Do it, brother, there's a ton of fairs going on. No fair? You can have any fair you want. Look, there are some great fairs; do we know anything about Congress? The speaker has just announced that the Botany EXPO Fair in Antalya will be held in 2016. It's done; it's decided, everybody's working. Antalya is one of the most beautiful cities in Turkey; not just sand, not the sea. Antalya is also a brand, a world brand, a geographical brand in the agricultural industry, production, botany, in each area. Now, this is going to be done in 2016, and it's decided that the Botany EXPO has no law, my friends. Have you seen too much of a law, Antalya? It's been decided, it's decided. That botanical garden will compete with the gardens of the Netherlands, and only the manufacturer in Antalya, the worker in Antalya, the employer in Antalya, the people in Antalya, Antalya, the people in Antalya, the people in Antalya, themselves, are doing their job. That'll be $3 billion, fellas. There are three relevant ministries. Mr. Mehdi Eker, you're not going to plant in Antalya. We understand, at least be supportive. Look, it's one of the relevant ministries. You don't plant anything for Botanical EXPO in Antalya, you don't make laws, at least support them. Mr. Calayan, it's clear you're not in Antalya, there's no law, let Antalya have a beautiful waterfall, let it be a beautiful age, isn't it? It's also about transportation. Mr. Buli Yıldırım, I swear, it's not like lightning. It's about breaking the law. So now, three ministries, now, a city this beautiful, we have, the decision has been made, to whom do you sacrifice Antalya, my friends? Do you have the right to crush the Antalyas between power and the main opposition? If you crush the Antalyas, you will crush Izmir. What do you do to crush Izmir? Before Izmir, you take Ankara first.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0059par0067	We don't crush and we don't crush.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0058par0068	Lion Malatian. That's good solidarity.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0060par0069	Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0058par0070	Now, as Istanbul MP today, I want him to be an Izmir MP.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0061par0071	I said we, we...
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0058par0072	Now, let's see our competitors in EXPO -- this is a lightweight -- in EXPO. This is your House, your government... now, four competitors. Look, against Izmir, it was Milan, it was Milan, it was Milan, it really was Milan, it was Sarkozy in Paris, it was Berlusconi in Italy, we had the same Prime Minister. Now that we have the same Prime Minister, Berlusconi is gone, Sarkozy is gone; what will be the fate of İzmir? This will be done in Paris. The city of Ayutthaya of Thailand -- Tayland, Far East, look, look -- the city of Sao Paulo of Brazil -- look, pay attention, friends of the world's great 8th economy -- is the city of Yekaterinburg of Russia and Dubai of the United Arab Emirates. Now, you can't join the EXPO by making law here. In İzmir, they will ask: Why do your inspectors dive into İzmir's Metropolitan Municipality? Are these municipalities the gang the people chose? What's he doing in private court? Won't they ask? ▪ Won't they ask why the workers here are being brought in? He'll ask. This is competition, friends, competition. Why don't your local governments, local representatives, local voters ask why this is not the determinator of the EXPO? What is it with you and the government? Why do they not ask, "Why is there a voice separate from the government, but not from the local authorities?" Don't they ask you about Gediz Plain? Why is the gurney running dirty? The Gediz floweth uncleanly, and the poison floweth, and it floweth as a youth. Why, don't they ask you, friends, which queen did you hand over the mine at the Turgutlu? Will they not ask you about your health, and the health of the Aegean, and the figs of the Aegean, and the pomegranates, and the olives, and leave your roka, and leave your fish, and leave your fine air, and your sea? Aren't they going to call this polluted nature, the environment, history, culture, you, your health? Today, World Environment Day, on this day of the environment, we will speak to you properly and they will ask you: "What do you think about abortion today? " Don't they ask: "How much do you value human life? " Don't they ask you in prison... a new big prison, type F? How will the health of prisoners, prisoners in prison, in this system, in this escrow, in this chain, be provided for by human rights organizations? Don't they ask you, friends, that the mercury, the zinc, that was closed in Manisa, still kills people? When choosing health contact, you should have chosen something that was not wise. You've got universities; you've got seven universities; you've got 120,000 college students in Izmir, just around Bornova. What about the dynamics of this university, the dynamics of this youth? To introduce this country, don't they ask you, "What artist, which historian, which economist, which person did you include in the introduction? It's a bit of a conscience, you guys! It's tearing you apart. Why do you think alone when you are doing everything you can to sacrifice Izmir? Why do you decide by yourself? Why do you say I would do it alone? It's really hard to understand. Yes, in the past period, new ways for a better world and health for everyone was our previous theme. What have we done now: health again. Health again... look, EXPO has won Paris the Eiffel, what will it bring to me in your memory? Are you going to set up the Amazon statue, tell me, what are you going to put in it? So you want to build a creative idea like Eiffel, or a monument to the ruins of the Kurdish families, the people, where you destroyed their homes in velvet? What could be the greatest peak of EXPO 2020, the largest peak of the velvete Izmir, and its greatest work? Mentally speaking, it could be a prison, it could be a mosque, it could be something like that. Do you guys have any ideas? What we're going to do to Izmir is that it's going to be a brand... that gave the Eiffel Tower EXPO to Paris, to London, to a crystal palace. In the 1800s, in London, the crystal... We passed it, and now, the French celebrated the 100th year of the French Revolution, they said equality, freedom, justice. What do you have to say? What in God's name are you going to say? We privatized health, we commercialized, we connected their money, all of them to private hospitals of our own followers. We contaminated the water, gave it to the miners. We've ruined the weather, we've contaminated the seas. Whoever comes here will be extinct like the Amazons, and you will say, "Come and see." The government's ten-year execution will be questioned one by one at the EXPO, so we would like to see Izmir run and win, my friends. That's what we want, so he can be questioned. What will you do with the figurine? We want you to be released on the cable cars of Balçova. Where are those trees? You've made Balçova a dry hill. They'll say. When you're building the roads, the tunnels, the history of ancient Izmir. What digs have you struck into the culture of the ancient Izmir? They're going to dig it out one by one. It says in this law: "We will revive the tourism. " Do you know that even the artichokes have changed color, the artichokes that grow in the fountain? They used to have golden clear colors. After this pollution, pay close attention to artichokes. You'll pay attention to these, if they're healthy, they're healthy. It's not easy to come out here and talk. Do you have the heart of Barcelona? When you say, like Barcelona, the EXPO, Spain, Barcelona, and the Barcelona, I secretly love them with my Catalans. I'm a bit of a Catalan guy.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0062par0080	Love me openly.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0058par0081	How well they introduced Spain in Barcelona. Not just the Catalans, but Barcelona, but the whole of Spain; not just in football, but also at the fair. Or are we going to rebook the old Turkish films at the Izmir Fair and introduce them through these Turkish films? Do we think about how we're going to introduce Turkey and what it's going to gain? Now, let it be work for 58,500 people. 40-50 million visitors. Okay. E, my brother, is already going to Ephesus, he is already going to the slow city of Seferihisar, he is already going to the Bergama, the Dikili. Izmir is history all around, sea all around, sun all around, sand all around. The poplars of Izmir were not spoken in vain, when the Sea of Ege went dark. The song was not sung in vain, my friends. When the Sea of Ege darkens, it is the focus of the songs spoken for the imperial and commercial interests. The Izmirite also has a spirit vein like this; it's a liberal spirit vein, actually, in the spirit of rebellion. Here, if it is integrated with the people of Izmir, it will be something worthy of the EXPO Izmir. For an EXPO worthy of Izmir, of course, we will all support and express our concerns as Parliament. It's public business, not government business, guys. This is a job for all different parties, opinions, civil society, not government. It's not about running the business, it's about the living, it's about the judicial, it's about the local government, it's about the taxi driver, it's about the grape maker, it's about the fisherman who brings out the squid from under the stones. When we realize that, we'll achieve great things in this country. When we don't realize it, we ruin a sack of figs in figs. You'll ruin the figurine, you'll ruin the project, you'll ruin the architecture. I'd like to finish my last words -- I don't know, on this environmental day -- with the Indian chief's Environmental Manifesto, but one sentence, briefly: every part of this land is sacred to my people. The glowing stings of pine trees, buzzing insects, white beach shores, the fog covering dark forests and meadows in the morning is part of our people's memories and hundreds of years of experiments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And at the end of his warning: "If you try to eat your money one day, it will be too late." That was said in the 1800s. Now, in this beautiful country, this beautiful slogan on the day of the environment, you have chosen this beautiful land, and I admire you. Yes, the EXPO 2020 lzmir will question health until the end, but the health workers will stand in front of those who walk in the square of Kızılay with a gas bomb. In front of the rivers of the Black Sea, as Grandma of Tortum said: "There are no police or police on the bridge of Sarat, we will meet on the other side." And in the Kaz Mountains and Butler, look, our hearts will all be together in Munzur, and in Hasankeyf. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0063par0091	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Mustafa Moroglu. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0064par0095	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to convey the Republican People's Party Group's views on the draft law on the area of Izmir EXPO. On behalf of both the Republican People's Party Group and on behalf of the People's Party, and on behalf of the people of Balcova, who have spent many years trying to solve their own problems, I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yeah, we got an EXPO bill. We will support this bill, not with the belief that it will solve many of the problems that Balçova, Figurtund and Gardens, but also with the belief that Izwar, Balçova, Narlıdere, and Bellabahce. We're new deputies, we've been on duty for a year. Many, many of our friends who have been MPs for the past three semesters may have seen it as a culture, but what I've been missing since I arrived is that I've been talking about what's being said here, and I've been talking about something other than the law bill, and I've been thinking about how to make an effort to just get it into the minutes, but then I want to do things that need to be done on the outside of what you say, but if you want to do things that need to be done outside of the law, then there's a tradition, a culture, and that's what I want to do, and that's what's what's going on here, and that's what's what's going on, and that's what's what's what's going on, and what's what's going on in the group's going on here, and what's what's what's going on here, and what's what's going on what's going to think about what's going on here, if I don's going to do a task of what's going to do it, and what's going on in here, and what's going on here, if I's going to do work here, and what's going to do a task here, and what's going to do Iz Izmir EX, and I's going on here, and what's going to do it's going to do it's going to do it's going to do it's going to do it's going on the other side, and I don's going on, and I's going to do after I's going on the other way. I salute you all again on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, hoping that this will be one of the cultures that we should have just acquired. In fact, we're also discussing a problem that has been under way since 1989 and has been widely debated in İzmir, but unfortunately, again populism has not been done so far because of political concerns, because of behaviors that do not suit Izmir (Izmir) and reject participation. This problem is the problem of the development of the Incircum, the intergarden. In fact, this EXPO issue is a bill that will provide this zoning arrangement that it's been waiting for for for years. So let's just do it in this area of Izmir. It's not the law, it's also the law of how to build the Ingredult and the Intergarden. This matter has been discussed since 1989. Yes, the figurine is one of the lungs of Izmir, intergarden, one of the most important places. In particular, with our mayor's efforts over the past two semesters, he's been slightly prevented from creating a 1,250-acre city forest and losing his ability to become a lung, but with villas that are not zoning there, it's become very difficult to immediately solve the problem of the development and the increase of the green area with a number of unlicensed wedding halls. Because there could not be agriculture, nor could it be done regularly, nor could it be chosen in a regular development or EXPO, as it was in the field of health, as it was in the field of tourism, the rights of the people, the rights of the rights of the rights of the people there have been established. Yes, this law is important in that way, and the Republican People's Party, as a party that wants to make a big deal out of the EXPO, wants Izmir to contribute to all of our values in both economic and cultural areas, as well as to solve this development problem in favor of both citizens and Izwark. Because we've made a lot of efforts to keep Izmir's lungs in the lung, but a business issue has not been very interested in this until a fairground issue has arrived, but since 2004, this problem must be resolved. The cause of its failure is not the Ministry of Culture, nor the City of Balçova, nor the people of the city of İzmir, nor the heads of all the rooms who want to participate in this matter, but our room managers. There was no conclusion at the point when this matter was resolved around a table. And we're happy that with this law and the efforts we've made before, this will come to an end. Yes, as for the Incubator of the EXPO issue: Once, as the people of Izmir and as the Republican People's Party as Balcovars, we are happy that the EXPO area is defined as Izmir, but this is not something new. The 2015 EXPO was also designated for Izmir, and some studies were carried out for the 2015 EXPO. Our fellow speakers here, speaking on behalf of the MHP Group, our friend, speaking on behalf of the BDP Group, has made specific statements in terms of the historical and benefits of EXPO, economics, politics, cultural contributions, not to mention, but for the second time, if he is running for EXPO, Izmir, I want to tell you what is the reason why you failed earlier, and what is the reason why you didn't win, and the actors there have to take advantage of the staff. So why we lost 2015, I wasn't an officer in that process, but I have some very good friends that I know as officers; the mayor of Seferihisar -- right now the mayor -- there's Bronze Soyar -- many of my friends who participated in the EXPO process -- have taken advantage of their knowledge, their savings -- and there's been a lot of things that have been done to weaken and crash the EXPO process. What's been done? Now, what everyone agrees to, EXPO, is that you're opening up to the world for a project that has a lot of benefits to the city after it's finished, not all of you and the Prime Minister, the President, the ministers, the mayors, but some of the practices that will harm the process. We also have the same concern that if this is not inefficiency, if it is not intentional, we will look at the mistakes needed to be made in order to prevent it from being taken into İzmir. What's been done? Everyone submits: It is remembered in the cities of EXPO, not in their countries, not in their governments, but in the names of cities, and it is viewed as a project of the locals, and everyone acknowledges that it is looked at like this all over the world. Well, then, shouldn't this be run by the local, the city's name, the EXPO, with all the locals, and led by the mayor of the great city of the local city? Yeah. Well, he was very modest, the project that mattered. He said, "It's not important that the governor, under the leadership of the minister, walks under me." He said, "It's important that he does not speak; let him walk well; let him walk well, but you did something else: you judged the president of the city who was running for EXPO as the head of the gang in the illegal court -- I don't say it's important -- I don't say it's important -- the head of the gang! Head of the gang! Where? Smyrna. Where? The mayor of the city. You're gonna fix this first. So you're saying this is an intervention in the judiciary... no, we're not. I mean, should we turn against us and interfere with the judgment? Don't say that, we've never had such a request. On the contrary, this has come to pass because you interfered with the judiciary. The D.A. made it this way, explaining the indictments page by page. 300 defendants in a trial... it's probably got the Minister of Justice, the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, it's got inspectors, it's got the D.A. who's doing the wrong job, even if he's doing the right thing, he's got the authority to determine his M.O. and make sure he doesn't harm this EXPO process. On top of that, you're doing another operation on November 22nd, on the day of the presentation. The mayor of the city is out for an EXPO presentation. He settles in the evening, gives presentations... Are you going to say something, Mr. Aydın? Are you going to apologize?
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0065par0103	You're excited.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0064par0104	I'm not excited, I'm excited when I need to be, I'm calm when I need to be. I'm sure Congress has registered my calm by now. It's a matter of all the MPs of Izmir. It's also going to be called Aydın Sengül. He's going to say İlknur Denizli, Tekeleoğlu, we'll say all of us. So why is it happening, why isn't it happening? A government that wants EXPO will unite the parties once and for all, solve this problem. Whoever's doing it is gonna have to look for something. Yes, if the special prosecutor is doing it, there is a special authority. That's not gonna happen! For him, the EXPO law must solve the zoning issue, the problems of citizens, the Izmir for EXPO is a good place, let's all support it. But we all have work to do. For one thing, there's one thing that everyone who runs the whole EXPO thing, who believes in the project, is united, and Izmir will believe it first. So everyone who goes abroad, everyone who comes from abroad will know that Izmir's people, Izmir's NGOs, believe in this work and that Izmir is asking for it. Does he know? He doesn't know. I don't know. No one, the head of this Council, gathered 25 of the Izmir MPs -- one inside -- and said, "What are we going to do about EXPO?" If anyone says so, say so here. He didn't tell the MPs, so he didn't tell the MPs who voted for 2,600,000 voters, and it's been going on for a year. Has he assembled the NGOs? He didn't. He put up ads, did he tell the public anything? We'll get to that velvet thing soon, if Mr. Hasip is here. Did he tell you about the velvet? Did she tell you what she's going to get out of this when this EXPO arrives? Yes, doctors, health is the theme of this. Izmir will be a city of health, tourism. How can we do so? Did he say so? He didn't. What did you do? You've formed a board of 12, 13, 15 people I don't even know the number of, you've boarded a plane, you've gone there, you've sent the mayor back. Now, you don't win EXPO just by making the law. Well, three of your board members have resigned. These three aren't just any three people, so I'm talking about this, so let's get back to the beginning: talking about it, making a bonus here, not going to the transcripts, but doing a mission for all of us. Which I did, and I'm gonna keep doing it when I'm gone. We'll continue to do so with the AKP MPs here. We first heard about these resignations, and we said, "Mr Governor - President of the Kurul" -- we've known these friends for years, one of them is the President of the VOB, one is the President of our Industrial Chamber, one is the former President of the Football Federation that you made President of the Football Federation, and then you sent him back. We know how they do business, we know their morals, the Izmirite trusts them. Why did they get up and quit? Don't do this, don't hurt the EXPO process. What we want here is to talk to them, to resolve their problems, to allow them to be reinstated. What does one do now? He'll call the congressman, call the mayor, or make a statement. One of the most important things about this EXPO is that, my dear friends, this can't be accomplished until these people are involved, their organisations are involved, and they don't believe in it. And for that, you have to be transparent first. I mean, why doesn't he get it? Why can't friends work here? If we get a wound there, the plague will be on all of us. Look, he stays above the government, he stays above the ministers. I'm not saying that he stays above all of us. I say, so that I don't have to carry out this plague, because of the experiments we've had before, let's all get those friends back to work, and let's keep it transparent. Let us go to Izmir, and to Aegean, and to the Mediterranean. The summer season begins, with all the work of a healthy EXPO, whose theme is tourism, from billboards to billboards, from Antalya to Mersin to here. It's got a budget, it's got an institution, what are you waiting for? So if we're gonna do this, call us, and we'll do it. I mean, that's the most important thing we've got here when we take out the EXPO law, my dear friends, and I just wanted to remind you that it's a matter of resignations. It's a good choice for Izmir and its theme is a good one. I think it's a theme that will contribute even more to Izmir, but one of the main things about the EXPO is that because of its economic, political contributions, it's also a peace project, a universal project. It stays open for a hundred and eighty days. All countries, 160 member states, I think, are not just a universal project when it opens, but it's a global project with relationships created before it opens, going and coming, but it's also a peace project, but it's happening... yeah, we all believe that we're going to make significant contributions for Izmir and Turkey, but let's go back to what I said in the first place: no matter what the MP's party is, it's my wish, it's my wish, let's not talk about it without getting information, and then let's get out of here and fix it. I'm saying this for Mr. Hasip. No house was destroyed in velvet. I mean, if we always think we're gonna be convincing when we talk so loud about everything, we're wrong. In velvet, houses were prevented from falling on the heads of the people, and they were not destroyed, and it is the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality; it is neither the TOKİ, nor the Ministry of Public Works. And I say this for this reason, because they also give false information about it; and we built the houses, and the city gave up after that. Many homes were taken out of their homes and given homes because they were in the landslide area. While it was being transformed into a big green area -- a area like 380 acres -- it started restoration studies and excavations that revealed its ancient properties. So I wanted to make it right, where no one's house was destroyed, and homes were kept from falling on their heads. I said this is a peace project. Yes, while the EXPO was being organized in the Incirral Subgarden, there had already been a Judicial Monument for those who had lost their lives in the attack of the State. Hopefully, our municipality of Balçova will also make a peace memorial for both our Metropolitan City and the EXPO Board, which we lost on June 12, 1980, to the young people we lost in the figrilla massacre. We will bring them together, and their families, the figurine, and all the people who oppose persecution. On behalf of my group and on behalf of the people of Izmir, I salute all the Izmirians who want to set a good example in EXPO. Have a good day at work.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0066par0116	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. İzmir MP İlknur Denizli on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Denizli.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0067par0120	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Bill of Law on Izmir EXPO 2020, rank 262. I salute you all. Powerful powers, powerful parliaments don't just talk about today, precious lawmakers, they argue about tomorrow, they plan beyond that, they predict the future. A strong policy is a prediction, an art of vision. To do that, you have to be able to map your way to solve today's fundamental problems. We're working very hard for the future as we negotiate today. We struggle day and night to honor the trust we receive from the people. When we look at the country's agenda, the year 2020 is already being talked about for two reasons because we have the confidence, the excitement and the faith of bringing one of the two major organizations to our country. We are a candidate for the 2020 Olympic Games. Another international organization we're running for is the 2020 European Football Championships. It's the fact that we have the power to do both, that we have the economics, the infrastructure support, the international reputation to want them both. We've done dozens of international organizations in the past year alone. World Women's Tennis Championships, World Hall Athletics Championships, World Wrestling Championships, Women's volleyball Championships, World Chess Championships, European Youth Games, just a few of them. This phase we're coming to is the result of stability in the country. Our country has been growing in stability for years, developing, investing, becoming one of the number of countries in the world, and, of course, it's gained international power, self-confidence, but when we look at them these days, there's another process, another process, going deep, moving in solid steps. We've come a long way to EXPO 2020, and we've come a long way. We, the government, we follow the process with all our care, we do our part meticulously at every step of the way. EXPO is considered the third largest organisation in the world after the World Cup and the Olympics. Participants include states, international organisations, NGOs, companies. So, what's EXPO? EXPO©s are actually some kind of Olympic valuable friends, the world's cultural, history and education Olympics. To make the world a more viable place, countries show their knowledge, ideas, culture, and projects for the future in the EXPO. You can see humanity's social, cultural development from these fairs. For six months, you are home to tens of millions of visitors from all over the world. EXPO©s promote cities to the world, give them dignity. Over the course of a hundred and fifty-six years, the EXPObooks have made their cities a brand and raised their people's life levels. The EXPO (exPO) were born as an opportunity for some countries and were properly evaluated and produced permanent works. There's a long history going back to the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the EXPO. Its foundations were laid in 1851, with an exhibition held at the London Crystal Palace. The complex, also known as Crystal Palace, was a gift to London. The Eiffel Tower, the symbol of Paris, was built in 1889 for the Paris EXPO (exPO), and has been attracting tourists and making revenues for France for over a hundred years. Also, the Atomium in Brussels was made by EXPO. The Vasco da Gama Bridge in Lisbon is another example of these structures, which opened up for the 1998 EXPO. In Sevilla, after EXPO was shut down, the EXPO field was turned into a techno park. Now in this area, 1.7 billion dollars in plus value and 20,000 jobs are available. There are many other examples like this. In fact, we can talk about the glittering effects of the 63 EXPO fairs in 150 years for each of them. Developments in production styles also lead to radical changes in economic and social life as they increase capital savings. Many of the technological innovations that people use today, such as the calculator, television, have been offered to the common use of human beings with the EXPO. Trade among countries has increased rapidly, and countries with surplus have been looking for ways to sell this surplus, to market it. This need also led to the birth of large-scale trade fairs. The same fairs have also created the meeting point for innovations in the form of technology and production that have changed greatly with the industrial revolution. Turkey has not been able to organise an EXPO so far, since we as a country are not members of the BIE, the Office of International Exhibitions. Our country was only accepted as a member of the BIE in 2004 with the power of the EC PARTY. So the way to host the EXPO has been opened. Yes, the 2015 EXPO will be held in Milan. Turkey's and Izwar's goal is to become the 57th and the city that organises EXPO. Our goal is to bring the EXPO (exPO) into our country and to İzmir (Izmir) in 2020. In the process, we have four competitors, four strong rivals: Sao Paulo from Brazil, Ekatarinburg from Russia; United Arab Emirates, Dubai; Thailand, Ayutthaya. We have to work together, together, together, together, together, to get out of our competitors and reach the goal. In comparison with the Olympics and World Cups, the EXPOs are even more spectacular organizations in terms of the size of the area and the volume and number of visitors of the investment, considered the world's largest social and economic activity. Because of his previous candidacy, İzmir has sufficient experience, knowledge and experience, technical equipment, specialized staff, adequate infrastructure. Izmir also has the power to make this organization the best way to make the dream of long years come true, to allow us to leave another living city for generations to come. Now is the time to use this force together and show the world. Izmir, which dates back to 6,500 B.C.E., is the beautiful, meaningful window of the large Anatolian mansion in the west of Turkey. He's admired everyone who's seen him for centuries. As Herod put it, Izmir is the most beautiful climate, the city of the blueest sky. Izmir is the princess of Victor Hugo. Because it was a port city, it has been one of the major trading centers of its territory throughout the ages. At the same time, the fact that he had contact with different cultures adds wealth to Izmir. Izmir is a city used to fairs and international organizations. Turkey's first general trade fair, the Izmir International Fair, has provided an experience of 80 years of fairing. With the marble fair, which is identified with Izmir (Izmir) and has become a brand abroad as of today, from the world's leading residency fairs, Izmir holds about 40 times a year. Izmir took his first major test on major organizations with Mediterranean Games in 1971. The University 2005 event was carried out with great success and was voted the most successful of the college games. Izmir is a city of history and archeology. The city and its environment are equipped with historical and archaeological riches. Ephes, Bergama, Agora, the House of the Virgin Mary, are the best - known examples of the eight thousand and five hundred years of Izmir. Dear MPs, Izmir is the city of peace and tolerance. Izmir will consolidate this mission from history to today with EXPO 2020. Izmir is a city of culture and art. With its thousands of years of tradition, it has become the center of different cultures and arts, hosting many international cultures, art events. It's a geography where aesthetics meet creativity, Izmir. It is an ideal city for making a world fair because of its properties. And given that economic development has begun to flow east, it appears to be a city that responds to the need of time. I also want to talk about the theme we've chosen for 2020 EXPO: one of the most important goals of the nations is to raise the health level of their society. Of course, health is universal, and it concerns everyone. Therefore, Izmir EXPO has chosen new ways for a better world to run for 2020, health for everyone. The EXPO 2020 Izmir theme is not limited to the individual's body and mental health. The concept of health is used in the broadest sense, including public and environmental health. Thanks to tens of millions of visitors from more than 100 kilometers, EXPO 2020 will create an ideal platform for a healthier life in every way, including new technologies. This will enable you to learn about innovative technologies, to form partnerships, and to share universal knowledge with all shareholders in the ExPO 2020 İzmir. With this law, the 240 hectares of EXPO 2020 will also form the world's most advanced health tourist zone. After EXPO 2020 is completed, this area will continue to produce positive values for Izmir and for Turkey. In 2020, the message the world needs will rise from İzmir: new ways for a better world, health for all. Now, our dear friends -- of course Mr. Hasip Kaplan isn't here, but I'd like to correct his assessment of a few issues. For one thing, there are nine universities in Izmir, not seven. I'd like to express it once, in terms of correcting this mistake. Another dimension: I've been in Parliament for a year, and for the first time, I've seen Mr. Kaplan finish a topic without discussing the Kurdish issue. And for that, I congratulate him. I thank him for reminding him that Izmir is also a city in Turkey. This is the first time we've faced such a description because our talks are often referred to as either the Kurdish issue or the cities in the southeast.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0068par0140	People die every day.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0067par0141	And I want to thank him for saying Izmir. I want to let him know.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0068par0142	Doesn't it matter that people die every day?
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0067par0143	Now, an assessment has been made of Antalya's EXPO. Let's fix it if you want to. The arrangement for the EXPO (ExPO) will now be in our Council of Ministers, and will be in our General Assembly in the coming days. We will have completed the arrangements for Antalya's EXPO, as we have made the arrangements for the İzmir EXPO. By the way, now that Izmir is able to receive what he has given, there is an assessment of our beloved Regent who gives four to Izmir, who takes one. I'm not saying this as a politician today, I was the head of an NGO before this, I was the head of an NGO in the business world, and I've always done the same assessment, and I'm saying the same thing today: there's no such thing as taking all of what a city produces. What we need to do is this: If Hakkari does not produce at all, if Artvin produces very little, you will not build a dam there, you will not take the road there, so if he is producing it, you will only spend it to Bigeli, and İzmir only to Izmir. Such logic is not possible. Yeah, I'd like to talk to you about something, by the way.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0069par0146	You're still building a factory in Istanbul. You raise the population of Istanbul to 35 million.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0067par0147	Of course we will, but we don't send to Istanbul as much as Istanbul has given us, and we don't do it to him. As a result, development is a very different concept now. The measure of improvement is that if you have a 123-story difference between a district of Mardin and a district of İstanbul, you can't say that the country is an advanced country. For this fundamental reason, the EC PARTY has shown a serious sensitivity to investing in areas that need to minimize these differences by taking a very serious approach over the past decade, and making serious investments in the past decade. He will continue to do so in the future. As for investments related to Izmir, in the coming process, we will see that the shining star of the last decade, the next decade, will be Izmir. With the government's investments, the public's investments, and the energy developed by the civil society dynamics there, Izmir will provide a huge transformation. During the coming period, Izmir will really be the star of the Mediterranean. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0070par0152	Thank you, Mr. Denizli. Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0071par0156	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This has made it a brand of cities where EXPO organizations have been held for a hundred and sixty years, and has radically transformed cities, and Izmir is running for the 2020 EXPO fair. This organization will have a positive effect on the introduction of İzmir and our country. The National Movement Party supports any effort to get Izmir to take the EXPO 2020, but I have made a promise to draw the attention to some of the events and matters of the state of İzmir, which have been nominated for 2020 EXPO, and I want to offer them very briefly. Dear lawmakers, the term "Izmir" means fair, and Izmir is famous for its potential and organizational ability. The 1971 Mediterranean Games, 2005 University organizations, also indicate their ability to organise. The U-20 World Football Championship, released live on television from many countries in the world, will be held in Turkey between 21 June and 13 July 2013, where world-famous football stars have the chance to show themselves for the first time. Of the ten cities nominated for hosting the U-20 World Football Championship, İzmir and Manisa were among them, and the governors and mayors of Izmir (Izmir) and Manisa (Manisa) had also issued a letter of assurance on the issue, but later İzmir and Manisa were removed from the list of provinces to be held by the U-20 World Football Championship, even though they had all the requirements FIFA (FIFA) requested. However, some of the provinces that we know do not have the conditions that FIFA wants are on the list of cities that will be held in this U-20 World Football Championship, and our motion for questions on this matter has been sadly misinformation. I think the Minister was wrong about that, too. Now, the removal of Izmir (Izmir), who is running for 2020 EXPO, has missed a great opportunity for publicity. If it is possible to seize this opportunity again and include Izmir (Izmir) in this organization, this must be taken into consideration. The second important issue: The Future Process and Optional Exchange, established on 4 July 2002 and was launched in İzmir on 4 February 2005, grew 144 times in seven years and became the world's 26th largest derivative stock exchange, reaching the volume of $431 billion in transactions. However, as part of Istanbul's project to build a financial centre, allegations continue that the Future Process and Opposition Stock Exchange will move to Istanbul, and unfortunately those claims are true. The Vadeli Process and Option Stock Exchange, founded in İzmir, is speaking to the world from İzmir, which is a value of İzmir, which contributes a great deal to İzmir and the Aegean region as both economic and promotions, and the move of the Future Trade Exchange from İzmir to İstanbul will unfortunately not contribute to the image of Izmir (Izmir), who is running for 2020 EXPO. Again, initiatives are made by the Ministry of Economics to reduce the number of exporting troops in Turkey from 60/26/, demanding that each sector be united by some exporters and exporters in Istanbul. This is also an attitude that would damage the activities of Izmir, who is running for EXPO. In fact, the EXPO initiative should be a local initiative that the government should have behind its financial moral support and all organizations should be shaped accordingly, while unfortunately the organisation is being damaged due to some accounts related to this organisation. Therefore, three members, including the chairman of the 9-member EXPO 2020 Executive Committee, have been forced to resign, and new appointments have not yet been made in place of those who have resigned. With such thoughts, I wish you all the best luck and success of the 2020 EXPO nomination.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0072par0167	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Congressmans, we're moving on to the QA for 20 minutes, but no questions. Thus, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. IMITOR EXPO APPLAUSE OF BLOOD ABOUT THE EXPOL MADDE 1- (1) The purpose of this Law is to set the ground for the site of the EXPO Fair Organization in Izmir County, which is a candidate for the EXPO Fair Organization in 2020, and to determine the procedures for the planning of the designated area and its close environment and the construction practices in the field. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora? No. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) İzmir Ili is 1/25, approved by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism on 17/8/2011 in İzmir-Inciral Tourism Center in Balçova district. The 5,000-scale Environment Order Plan was designed as a large urban green area and was designated as the ExPO area, which is designated as the area with the additional border and coordinates, which will be acquired under the 18th Article of Building Law 3194, dated 3/5/1985, and will be shared under the Article 18th Amendment. Proposal on matter? No. Question-answer? No. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Article 2 is accepted. Based on planning and implementation MADDE 3- (1) Building in the ExPO area is made a priority by Izmir Metropolitan Municipality and Balçova Municipality following the adoption of the Izmir Metropolitan Municipality and the Council of Balçova under the legislation on the 1/1,000-scale Protection Development Plan and the 1/1,000-scale Application Development Plan. Parts of these plans are planned for health, tourism and qualified housing, except for the EXPO area set up under Article 2. In construction planning, sufficient spaces are reserved for the needed road arrangements. The basic right of construction (E) is not to exceed 0.80 (E) and four times that. (2) In the area of EXPO, areas of izmir Metropolitan Municipality and the municipality of Balçova are created by the EXPO 2020 Izmir Guidance Board and by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, using temporary facilities that are not stable, dismantling and observable in the context of the situation plans. Within the year following the end of the organisation, these structures are removed and the EXPO area is organized as a large urban green area. However, symbolic structures related to EXPO can be preserved, provided we do not exceed three percent of the EXPO field. (3) License transactions related to the EXPO area are introduced and followed by local authorities based on geological, geophysical and geotechnical ethics reports. (4) Planning, zoning practices and regulations in the EXPO area are not subject to restrictions and procedures in other legislation. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are enough spaces for the needed road arrangements for import planning, which are included in Article 3/3 of the 262 Numbered Legislature, which is discussed. After the sentence, the areas of social donuts and the areas required for road arrangements are assessed within the partnership share of the arrangement. We propose and propose that the expression be added. Alaatin Yüksel Mustafa Moroğlu Mehmet Ali Sesam == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0073par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0072par0202	Mr. Sesame, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0074par0204	Mr. President, this is a motion that we've made in the ExPO, in the Incist six, in order to make a significant contribution in order to prevent property owners from being victims of planning for years while they're also being edited for the ExPO. In that sense, it's not right that the commission doesn't participate. But I'd like to highlight some issues in this speech, in this motion. Really, the EXPO is an important project for Izmir, which has been the movement of the NGO for many years. As part of the 2015 project, the contributions I made as a leader of an NGO in the process of the implementation of that project... we need to set the road map of what we should do at 2020 EXPO, looking at the lessons from the 2015 EXPO, where İzmir could not come out victorious. Today, here, all our parties support this law. On behalf of Izmir, I thank all parties. But we must have a vision here. One, we must learn from the past; two, what should our vision of EXPO be? My dear friends, I'd like to point out that the main point of lzmir's neglect is that Izmir was not encouraged by a strategic vision during the rule. Istanbul is a metropolitan city, and in recent times as a financial centre, you take advantage of Ankara as a political capital, you make Antalya a tourist centre, you take the VOB (VOB) in İzmir's hand, and you make it a visionless place, and that's how the EXPO/ya Izmirli is surrounded by Izmirli. With the health contact and tourism of EXPO, İzmir has given him a new vision and to keep this vision of me in power, contribute to my vision. With this vision, I would like to move Izmir to a good point. He said, "All NGOs of Izmir and the people of Izmir hold the local administration with four hands. There's a two-way side to the EXPO: International promotion also features a local organisation. In particular, the mayors of the capital should be at the front of the EXPO (XPO). That's what's missing here. But more importantly, as a government project, we need to make some serious attempts to get governments to vote. Last semester, there was a lack of being unable to show the success of Italy. New members have been made. The success of Italy is very important for new members there, especially members from Africa. Now our opponents are stronger. There are countries like us that can steal votes from us. There is an Islamic country, Russia is nearby, and Brazil, such as Sao Paulo, has an important city. In that sense, I'd like to highlight here today -- as the government, as ambassadors, as representatives of the NGO in that country, and as the dynamics of this country -- I mean, as Hasip AH just said -- with Sezen Aksu, with the art man, with Yasar Kemal, with Orhan Pamuk, with the EXPO, we have to put everyone actively into this promotion at this EXPO. Izmir is ready for this. The power has to be ready for it. We're seeing flaws in the process. Resignations are a part of these shortcomings, but we're not discussing it because we don't have time to argue. What we want is to get the EXPO. We put up with a lot of things for that. But in order to win the EXPO, we will always be with the government and the government, along with the local government and the people of Izmir, to gain the EXPO. We're here today to give you all the support in this law. With that understanding, I wish that with these feelings, the EXPO (exPO) should be blessed with Izmir (Izmir). I'd like to thank everyone who's worked for the law.
tbmm-2012-06-05sit02spe0075par0215	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. MADDE 4- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the bill is accepted and legal. I wish him well. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (June 6th 2012) at 14 p.m. for talks on whether or not the proposal for the motion to be taken into consideration for Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu will be taken into consideration, and for talks on the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, on Wednesday (June 6th 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
