tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0001par0001	I'm opening the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement is from Malatya MP Mustafa Şahin (Matatya) who asked for a comment on the state tradition and cultural structure of Malatya. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0002par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise regarding Malatya's state tradition and cultural structure. I salute you all. Malatya is a province that is considered the capital of the world apricot, which serves as a transition between east and west. Education, health, industry, culture, transportation and tourism are taking important migrations from the surrounding provinces, especially because it maintains healthy and planned growth and development with growing and growing AK PARTI powers. The university of more than 30,000, although we have the most liver transplants in the world, has become a preferential province at the point of health tourism. In the census based on the address, excavations in our province, which exceeds the population criteria required to become a major city, are also documented as significant trade and settlements in these areas, with a number of branded Marks from stone and cooked soils. In particular, it is a city known as Malatya, the Assyrians, the Medler, the Persians, the Byzantines, the Great Seljuklu State, the Danishmentians, the State of Anatolia, the Dulkadir sons and the Ottoman Empire, where the first state bureaucracy and the first accounting records are held. Here last week, we invite those who have expressed that the people of Malatia do not have sufficient cultural knowledge, to make the stones of historical artifacts home or millstones. We invite my dear friend, who has been hinting at Malatya, to see this region with historical artifacts. When we look at Malatya's cultural life, we also know that hearts such as Sadreddin Konevi, who had been raised by men such as Sahabiyei Kübra and Shahabiyayei Shûdras in the Seljukians, who had raised two presidents and two prime ministers in the Republic of Turkey, who had established a throne in the hearts of world-famous scientists, cinemas, theatres, and sounds in the hearts of the people. Today, to preserve and maintain the cultural heritage of our Kurdish citizens, I would also like to point out that the film Memu Zin, by the Turkish writer Ahmadi Hanin, was shot in our historic and natural city of Arabgir. I would also like to point out that if we wrote the cultural riches of Malatya on every step of the stairs, it would be a journey from the mountains of Beydağ to the summit of Nemrut. Once again, we invite those who say that Malatya is lacking in cultural consciousness and consciousness to Malatya to see these cultural riches. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out here that until 1954, we lived together in the sisterly province of Adıyaman and that our cultural, folklore, social, economic family ties remain, as if we were meat and nails. As the common cultural heritage of the world, creating a problem between the two provinces of Nemrut and making it look like there's a problem is the greatest injustice that can be done to the people of both our provinces. In ancient times, we have seen what Pharaohs, martyrs, and nemrods of that time, and how they have been remembered by our people, as well as by the people of that day, fueling discrimination with regional, racial, religious, and cultural values, and seeking political sovereignty. Today, we feel it is our duty, as political figures, to make sure that the rare people of our two beautiful cities pass on unity and unity to future generations. It must not be forgotten that no matter how different people's colors, languages, and dreams, their tears are one. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Salih Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of the troops who are taking services to villages. I salute you all. In order to unite villages that are unable to meet their needs and meet their needs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the public legal personality established by the permission of the Council of Ministers, under Article 127, Article 5355 of the Constitution. The management of service transport units to villages has been granted to governors in the provinces, to the governors in the counties. These troops, whose administration has been carried out by the state and have been activated by the government's leading projects in recent years, are employees of what is called permanent labor status, but are called temporary. They also serve in technical services and administrative services for jobs that have been tendered for thousands of Turkish liras per year, while they are unsecured, anxious to see tomorrow, living in fear of being laid off at any moment, in food, in difficult conditions, in infrastructure, in drinking water projects, and most importantly in administrative services. They do their jobs fully and fully, and they serve in both bureaucratic and land conditions, no overtime. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, unlike other institutions, I find it useful to have the staff of staff working in the troops working for the villages, who have important support for the development of the country, who are involved with the problems of the villagers, and who are genuinely interested in the problems of the villagers. It is so that the service transport troops to villages are ranked first among the most members -- about 909 members -- among the local government units across the country. In spite of its service to all the villages of the district, the municipality or other institutions that serve only in the district centers, the contractor at the Ministry of Agriculture, Dianet, the Ministry of Health, the 4/B/B staff, have been appointed as trustees and nurses at the Ministry of Health for a year under the Law of 663, published on November 2, 2011. I don't understand why our friends don't get that kind of status. Although these applications are not employed under Article 4/B of Law No. 657, they are employed under Article 4/B of State Officers Act 657 in all other matters, except in the procedures and method of setting fees. The terms of contractual staff working in service transport units to villages in the Mahalli administrations and contracting staff in other institutions are almost identical. In view of the situation, a contractual staff member of the villages' service transport units must also be staffed in this situation. Again, other than that, in Adıyaman Karapınar neighborhood, which has been on the agenda of Turkey since yesterday, there have been various letters and letters painted on the doors, walls, windows, and windows of about 45 houses. What is remarkable about this is that we have Alevi Kurdish citizens who live in that area in particular. I've spoken to the governor and the police commissioner of the province about this, about taking the necessary precautions, the necessary assumptions... but I've been hearing from Monday that our citizens there have been restless for four days today, that they haven't slept at night, that they've been on guard. The government's particular caution, its caution... because before, you know, there are bad examples in our region. Adıyaman (Adıyaman) needs to be taken care of so that there is no such thing as a sad event. Adıyaman is one of the best cities in Turkey where peace and peace are best. I especially urge our Home Secretary to be careful about this so that this peace and peace will not be broken. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0005par0038	Thank you, Mr. Firat. The third non-responsive statement is from Mr. Idris Baluken, the Bingol MP who asked about the status of the educational support homes. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0006par0043	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First of all, we wanted to talk about the current conditions and hunger strikes in prison today, but since the Minister of Justice isn't here, we wanted to talk about it when he was here. So, we thought we'd talk about education support houses this week, but as far as I can tell, our Minister of Education isn't here either. So, we're going to express some things here, but we're thinking of bringing this up again in an environment where the Minister of National Education is now here for the solution. First of all, four of these Parliamentary MPs are currently on hunger strike, and a number of important health issues have started happening with our friends. However, there is general insensitivity in parliament and a blind, deaf, dumb approach to the situation. I'd like to address all lawmakers here again, the conscience of the MPs. We didn't have a single congressman who came out here outside the BDP Group and said that the members of this Parliament were on hunger strike and that they were demanding, and we didn't have any friends, and I want to say again, it's not a democratic approach. In support of the hunger strike launched by more than 400 of our fellow prisoners in prison, the mayors of our ninety-eight municipalities today act on a two-day hunger strike in Diyarbakir, and I want the whole of Turkey to be known to the public. Now, today we have a promise on educational support houses. Since 2003, educational support homes in our municipalities have provided students with courses in chess, pictures, computers, public games along with some supporting courses. In 2003, when these activities were launched, they were a number of practices within the knowledge of the governorship and the subsidiary, and there has been no sanctions for our municipalities from 2003 until now, but there has also been a wave of operations launched, especially in 2009, as part of political operations against our party and our institutions, as part of our municipalities. The reason here was driven to us as a number of protocols that should be signed by the national educational directorate, but our municipalities signed these protocols, and after signing this protocol, support course activities continued for our students. However, a month later, closing decisions for our education support homes began to come. Now, we know in a month's time that there was no legal arrangement in Turkey, no new application for education, no constitutional change. Education support homes, approved by the National Education Ministry or the governorate a month ago, are closed for no legal reason, so it shouldn't be difficult to say that the decision here is political. Right now, we think, especially a month before the test, this practice that has victimized thousands of students must be corrected. See, in the closing of the Batman Orhan Dogan Support House, the governor's office cited an indictment prepared by the prosecutor's office. I mean, there's no court order that's been passed yet, there's no legal process that's been completed. On the basis of an indictment by the prosecutor, educational support houses are closed. Of course, I'd like to point out that there's an app here only for BDP municipalities. Maltepe Municipality, Fatih Municipality, Bandırma, Kadıköy, Elaziğ Municipality, Mush Municipality, Osmaniye Municipality, Buca, Şanlıurfa Birecik Municipality and dozens of other municipalities whose names I can't name, must be provided, as well. So the National Ministry of Education, in this matter, must quickly return from this error, to ensure that our students' victims are compensated for this period near the exam. About the framework of these educational support homes, about the methodology, we can then discuss these discussions into maturity, but we feel that such an approach to victimizing all students within a month of the exam is not right. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Congressmans, I'm going to make a moment of my word to our friends who have entered the system according to the Civil Code of 60. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0008par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. As in all parts of our country, the roads are extremely distorted and full of bumps due to heavy winter conditions in the province of Tokat. There is no way that villages and small-scale municipalities can repair these roads and re-alphalt them. A range of sources, such as the CYDES Project, are urgently required to be used for the construction of village roads. A share of the budget must be earmarked and sent to private administrations and municipalities for village roads immediately. I'd like the Finance Ministry to focus immediately on this and budget, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0009par0062	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0010par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. I mentioned it yesterday at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Ankara and Ankara are still victims of heavy snow. Thank God the sun has come out today. Due to heavy traffic, major arteries have begun to melt, but the interroads and sidewalks used by pedestrians are still out of use. God forbid, ambulances, fire trucks and funeral transport vehicles are really hard to get into the alleys. Despite all our criticism, there is no Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, which is likely to be waiting for the sun to come out as soon as possible, as citizens do. I've got two calls for Mr. Gravity. 1) Before Mr. Gökçek forgets that he is the mayor of this province, the people choose me no matter what I do. Before he says, they must start working. 2) The symbol of squiggly oil and oil should be taken down by the billboards and entered into a work pace where the citizen will thank him. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0011par0071	Dear Metiner...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0012par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Freedom of thought and expression, as we all know, is an essential feature of democracy. If all thoughts and opinions in a country cannot be expressed in the clearest, freest and directest way, it is impossible to say that there is a democracy in that country that fits its definition. Freedom of thought and expression does not mean expressing thoughts that we like. On the contrary, it is the expression of thoughts that are contrary to official ideology that may shock us all. Any thought that does not involve insults or violence should be freely expressed. Especially in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this should be expressed in a much freer way. A country with taboos cannot be considered a democratic country with unprovoked, undisputable dogmas. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We must all abandon the logic of the attack.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0013par0077	Thank you, Mr. Metiner. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0014par0080	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As in our country, the victims of heavy snow in our city of Mush and Ankara, our capital, are being severely affected. Before the time of these victims, the state and state bodies must take precautions and allow the public to carry out all rights and demands. But for the past two days, many main streets and streets, especially the main arteries of Ankara, have been closed to transport, education and health are failing, and I want to thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0013par0082	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Zeybekci...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0015par0085	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to add to what our MPs said about the municipalities today, exactly a year ago, because I'm continuing my duties as a mayor these days. First of all, I want to congratulate you on some of the most successful efforts our country has had in forty years, in the highest winter conditions in forty-two years. The main arteries I've seen in Ankara for two or three days have no closed roads, are the interroads of the closed Chankaya. I'd like our dear friends to remind our city of the city of Çankaya to speed up the work, that for over a month there's been ice in front of my house, snow on the sidewalks, to clean them up. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0016par0091	Thank you, Mr. Zeybekci. Mr. Atalay...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0017par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, a friend was subjected to almost the same kind of fine that had been done to Ahmet Kaya in the past because he considered and described a period of political and legal processes as he believed, and was then given a warning. I can't connect him to freedom of thought, freedom of speech, and democratic structure. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0018par0097	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine the problems and solutions of the Constitution, 98th, 104, 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order to determine the issues and solutions in the production, in the trade, in the introduction, in the export. It is the main agricultural product of the districts of Antwerp, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, Siirt, and the livelihood of 200,000 people. Sixty-two.1% of Turkey's total areas are within the province of Gaziantep, and the gen base is Gaziantep. 26% of the farmers in Gaziantep make their living on this product, dealing with the agriculture of the Pistachios. Nearly 90% of the pistachio trade is made in Gaziantep Province. It is an important product for our region and Gaziantep, which does not have large fertile land because it can grow on barren, rocky terrain. Thus, the country, the region and the Gaziantep economy have been widely contributed to the assessment of non-advised land. Our country ranked third in the production of the world's Pistachios after Iran and the United States. There are various problems with the production and trade of pistachio: Long years are needed for the output of the pneumatics, a year of good products, another year's cut in half, good care and the lack of watery agriculture are important problems. While the United States and Iran are doing watery agriculture, the lack of watery agriculture in our country makes competition difficult for us. Because our production costs are high, our price is higher than the outside market, export companies cannot compete with other countries. It is also weak for reasons such as the tastier and greener entrée, which is weak in size and fracturing, which is wet after it is dried and absconded by the darkening of its hard shell, according to Iranian and U.S. peanuts. The lack of enough introductions of the pneumatics, the lack of sufficient resources for publicity and RD is also an important problem. An effective promotional campaign must be organised to find new markets for pneumatics. Planned and stable promotional activities will play an important role in selling the Pistachio. In addition to its unique flavor and its greenness, the benefits of human health must be highlighted in promoting. In addition, the lower-cost Iranian peanut must be smuggled into our country and prevented from being brought into our country by our own species. Since more aflatoxins are in Iran, this leads to negative publicity in other countries. If our species is well introduced in the foreign markets, our country is clear-cut by the breed of Pistachios. Only EU countries consume between 90 and 100,000 tonnes of Pisces imported from Iran in 2006, which is worth 400m euros. In contrast, the country's proximity to EU countries, its ability to raise conditions, and the risk of aflamtoxin is less than that of Iran, which puts our country in a lucky position. That potential must be assessed. It is necessary to establish modern integrated business facilities, as in the United States and Iran, to be processed and wrapped and served by consumers for internal consumption and exports. It is very low to market their products at the same time because of the economic inadequacy and the high production costs right after the harvest. This problem can be solved by taking at least 10% of the year's product and setting up a production union or a coope-rate to prevent the price from going too far. This union or co-op will also prevent excessive price hikes, as the product holds in its hand the amount to regulate market value. In this way, exporters or consumers will be more attractive in their purchase and consumption. As a result, the Pisces is very important to our country, our region, and Gaziantep. It's in the production, it's in the introduction, it's in internal consumption, it's in exports, etc. It is vital that a parliamentary research commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey examines the issue in all its dimensions and determines the measures that must be taken. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] 13) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly There are many problems in the livestock industry. The vast majority of these problems are due to faulty practice. In these days when global warming is visible, food production is becoming increasingly valuable, making it necessary to give animalism a special importance in our country. Therefore, the Constitution is 98, 104 and 105, in order to determine the main reasons for the decline in our animal production, and whether the practices are in the interests of the entire community, as well as the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. Since two of the main nutrients for humans are meat and milk, animalism is one of the most important sectors both economically and socially. In recent years, daily daily consumption of animal protein per capita has increased in developing and underdeveloped countries, while our country has been diminishing. This situation, which is strategically important for the country's future, and the factors that created it, need to be considered very well. The main reason for the decline of production is the market interference that disrupts the supply-request balance. Imports are at the beginning of these. Imports are done regardless of the negativity it will bring into human health. In 2007, where imports have been closed for years due to a deadly disease in humans, for example, the U.S., although the United States has no change in its condition associated with the disease referred to, the International Bureau of Diseases has opened up cattle imports in grouping this country into a "controllable risky country" status. It is an irreparable mistake for the public health to allow the imports of these animals, even though it can be seen in humans many years after the removal of the factor. Moreover, in our country, which is estimated to be a large number of fugitives, there is a suspicion that they will be conducted in a healthy manner in the direction of BSE and in the pursuit of the parts of these cattle imported. The other reason that upsets the market balance is because of animal trafficking. Unfortunately, animal trafficking continues, both by creating an unregistered economic sector with new diseases that our country carries, and most importantly by risking the health of our people. Even when the Ministry is encouraged to remove the register-year-old border to TKVET, a detailed focus should be on smuggling. For the past 10 years, the price of mutton has almost never gone up because of sheep smuggling, and our number of sheep has decreased by 25%. On the other hand, development is possible with good planning and proper support. In our country, there are mistakes in both. For example, the 2006 allowance for animal support was estimated at $650 trillion, but twice that. In this picture, the 2007 budget was used in 2006 payments, and the estimated amount for 2007 was not enough. For 2008, the same painting will repeat itself. Companies that plan in line with these supports will not adapt and the sustainability of businesses will be affected. In sheep support, a bonus for wearing only earrings without saving them in the database can be cited as an example of faulty support. Everyone knows that when planning is not done through the right numbers, the consequences will not be true. For example, Mr. Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, claims that they have increased milk production by 3 million tonnes. However, the possibility of this increase being altered by the coefficients used in statistics appears to be quite high. Thus, it must be investigated whether the pronounced values were caused by a change in the figures of Turkey's Statistical Agency from 2002 to 2005. As a result, there are many problems with livestock. The vast majority of these problems are due to faulty practice. In these days when global warming is visible, food production is becoming increasingly valuable, making it necessary to give animalism a special importance in our country. Therefore, the Constitution is 98, 104 and 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in an effort to determine immediately whether the main causes and practices of the decline in our animal production are in the interests of the entire community. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] 15) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Constitution is 98, in order to determine the measures to be taken by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, researching and reviewing allegations of the tenders made by the Ministry of Forestry and Water on 1901,2009 for the lease of 12 helicopters and four aircraft for 7 years. And the Civil Charter 104 and 105. With all due respect, I'd like to open a "Meclis Research" in accordance with the clauses. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs Department recently tendered 16 helicopters for five years to combat forest fires and five amphibians for seven years. The Unit Price Proposal Court (which has to be submitted according to this condition) will have to be submitted an offer for 16 helicopters as follows. 18506 hours of mandatory bids, and about 2/3 of that amount (also 12337 hours) were offered an optional bid, and the flight rate was around $7,500 US dollars ($). The contract is in the signing phase and according to this: 18506x 7500 = $138.795,000 obligatory + 92.527,000 options, total: 231.322,000. The new helicopters in question cost about 7-8 million dollars. There's no such thing as a condition. Even though it's supposed to be new, 16 helicopters are worth $120 million. The helicopter received is requested to be rented only for 4.5 months each year. These helicopters can easily be used for other purposes (e.g., transport to ski resorts) within 7-8 months of the state's or other organisation (such as Redılay, Turkish Air Agency or private companies) forming its own fleet. When we review the account above, the maximum amount of $120 million per year is paid for 5 months, so 120:5 is $24 million per month. That means that the real commercial value of helicopters is calculated over $288 million by those who make the tenders 24x12 months. This country needs helicopters outside of a four-and-a-half-month forest fire season. If such resources are to be spent, we need to set up a helicopter fleet and provide all the needs, including the municipalities, from this fleet. Otherwise, in the past decade, the annual and hourly spending on chartered helicopters and aircraft from abroad will continue to increase in the coming years, and the resources of our country, our nation, will be wrongly and unplanned. In 1998, for example, the rent fee was $1,600 per hour, which folded in 10 years, reaching about $8,000 (7995) as of 2008. This way, cumulatively folding prices will create a waste of forward resources. On the other hand, the condition for hiring amphibious aircraft is Canadian production Bombardier CL-215. That's what the bid would have been. The aircraft in question were produced in 1969-78. Therefore, no age limit has been set on the condition, and these planes are older planes. One of our country's most important needs is the fire suppression helicopter and its planes, which has recently occupied the agenda of our public opinion, and it is clear that there are still some reservations about it, that the tender conditions are not shared with the public enough, and that the rental costs in particular lead to some question marks. We find it appropriate to investigate and investigate and share the results with the public by establishing a "Meclis Research Commission" on this important issue, which we have explained. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 1) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 18) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now there's a review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Foreign Affairs Commission is scheduled to perform an official visit to Jordan with the invitation of the International Affairs Commission's President, Mohammad Al Halaiqa. The visit of the delegation to Jordan is part of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda with the draft and proposals from the Commission. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On the 2nd ranking of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, we will continue to discuss the Law Bill of Social Insurance and Public Health Insurance with Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan Kokturk, 31,05,2006 Historical and 5510 Social Insurance and Health Insurance Act and the Health and Social Affairs Commission, where we will continue to talk with Social Affairs and Development Commission. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's merger completed a speech on the 1st article on behalf of the National Party for Action. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0019par0288	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise on Social Insurance and the Amendment to the General Health Insurance Act. My respects to all of you. My dear friends, we all live in such a system that we don't really understand what's going on. I'm talking about the usual; I'm talking about the economic system, and I'm talking about the system in general around the world. We're not the ones who set up the system, but we have to question the system. The system has problems. We have to do something about how to fix these. The British social scientist -- there's a living social scientist -- Anthony Giddens says that the current system, especially the economic system, produces four kinds of problems, creates weakness. One of them is violent. When the economy weakens, when it's in distress, communities, people, individuals resort to violence. Second, it causes environmental problems, people's desire to earn more, investments cause environmental problems. Third, the system creates a oppressive regime over time because when unemployment increases, problems with the economy become oppressive. The fourth is the economic system that poses social risks. I want to add corruption and immorality. There are five kinds of social hazards in our economic system, but there's an institution called the social security system that deals with these five weaknesses of the system. If the social security system works well, it works very well for at least three of the 5 weaknesses, preventing at least 3 ▪. That's the way it is. If the system works well, it significantly prevents social risks, prevents violence significantly, and brings solutions, especially for corruption and immorality. We have to consider that. (x) 171 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 72nd Union's Charter, dated 29/02/2012. We're discussing our social security system, we're considering a law on social security. Our social security system is also based on the idea of giving pensions to pensioners, not on the removal of the weaknesses of this economic system, unfortunately, it doesn't exist in the system. But our system had to be organized with that understanding. It had to be organized. That's the problem. We just set up a system for pensioners, when they're at a certain age, when they retire, to give a part of society a month, to try to fix their health problems. That's wrong, of course. Society needs to address the problems of the system as we speak. It's about society's social security well-being, it's about the peace of society, it's about peace of society, it's about the development of society. You had to pay special attention to these parts when you were setting up the system. And there's another thing that caught my attention when I was considering this bill. As I was saying earlier, community scientist Giddens has a theory that he's also producing anti-pressive regimes. Yes, he's producing them because that's what we come up with. Although this bill has not actually solved the problems that pensioners have been waiting for for for years, no retirement association, no NGOs have been able to find any criticism about it, so look at the Internet and look at the associations' views on the issue, they have not been able to bring a solid criticism on this issue. None of them say it's an attitude. They say it's not an attitude law. They say it's not. But still, I suppose, we have a oppressive regime that no one can resist, can't make a clear stand. I'd like to point that out. While we're at it in general, I'd like to bring to your attention the increased suicides in our society, the increased psychological disorders, the increase in problems. If our social security system was working well, it would have to come up with solutions, so these psychological problems, problems, suicides, these kinds of problems need to be reduced, but since the system doesn't work well, there's been a significant increase in them over the years. Therefore, we need to work on this particular understanding of the social security system. In this new era -- especially after Christmas -- the government has brought up very important legislation and proposals. For example, the presidency brought the Election Law, for example, brought the MIT Law, brought the 4+4+4. But as far as these are concerned, we're bringing in these important drafts and proposals, and we're also seeing that you're not doing as much as you need to do the preliminary work on them as you should be. That goes for the attitude, too. This law has not been done enough work as well; its cost is not fully defined; its cost is not exactly clear what it will bring, and it is unclear what it will bring to those who it will bring. Now, my dear friends, this bill, must be accepted -- Mr. Secretary, of course -- will be found in such a claim, but not in an initiative. It means that those who work for the same period of time and pay the same amount of premiums will receive the same salary in their pensions, and they will receive the same pension. Turkey has been out of the question for years. The correction of this situation, you know, in 2006, was to be addressed by the law on social security reform, which came with high hopes, the differences between pensioners, especially the differences between institutions, the norm and the standard union would be restored, and there would be one roof. That did not happen at that time, and these problems have been going on ever since. And the problem that we call this initiative is that it's still not fixed, it's still a big problem. Now, we're going to pay pensioners, especially this year, an estimated 104 billion, just as salary, 104 billion. Isn't that an important sum? Now, intuitive -- we haven't brought it in 24 years, not because it costs too much -- it brings about 2% of the load. Two percent brings an additional charge as much as a yearly increase. Is that what the initiative has been waiting for, for years to come, for years to come, for years to come, for years to come, for years to come, for years to come, for years to come, for years to come, for a two-percent burden? This bill had the rights of those who had retired only before 2000, compared to some of those who retired after 2000, to receive 75 percent of them, otherwise, in no way, the equivalent of the pensions of those who worked for the same amount of time and paid the same amount, is not necessarily equal. We need to know that once. But, in a society that's been working with dignity for years now, can you imagine getting paid more differently than the same person you've been working with, doing the same job, paying the same bonus, and not at a rate of 1.2%, but at a rate of 50 percent? He hates the human government, his people. It's a great deal of trouble, but our pensioners have waited patiently for this law to come out. That came up today. That's what the ruling party promised when the Republican People's Party brought up the issue during the election, but the bill that was brought in today, unfortunately, destroys these hopes, mocks people. This High Council shouldn't do this. We need to take a bigger risk, cost, whatever it is, and make a real policy, because in this way, an important group of people who actually serve society will be insecure about the state.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0020par0299	Mr. Kuyoglu, thank you, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Ugur Aydemir is now a member of the Manisa MP on behalf of his people. Mr. Aydemir, come in. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0021par0305	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of myself to make sure that the identification and/or expression of the identity by means of a biometric method come before the ibare, which is in Article 67 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 31/5/2006. I hereby salute the High Council. Members of parliament, the Social Security Institution is an institution that has taken it upon itself to run and develop a quality, fair, easy, accessible, human-focused and financially sustainable social security system. Without a doubt, these services are one of the main goals of being reflected in effective, rapid, and fair insurance. The Social Insurance Act 5510 and the General Health Insurance Act have eased access to health care and increased the application of health care servers. For example, in 2002, the number of applications to a physician per person increased from 2 per person to 8 per person in 2011. Dear lawmakers have relieved our nation of the removal of the health card application in 2008 and the removal of the application of rounds in January 2010. Dear friends, if the purpose of the Social Security Agency is to make quality, speedy access to service servers and make them easier, what have we done, in turn, to remove the health card, remove the visit paper, and help our patients get treatment in hospitals faster? That's a relief. Here, we call it fast, efficient, and quality. When we look at what we mean by Kalite, we look at the physical conditions of our hospitals, whether we have equipped our hospitals with state-of-the-art technology or not, and most importantly, we look at customer satisfaction. Of course, when we look at a device that measures customer satisfaction, we can't see it right now, but the election gives us a clue. When we look at the general elections, we see that the AK PARTY government has increased its votes in each general election and has reached these days. So when we look up from here, when we see the painting, we see that customer satisfaction is at its most extreme, and this is reflected in the Parliament in the best possible way. We see that both our customers and our nation and our citizens are satisfied with these services. Of course, the visa was lifted, the health report was removed, and instead, health care was offered through the Turkish Republic's ID number. As a result, health care services have been determined to be provided in electronics, safe and reliable infrastructures, biometric identification of people using health care services to prevent traditional methods and irregularities of public identity in providing services. Biometric identification systems are automated systems that aim to identify people based on their identity and based on their external identity. A biometric identification system can confirm whether a citizen was really there during the presentation of health care services. This will allow a person to have real access to health care and access to treatment using rapid and reliable biometric elements instead of traditional identification, such as birth certificate, driver's license, passport, and so on. This will prevent abuses, such as the billing of health care without being in the hospital, so the removal of imaginary patients and imaginary diseases will be made possible. Dear friends, of course, our government has begun implementing systems in Turkey with the latest state-of-the-art technology, as it aims to improve itself every day and become a leading country in the world. We need to see if this system is correct for Turkey, regardless of whether or not biometric handprints are being done in other countries, without looking at what other countries are doing. What does this system bring to Turkey...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0022par0314	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0021par0315	Thank you. I wish you all the best in this bill of law.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0022par0318	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. Now for the government's work and social security minister, Mr. Faruk Çelik. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0023par0322	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers have evaluated our friends on the first amendment of the bill we're discussing. I thank them very much. As you know, article 1 is provided with a biometric identification arrangement. Why is this being brought in? To prevent an imaginary patient's notification, they are billed to the institution by taking non-patient ID numbers. This, unfortunately, exists amongst our findings. As you know, with the TC ID number, we've brought up the possibility of health benefits, examinations, treatments, we've removed the health stamps, but as a result, the abuse of the abusers came to the attention. Then we need to take precautions. It's one of the precautions. Is this a measure that prevents or eliminates all abuse? He may not be able to handle it, but we have a responsibility to take new measures against any problems.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0024par0324	It's not a precaution if the con men aren't punished.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0023par0325	Of course, that's why I took the word. That's why I made a promise. Now, this biometric method has been expressed in what countries? • This applies in the banking sector in Germany, Japan, Russia, India, Brazil; and in the health and insurance sector in the United States, 22 groups of hospitals and insurance hospitals, including the Association of Hospitals in the United States. In addition, this system is implemented in Germany and Sweden. The question was asked here, whether the system was imported or domestic. The sensor part of the system that only maps the veins in the palms is imported, and the whole other system will be domestic. The question was, will there be a tender on the purchase of Jihaz? What ministry will he do about it? Hospitals are expected to receive the device, not the SGK. So, today, in the first place, private hospitals, then university hospitals, and other hospitals would be popularized in this way. Now, as for the audit results, so since we've identified them, we're bringing this solution proposal. In the audits conducted by our guidance and inspection office in 2011, the audited private hospital 143, pharmacy 652; 143 special hospitals have been dissolved by 3/3 of the special hospitals, our contract has been annulled, and 652 pharmacies have been called off at 188 pharmacies. The damage to the institution is $17,500,000, as a result of these findings, and I'd like to state that the penalty is 92,16,000. Besides, our county offices, as you know, have supervisors. As a result of our audits, the number of hospitals controlled by our municipal administrations is 1,816. The penalty is 2 million and 252,000 TL. In the audits conducted at the pharmacy, 7,583 pharmacies have been inspected through our municipal administrations, the penalty is $3,27,000. So the audits are happening at the state level and at the level of our Inspection Board presidency, and we need to take those measures if we have to take legal or administrative measures to address these problems as well as the problems that have arisen. Dear MPs, here, just now, Mr. Kusoglu has touched on some issues. Of course, we respect your opinion, but first of all, you can criticize our current social security system, but let's not forget that you and Mr. Kilicdaroglu have been with the President for a long time, and I even want to point out that since you've been in the process of breaking down the system today, since you've been in the process of disorganizing the system, I think it would be more appropriate to express it, considering this. Also, we have no problem with retired associations, and such pressure is certainly not about any civil society, but we need to know that Mr. Kusoglu knows very well the complexity of the system, and our concerned friends, and our colleagues in the business, are going to agree very well with how complex the system is. Now, if you want to create a fairer system here, you can get a much more unfair result. As a matter of fact, when you look at the proposals of the Republican People's Party and our relevant parliamentary friends, we are now paying 92 quadrillion pensions per year -- 92 billion new, 92 quadrillion pensions -- in 2011, the monthly amount we paid pensioners within a year, 92 billion liras and 92 quadrillion in old numbers. Well, now, you have an offer. So let's do the construction system, give all the pensioners a raise. And you're offering 38 billion dollars, 38 quadrillion dollars for pensioners. Which of our MPs here in Parliament doesn't want 38 billion to be handed over to pensioners, and everyone does, but it's proportional to the country's resources. Second of all, I said this isn't a raise. And I specifically said: 2.7 billion, this increase in incentives in pensioners, is about areas where there are problems, so it's an arrangement that's aimed at analyzing areas of intuitiveness. So there's no cost account here alone. That's what I'm saying here to express it. Regarding women, evaluations on the first article were important here yesterday, especially regarding the debt of birth. And in that frame, I want to make it clear that we've also brought important positive distinctions to our women as well as to the Department of Labor and Social Security. We add one-quarter of the work of a disabled woman with a disabled child, so we also lose five years of age because of the disabled child of a woman who has to work for 20 years, and we reflect that in her retirement. We made this arrangement. For women who make a living with crafts, we've paid 15 days' premiums and brought in a month's insurance. Now, as of this year, it can take 19 days each year to increase by a year. We brought this arrangement. Also, as you know, when a citizen of BUG-KUR died, when the USSR had passed away, the children of our citizens of BUG-KUR were unable to take advantage of it while their daughter was getting dowry money when she was getting married. We have brought to our daughters of BUG-KUR, and to the daughters of those who have passed away, their dowry for twenty-four months. Again, we have brought back the arrangement, which provided the ability to borrow money back in accordance with the regulation in Civil Law, the family head of the insurance of women selling agricultural goods in support of you from the previous Parliament. Now, the birthing debt, the first time we've put in the legislation, and two kids, we've known a four-year process. Sir, let this include the period before the insurance. There is an approach like this. It's a respectable approach, but if you can't connect with the insurance, how are you going to connect it? But it's something to study. And we take that as a respectable view, and we're very pleased that we've brought in an arrangement that isn't present, which is not in the system, but it's the issues that can be discussed in the process, I say. And finally, I'm going to say, as a result of these pensioners, what number of pensioners are going to get a raise, how much they're going to get, they're going to get a difference, and I'm going to evaluate that in the next article. Thank you all very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0025par0341	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP. Mr. Corporate, please. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0026par0345	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on social insurance and general health insurance bill. Yesterday and today, Mr. Secretary, we listened to the President of the Commission. They're talking about a six-month study, and they're doing a lot of work, but looking at what's come out of it, it's not going to pay at all, and it's not going to. There's been a government that's been at this point for over a decade. Remember, when the government came to power in 2002, he promised to give us two years. He promised to solve a lot of problems, including this problem, but the point was clear in ten years. The most difficult part of the 75 million population is probably pensioners, and there's no question that there's not even a real improvement in this legal arrangement today; it's not harmony; it's a search for a patch to the social security system, which is now in decline, but it doesn't look like this patch will hold. So what millions of people have been waiting for is this very urgent impression that a population of close to 10 million people, a weight that doesn't really match, a non-compliance work that doesn't really match, is something that, in fact, you're going to get from wherever you're going to get it. Now, there's a presentation that there's, you know, there's almost all of this -- the pensioners, the workers themselves -- if there were to be an increase between $10 and $300, there'd be no equality with it, but the government says, "Well, we didn't crush our pensioner into inflation." Although the conditions of today's crisis and the days to come are already going to take it away. One asks whether or not: Why didn't it include pensioners between 2000 and 2008? • Budget discipline talks about things like this that can't be excluded. So we have to ask, that these incentives are being squandered, that they're still bidding millions of dollars of warplanes, that it would be best to approach this problem with an increase in the basic fees of our pensions, and with a reflection of what they really are, in fact, on the basis of the salary, at the rate the pensioners are expecting today, at a human rate where they're going to live. If not, the living conditions of our pensioners today are clear in the face of the declarations of poverty. Let's see the bigger danger, dear lawmakers, what do the next few days show? In these crisis conditions, workers who are laid off every day will have a job that people can work for, first of all, to pay the premium for retirement in this job -- in terms of today's conditions -- and therefore a life that can be retired in these conditions can be completed, so there will be a chance, a privilege to even retire in the coming days. So, the 16th largest economy, that's what we're growing up to, but from this growth, what we call the pensioner, the worker, the worker's welfare share, is zero. First, it's the government's duty to eliminate and eliminate the injustice of this income, but there's a government that can't do that. One reality is that people don't want to retire. Why? Because he's already living his life on his salary today. A sister we met at the anchor said this and was ashamed to say that we are standing in the way of young people. So, dear lawmakers, our dear people, what kind of power gives a worker, a labourer, a pensioner? Such power, of course, is not such a government. First of all, it's something to think about the lives of workers, futures, security; therefore, all workers, especially pensioners, should be united, organized, and no longer be fooled by the word of the government's sign of satisfaction. Where there is talk of customer satisfaction, public service is zero; it is commercialized, marketed, public understanding has been removed; the greater of error, guilt, and evil begins here. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0027par0354	Mr. Corporate, thank you. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute question-and-answer on matter. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0028par0358	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, supermarkets and hypermarkets are being opened in all parts of our country, and even this opening goes between the neighborhoods, facing three or four supermarkets in one neighborhood. In the meantime, the tradesmen have suffered a great deal of damage. Our tradesmen are also very troubled about unemployment. Our tradesmen say: "We also want to pay for unemployment insurance in the coming period. " They ask if there will be a study on unemployment insurance? Another issue is now being applied to pensioners at 10%, the lowest share of drug contributions in the current legislation. Will the 1% of the bill apply to pensioners? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0029par0362	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0030par0364	Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer my question yesterday about the unemployment fund. How do you assess the money collected here? Did you transfer to any other agencies? When do you plan to bring the law of occupational health and safety to Parliament? Business inspectors from your Ministry used to investigate business accidents. You took these, you gave these inspections to insurance inspectors, SEC investigators. They're not technically enough, they're also on their side in business accidents, and since they're on the side of the insurance agency, their reports are not objective. You've given women who give birth on insurance the right to serve as many as two children. When are you going to give birth to women before they're insured? The insurance payments on the last law of integration...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0031par0370	Thank you. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0032par0372	Mr. Minister, yesterday you announced that 1,905,000 SSK people and 12.186 BUG-KUR will receive a raise between 10 and 320 liras - 100-150 liras for the people and 10-320 lira for the others. In your earlier statement, they will receive a raise between $10 and $270. When you said that Mr. Arinc, our Minister of State, 30 TL, was on me. When you said, "There are always a few coins to pay," you said. Now, this policy is serious business. I want to know whether or not you have prepared it in the sense of the Aga-muk, or in the sense of the social state, the pensioners have such rights, there is injustice, let's deal with this injustice, let's deal with injustice. And I want to know if you've drawn up a bill of rights or not.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0031par0375	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0033par0377	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, as Minister of Labor, the employees of the 4/C" status -- I mean, outside of privatisation -- did the same job, but unfortunately they weren't recruited. Are you thinking of hiring? Will you take into account the case of those who work for the Turkish Statistical Agency and the Turkish Grand National Assembly? Another question: Now, we're drafting the Intibak Act, but the salary hike of civil servants, civil servants, widows and orphans, veterans and martyrs, and again 4/Cbookers, still hasn't been given the 2012 salary hike. When do you think you'll give it to me? What's taking him so long? What's the reason? Another thing: will you pay for this delay? As a government, you're asking for delayed interest. Will these people be paid a price for this delay, as long as its flaw is yours, and it belongs to the state? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0034par0382	Mr. President, you're not in charge of yesterday's line, so if you donate, you don't do it in order of yesterday's order.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0035par0383	I do it by looking at them both.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0034par0384	I'm in third place, Mr. President, and I'm in third place according to my list.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0035par0385	Today's list, Mr. Aslanoglu, calm down. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0036par0387	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I want to know how much money has been saved in the unemployment fund, how much of it has been used in other areas, and how much of it has been funded. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0037par0390	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0038par0392	Mr. Secretary, I'm not asking questions about age-appropriates, I'm exercising my right to remain silent. Respectfully, Mr. Secretary, I will not speak to them for a minute, for a minute of my time, for those of age, for respect to them, for hungry people, for no attempt to find a solution to them... they are our citizens. The kids are hungry, losers. The social government will find a solution. Don't disrupt the social security system, but it's our duty, Mr. President, to find a temporary solution.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0037par0393	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0039par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, especially those who are from BUG-KUR are able to borrow back when there is an occasional gap after a certain amount of bonuses. During this debt, when you demand debt, you want the pension and social security cut back with interest. In the meantime, these people are already unable to benefit from health care. So, don't you think that's unfair? Why do they also have to pay the health care premium for when they can't take advantage of the pension with interest? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0040par0397	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0041par0399	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you have stated that the draft bill stipulates that the 243,000 people who would benefit from this bill have to be examined, and experts will work overtime to examine them on Saturday-Monday. Is it possible to pay the pensioners 1/1/2012 in 2013, considering that this work was done by the Ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0042par0402	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0043par0404	Mr. President, thank you. These supermarkets are opening. A question was asked about the tradesman. Right now, I'd like to point out that an arrangement for unemployment insurance and trade is not on our agenda. The fact that the drug is 1 per cent flexible, or the base is being moved from 10 per cent to 1 per cent, is caused by a request for elasticity by the institution, the Social Security Agency, which means that there are drugs that you need to apply maybe 5 per cent, but the law brings 10 per cent and 20% obligation, and you may need to apply 15 per cent. In terms of this elasticity, we don't increase the ceiling from 1 to 20, but by reducing the base to 1, the elasticity here is in the hands of the institution. As you know, we've merged the ISKUR and Ministry inspection, and that's how we serve now. The occupational inspector and social security inspector are overseeing business accidents. We have directed business inspectors, inspections, more educational and preventive systems control to ensure there is no conflict of mission and the quick end of investigations. Besides, I just made a statement about the birthing debt of uninsured women, about that...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0044par0409	Minister, the one who gave birth before it was insured, not insured...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0043par0410	It's the first time we've brought in a loan, but there's a demand for a loan back to the period when they're not insured. As we put it from the bench, we consider it as the Ministry, as the institution. All the public and all the women know how much we discriminate against our women. Tax refunds, additional payments, you asked, "Is this right-based arrangement being carried out?" This arrangement is a right-based arrangement, and I'll make it very clear. When you claim otherwise, you must bring the alternative solution. So the alternative solution is that we raise pensioners, and the solution is not the alternative to initiative. The alternative is to identify the problems within the system and to take steps towards resolving problems. As we have stated, it's an effort to address injustice within the system, which includes 1,186 people and 1,905,000 people related to BUG-KUR. The unemployment fund currently has 53 billion dollars worth of $521 million. In addition, the situation was asked about whether or not the 4/C will be taken into office. We have a study on the personnel regime -- really, our staff regime is partly cloudy -- on this issue. We want to make this neat. We're going to have people from 4/C, 4/B, right now. So there's a compilation, collection, in this system where we're having alphabetical difficulties. I don't think it's appropriate to say anything specific about him right now. Once we're done working on the system, we'll go public with this. Officers' salaries are raised: Yes, due to the amendment to be made as of January 1st, since we have moved from public meeting to collective contracting system, we have not been able to raise the law, due to the lack of harmonisation law so far, unfortunately, but the commissions are currently under way for drafting and negotiations. Hopefully, we'll finish the collective contract that doesn't go past April, and, of course, as of January, these 2012 raises will be paid.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0045par0415	Will you pay the late fee?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0043par0416	I mean, there's a variety of reasons why he's late. As you know, it's not just a matter of my ministry, it's a matter of all ministries. It's a new system for Turkey, whether it wants to or not, which includes policy on the future of all public employees. Since there is a decision to be made at the desk, there are sensibilities. I say I respect that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But as the Ministry, I would like to state that we had the final meeting yesterday regarding its immediate conclusion. I'll answer the other questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0046par0420	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, there's a motion on the matter, and I'm going to read it: T. B. M. M. To the presidency. This is the 1st draft of the 171-tier bill in session. is about to arrive after the phrase "ve/or" in the article We request the addition of the document, which proves the identity of the Public Wallet and other documents. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı İzzet Cetin Sakine Self - Kazım Kurt Hope Rate Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0047par0431	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0046par0432	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0048par0433	Sir, we don't agree because it's in the law that the motion demands, it's in the law.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0046par0434	Do you want words, or do you want motive?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0049par0435	Mr. Yellow...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0046par0436	Mr. Müslim Sarı, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0050par0440	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of the 1st Amendment to the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. The substance in question is a substance related to biometric methods. But after listening to the Minister, I've decided to change the content of my speech. Because in his speech, Mr. Secretary has actually made some explanations of how the government views social state and social insurance, social insurance, and its mood, spirit world and mentality, which I would like to decrypt. Mr. Secretary mentioned that he gave 92 billion lira pensions in 2011 by your government. He said our offer cost $38 billion, and he talked about budget opportunities. But it is clear that this perception has nothing to do with the understanding of the social state. The matter of policy is a matter of great importance, and it is not a matter of mathematics, Minister; it is a matter of one. Second of all, it's not a blessing. The issue of paying pensions to pensioners, people who have been wronged, or making arrangements for the past cannot be assessed in a sense of grace. It's a surrender of a social right, and you have to perceive it as a surrender of a social right. We've also criticised the Plan Budget Commission for this, and Mr. Secretary: No, we didn't look at our material resources and set up the scope according to it. We looked directly at the situation of those who had been wronged or victimized, and we calculated their cost, and we looked at our budget according to it. But what we're told here is about $2 billion in size. The perception of the total cost of this is 2 billion, and it's very important to perceive it as just a mathematical event, and to discuss its burden on the total budget, to show its view of social government understanding. Budgets are the text where governments determine their economic preferences, social preferences, and ultimately political preferences, and governments reflect their own preferences in their budgets, determine which source, which social areas they will create. So, after making these decisions, when some suggestions come after making their own choices, when some suggestions come as an extension of the social state understanding, our budget resources are not enough for this. So it's not a very right approach, it's in terms of social state practices and the delivery of a social right, because you're the one who set the budget, you're the one who determines how much you're going to pay, and then you're going to go back after that: Well, who's got enough resources for this in our budget? You. So, I don't see any good intentions here, Minister, but I'd like to say that from the beginning. We also have very serious reviews of the broadness of the law: in transition to the new system, when we adapt the new system to the old system, the issues that arise between 2001 and 2008, the adaptations from after 2013, but we're going to evaluate them as much as possible, so I don't want to get into those issues. As a final statement: When we look at the spirit of matter and the spirit of the bill, it has actually emerged as the expectations of large social areas, and as a material that reflects the expectations of all large social areas, I don't see it as a legal text and as a bill, and I can tell you in general that the word "institution" does not deserve this bill. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0051par0450	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Talks on matter are complete. First, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who don't accept... those who don't... the matter is accepted. In the second sentence of Article 68 of Article 2-5510 of the Law, the ten-period of Madde 2-5510 has been changed to %1. On behalf of the groups on the matter, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Iron Steel, Müsh MP. Mr. Steel, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0052par0458	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 2nd Amendment of Bill 171 concerning public health insurance and social security. I salute you all. Mr. President, in international literature, health is the physical, spiritual, social and political goodness of society as well as individual, individual, individual. It's a general rule for us, for the French, for the British, for the American. The legal changes that would be done in this way should be approached with radical and long-term solution projects and perspectives towards the establishment of this goodness. The palate, the periodical solutions that save the day and the present, will not improve health, will not solve health as a bleeding social trauma, which is the main problem for more than 30 million citizens, which is starting to become the problem that we can't overcome with new problems and problems that we can't overcome. More than 30 million, 40 million, including our unemployed, or almost 60 percent of our population, are faced with victims, deprivations and inadequacies, and a new legal arrangement to solve their problem, and a new law proposal to address it is being presented by the government to the supreme committee, to the legislature, which should have been, unfortunately, but today it is a practice that has become a practice in the health sector of the periodical and society to manipulate a part of its demands and spread them into time. Mr. President, in particular, the AKP's Power, which has been accepted by the public as a result of ten years of actions and practices, has more than the art of marketing at all times, but it has to be aware and aware of the public satisfaction and awareness that some of the problems caused by political, social traumas, which could not be solved for 80 years ahead of their power. That's what we have to be. In this sense, solving the problem radically is more important than anything else, standing before us as an unscheduled mission. Yes, privatisation is one of the methods of our country, as in any country, in order to transform its services into efficient, efficient, fast, and qualified services from the cumbersome, bureaucratic, hierarchical relationships of the state. But this method must be focused on the human mind, the happiness and satisfaction of man. But it turns out that we're dealing with a health policy that has been converted into commercialized hospitals rather than to see the quality of this satisfaction in a health care sector, where university hospitals have been evacuated and kept from service, which is subject to privatisation fairs. Here, the human body and the biochemistry have been metabolized, and on top of that, our people have been made subjects of making money. Our privatized healthcare sector is the largest 6th largest sector in Europe, but we are the last of the European countries to rank a share per capita in health expenditures. In the same way, our development as the 16th economic power should be the most basic solution perspective that should be resolved when our ranking is 92. When you can't figure it out, it's not gonna solve the problem just by making sure that the people who pay the same bonus during the same period are cured. Retired, employees and workers, as we call them as a whole, and the oppressed are pushed out of the social, cultural, economic, political zone, out of the picture, out of the way, out of life. Society is growing every day. We're here to meet the growing needs of the growing society. We're obliged to offer those needs in favor of the individual before its time, in favor of the community, but unfortunately we don't show our responsibility when it comes to improving the commission of the National Assembly and improving the salaries of lawmakers within it, when it comes to workers, workers, and oppressed, we don't show it. Today, however, it is impossible to explain that the family's hunger limit of four is 960, and the monthly income for the life of a family of four is 2,500. In this sense, any practice is free of sense of justice, of sense of equality, of victimizing a large part of society, preventing it from adding to the existing changing spirit of society, which is to keep it from participating. But what it should be is that if we had devoted a large share of our budget to education and health with a democratic, liberal understanding, instead of a security and social paradigm, society would have won if we could provide a month's income and accessable, qualified, free health for our employees and pensioners. The winning society would become increasingly efficient, efficient, historical role and function. But instead of doing this, we still insist on the policies that are being implemented, we continue to buy the F16, the F35, that we have given billions of dollars with our security-axis approaches. But the job has a very simple solution project. If society is multi-identified, multicultural, multi-complicated, it will give us all a collective will based on the common common sense of social dynamics. To spare this opportunity, to alter it, to deny it, or to cover it up will make us lose it today and tomorrow as it was yesterday. To stand for loss when it is possible to win, to display political stances in favor of the loss of society, is a situation that does not suit the rising value of democracy, the democratic value of today. And I think that in the world today where negotiations, dialogue is popular, the problem and the problem are worth discussing on democratic grounds, on legitimate grounds, more than anyone else, Turkey's oppressed, its people deserve it. In this respect, instead of offering such and similar laws, we should be able to address the fundamental problems of our country, especially the Constitution, all of the legal and constitutional problems, concentrate on them, transforming the wealth of workers, workers, oppressed, poor, happy and prosperous country into a country that they have taken fair advantage of. Imagine that if 80 percent of our wealth can be taken away by 21% of the population, if we 98 percent of the remaining 20 percent are facing the misfortune of taking advantage of us, there is no peace, there is no trust, there is no happiness. It is the duty of the legislature more than anyone, any organ or any institution to change that. With this sensitivity, I salute you once again with respect and love, hoping that we will approach the problem.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0053par0470	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Second speaker, Congressman Ali Öz on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Oz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0054par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express our views as the National Movement Party on the 2nd Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers, social security systems are systems that are directly related to concepts such as understanding and encompassing all communities, as well as to providing as much trust and assurance as possible in the communities that are covered by them, such as social peace, community peace, and happiness. It is a great mistake to reduce the concept of social security only to words such as monthly, health-related contribution, and to express it in such words. Due to changes in the norm and standard union of the social security system and monthly binding provisions, differences between the rights and obligations of the insurance holders and pensions linked to the insured have failed to establish equality and justice principles in the system. We, the National Movement Party, support the adoption of the Inequality Act in order to eliminate the inequality of pensions. We hope that different calculations, mostly technical information and figures, that undermine equality and justice, will compensate for the injustice of pensions. However, we would also like to point out that regulations made by this law are incomplete and inadequate. About 2,700,000 pensioners have retired before 2000. The bill is of interest to 1 million 913 thousand of this section. The NGO pensioner's pensioners have not been taken into account and, unfortunately, have been restricted in such a way, including SEC pensioners and BUG-KUR pensioners, whose number is 12,000. However, there are also significant differences in the salaries of our pensioners, who have served as a public servant in our country. For example, the difference between first-class property managers, first-level officers and senior bureaucrat salaries and a 30-year-old physician's monthly salary is quite high. Even after retirement, we believe that our physicians who have had to work for the continuation of their standard of living need to be compensated by an arrangement. With this law, it is not understandable that some 800,000 people who retired before 2000 should be excluded. This law, on the other hand, should be able to compensate for the salary difference between all pensioners. Retired pensions under the hunger limit should be improved, even expanded the scope of improvement. The minimum satisfaction of this section must be achieved, not forgetting the fact that all workers and producers will grow old and retire. All of our pensioners should also have a raise in salary to ensure human life. Otherwise, this law, which the pensioners have been looking forward to for over 20 years, will be a complete disappointment. The reason the government has brought the bill with such a narrow approach is that budget resources are limited. The law will contribute 10 to 250 lira to pensioners who will benefit from this bill, according to statements by the Minister of Labour and Social Security and NGO officials, and the date will be January 2013. The fact that the right demands of pensioners have not been met for years and that their rights have been presented as a blessing is not understandable. Dear lawmakers, on the other hand, the situation of employees after retirement must be reconsidered with a new regulation brought under Law 5510. In particular, it is not fair to receive social security benefits from their pensions, even though these studies have no effect on pensions for the insurance people who have started working again when they receive the pension. This procedure has put our pensioners in a very difficult position. The social security premiums paid by our pensioners who continue to work in such cases should first be taken into account in terms of the day and the number, and a new and fair premium system should be provided for due to the work of our pensioners outside of the pensions in this situation. The other issue is that when our tradesmen and artists cannot regularly deposit pensions and health benefits for various reasons, they will suffer further problems in the system. It is unfair for them to pay both pensions and health care premiums with interest -- I mean, backwards -- during the time they owe. At the very least, they should be exempted from the health care premium for this period when they do not use health care. On the other hand, BUG-KURL residents who regularly pay their uninterrupted bonuses should be rewarded either with a bonus increase or an increase in their pension. This can also be an encouraging example for other tradesmen. Once again, if he expects to retire due to the age of the BUG-KUR-KUR who deserves to retire as a year, he must occasionally take advantage of health care. The biggest victims of the current system are the BUG-KUR pensioners. The highest premium among the insurance arms is the tradesmen and artists, while this is the minimum salary. Traders and artists who are bankrupt, closed jobs, who are unable to make a temporary deposit due to illness or accident should be covered by unemployment insurance. Valuable lawmakers are expected to change the second sentence of Article 5510's second sentence of Article 68, and reduce the power to a minimum of 1 percent of the level of accession between 10 per cent and 20 per cent for non-body prosthetics and orthesis provided in standing treatment, so it may be 1 per cent to 20 per cent. For the same reason, it is alleged that it was intended to prevent people's victim by drawing the lower limit by one per cent, since there is not a chronic illness, but a 10% share of drug participation has been taken from people who have been prescribed with high consistent medications in their treatment. The concept of high-stakes medicine in the proposal is not clear. This is a relativistic approach. In addition, the continuous scope and size of the application of participation in medicine and medical supplies has been increased, and at the latest, a law passed through our Parliament, which envisions a $1 turnout for each of the three pencils/three boxes in prescriptions, and a 1 dollar contribution for each of the additional pens/boxes, and a sleeping share in the treatment. With this arrangement, it is as if there will be less participation from retired citizens. However, when we look at the practices of the SGK, we see that even some patients with a medical board report under chronic illness have a 10% turnout. These are examples of osteoporosis, psoriasis, diabetic neuropathy, diet solutions, and medications used in the treatment of allergic retinas. In this case, we are concerned that the lower limit can be reduced to 1% and a percentage of participation in some reported drugs as part of chronic diseases. On the other hand, if this turnout is drawn from 1 per cent to 10 per cent with good intentions, there may also be an increase in drug waste. First of all, the percentage of participation should be granted to those who are still in practice in chronic diseases, who are reported. You have to follow the reflection of this substance in practice. With all due respect, I salute your grand delegation, hoping that there will be no way to improve the benefit of the pensioners and improve the reform of the reform law to the pensioners, and a trap to undo the increase in wages.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0055par0490	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Third speaker, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Congressman of Manisa, Mr. Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0056par0495	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 2nd Amendment to Social Insurance Number 171 and General Health Insurance Act. I salute the High Council. There is a change in the 2nd article that we are discussing today. Last week, this entered the text with a motion given to the Plan and Budget Commission, and immediately after that, public accession from the drug was created as if it were being reduced, downloaded, and that's how it reflected in the media-released organs. However, I would like to make it clear that some of the drugs, some of the treatments that have not been taken before, are now being prepared to take part in some of the treatments, so that both the Supreme Assembly and our citizens may be notified. The question is: Clearly, this provision will be determined by the Social Security Institution in the terms of the law's participation and non-responsibility. It is estimated that the turnout will be between 10 per cent and 20 per cent. However, when you try to take a turnout from certain drugs and treatments, which have not been taken before, with a zero per cent turnout, the lower limit is 10 per cent. This makes it impossible to receive participation in high-priced treatments, as my deputy has just transferred from motive. It is virtually impossible to take a 10% turnout from drugs that cost thousands of dollars. The Social Security Agency wants to take into account the authority to step up from the condition of the drug and treatment by starting this limit from 1 per cent to receive accession share in high-cost cases such as business accidents, occupational disease, and in order to avoid the lower limit of 10% of accession, which is reflected in the press as if accession shares were being reduced to the public. However, there is still a matter of preparation for the preparation of institutional lawyers and to bring new participation to pensioners, employees, workers, again, even in such a case, in a law that pensioners are looking forward to, such as the law on initiative today, but if there's a chance, I'll mention it in a moment, there's still a matter of preparation for them to get their hands in their pockets. When the ruling party arrived, Turkey received some kind of turnout, as in the entire world; zero from the report; 10% from the pensioner; 20% from the employee; 12 per cent from the employee. When you think about a situation where the prescription average is $40, you get $4-4.5 to participate in a patient social security agency or social security system. Look, at a point where the prescription average is $40 today, our patients -- every time I'm on the stand, they've got a new turnout, so we said five, seven, we said seven -- nine different types, they're paying in the pocket right now. Look, I'll try to express it one by one: the practice we used to call drug participation continues, 10 and 20 per cent, but there's a $12 fee from patients from public hospitals and universities who go to private hospitals because of their participation in the meeting. Whether it is a family physician or a family physician, or two pens are prescribed, a prescription fee of $3 per three pens is paid if you go to any hospital called the prescription fee. ▪ Equivalent drug price difference is being taken. • Ten per cent more than the cheapest drug is being paid, and the difference is required from the patients. Each drug with three pencils per box is paid $1. In private hospitals, the special hospital is paid for the difference, the fee for the difference is taken. When faced with a more expensive study than the list of the state's Social Security Institution, you will receive this study if you pay for such a difference from your pocket. The difference fee is taken from the early examination. You went to a doctor for ten days, and the system will shut down that area of expertise, and once again, if you go to a doctor from the same area of expertise, because he didn't pay for it -- normally he doesn't want to go. But health says it's an irreversible demand, it's an emergency -- when you go there, the difference is asked of you. The ninth is also requested for a priority study fee. The patient has a suspicion of cancer, the findings are unclear, a computer scan is required, the patient cannot wait a day, the time has been given six months. To shoot early, come on Saturday, come on Sunday, first let's do this film, this study, pay for it. These are all new applications invented by the Social Security Agency during the AKP's rule, applications that increase payments on the mobile. Here's the thing: the part of what you call a commitment is not a matter of sharing the patient with the cost -- there's no part of the world -- but the question of participation is that you dip the needle in yourself, the failed state, the sack into the Social Security Foundation; know that it costs you, and be aware of that. On the other hand, from 12 percent to 40 percent to 44, to 50 percent, the pocket payments, between the patient and the drug, the thickness of the wall that you knit between the patient and the treatment has reached a halfway point. We want to make that clear. The government, the public administration, wants transparency, especially if it's about health, social security, it's all about transparency because the person here is a patient, not a customer. We've always said: you're commercializing the work, you're metamorizing the treatment and the medicine, you're customerizing the patient. But today, when the ruling party's member of the 1st article has made a commitment to himself, he comes out here and he underlines the issue that we describe, exactly six times, the satisfaction of the customer. No health, no social security, no patient's rights, where you call it customer satisfaction. The mentality that calls the patient "client" is not going to bring health to the patient.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0057par0504	It's a concept.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0056par0505	Let's say, very clearly and very clearly, customer satisfaction. Let's say that, as the Prime Minister says, they should not be infected, they should be customers, they have rights, they have consumer rights. There's an obligation to put a price on a shelf at a grocery store. I pay for my health, for my medicine, for my illness, for nine different things, for three different sources; in the pharmacy, the hospital, the salary, it's not clear what it is. From time to time, the institution stirs these things up, but at least tell me this clearly: We will receive this much of the treatment from you. Say: "This is what we will receive from you. Would some of the same money be cut off from a private hospital, some at a pharmacy, some at a salary? It's this: these things that need to be transparent are a matter of being obscured, unobserved, confused. Government is transparent. I give this much participation, that's my strength. Call these people. How about something like this, Uncle? Look at the walker! Pull the turnout out of his pocket. Aunty, let me see your wallet. There's no sense of participation like that! There's no such thing as a health fund. That way, there's no such thing as nailing, waking, somehow confusing people.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0057par0506	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0056par0507	You're saying there isn't one, Mr. Lawmakers? What did you pay your mother, your father, an old man who went to the doctor by himself? What did you pay at the pharmacy? What did you pay at the hospital? Ask him, how much is your salary? Come on, I've left him, ask the security guards of the Agriculture Bank in our most common bank in Turkey, the Farm Bank, the accountkeepers of the Agriculture Bank, the payroll clerks. A lot of patients are missing from my salary every month, and my salary needs to be this long, and this is how much she's had. When she said, her medical bills were cut, her medical fees were cut off, didn't they say? Don't those people go out there all day looking for their rights and go back to their helpless, helpless homes? You're doing politics, you're doing politics in the hall, you're doing politics in the streets, and everyone knows that today this issue is a hump on the patient's back, and they don't know what they're paying for it, and they're always getting money out of their pockets. Mr. Secretary, if we're sincere, if the job we're doing isn't going to bring in the new turnout to the patient, we're going to make a motion in a moment, let's say that there will be no additional participation in any treatments, services, medicines, this arrangement date, and then we'll believe that you don't bring in new participation shares, but you're not sincere about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm reporting you to our people on this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0058par0513	Thank you, Mr. Special. Speeches for the group are complete. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Genghis Yavilioğlu, Erzurum MP. Mr Yavilioğlu, come in, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0059par0519	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise to the esteemed lawmakers about Social Insurance Number 171 and the Amendment to the General Health Insurance Act. I salute your committee. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, it's hard to fix the problems of years in the social security system with one law, and it's a process to achieve the ideal system. This arrangement aims to address the losses that have been inflicted on our citizens, who retired under Law 506 prior to 2000, due to their monthly change in systems and the lack of reflection of the rise in monthly rates. As it is known, the difference between SEC pensions is due to changes in the monthly computation system over the years. Dear friends, the effort to raise the welfare level of the country, one of the main tasks of the social state, should not be to burden future generations while trying to make a part of it happy for a certain period of time. The sustainability of innovation is the most important issue. With the economic crisis in the world, the process is governed by the least hardship and best performance, thanks to the measures taken by our government. Therefore, changes in the economic and social system are also done by budget balance and, again, the entire economic and social system is considered. Dear friends, the bill we're discussing has been criticised at why the speed of development is limited to 75 per cent, why there is no regulation for after 2000, and again, why there is no minimum base monthly. In the implementation of 100 per cent of the rate of growth, there is an increase even in the wages of those who deposit three, six hundred days and minimums. In this case, the months that have already been supported by the system by implementing the sub-border monthly monthly allowance will be boosted once again, creating a new imbalance between the monthly areas of the lower border before 2000 and the monthly areas after 2000. So they'll get a high salary, even though they're underprivileged. In the system after 2000, partial monthly and post- 2000 bonuses for pre- 2000 studies are updated by 100 per cent of TUFE and the rate of development until the month's binding date. Thus, this arrangement is not implemented for after 2000. Underlying the social security system ensures that there is no monthly commitment, regardless of the amount of premiums paid and working days. This amount was set high before 2000 by the principle of the social state, and has been increased by the implementation of a higher increase in lower months and the increase in travel in the following years. So even though the person deserves lower months, given the premiums and working days, the months involved in this group were supported by the system. If the lower border application is taken into account, the system will increase in all months, and more importantly, it will receive the same increase as the one that retired from 3,600 days and the one that retired from 5,000 days. There is no doubt that social security systems are relevant to almost the entire community and are based on delicate balances. The changes that seem to be small on the system can initially start with a small angle of the scissors and result in an increase in the magnitude of the angle over time. Therefore, changes in the social security system must be very sensitive. Our country is still suffering from past misdeeds. The bill that we are currently discussing is to correct problems and system errors that have arisen in previous times. The EC PARTY governments also look at the optimal budget balance as they make arrangements for the system, taking into account the possible impacts of the future and the world conditions. Otherwise, the bill for the arrangements set to save the day comes back to haunt us later. Dear friends, there are about 2,700,000 pensioners who retire before 2000 and receive monthly pensions within the SGC. The bill is of interest to 1 million 913 thousand of these sectors. It is not possible for all segments to be satisfied with a single legal arrangement to resolve the problems that have become years of failure. As a result, the proposed bill is a process, a beginning, a process to achieve two basic goals in the coming years. To this end, it is primarily to address the injustices caused by the change in the monthly binding system, the realisation of pensions from today's perspective, and then the real protection of these months. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0060par0533	Thank you, Mr. Yavilioğlu. Now the Minister has a request for word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0538	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, we have heard the opinion of our dear friends on the 2nd Amendment. Again, I thank you, but I find it appropriate to make these statements: First of all, we don't have any insights that can be deciphered. We both know that we, as a political movement, are in favor of transparency as a government, and that all of our work here is in full disclosure of our arrangements, and all of our public opinion is aware, you all know that. So, what did we keep secret about it, what did we keep hidden? I said this to tell the pensioners that we have a yearly payment to 92 billion liras, and that's why I said that, as the government has taken responsibility for this, how to explain an additional 38 billion burdens, how to be associated with it, how to be associated with economics and financial management. There's nothing we're hiding here, nothing we're hiding. Maybe I'm trying to point out something that's not understood here, and it's this: social benefits within the framework of social government and social security within the framework of insurance logic, are not being understood or try not to be understood. I'd like to express that in particular. We, the government, would like to point out how much we care about social benefits as a part of the social government, how much we care about that, how much we make a ministry of that, and sometimes we face your criticism as opposition. What you're saying is that you're handing out alms to the nation. You're saying that this is exactly what the social government should do, which is that we're doing a serious transfer of resources, support. But if you don't put the social security system on the balance of blessings and trust, if you don't deal with this insurance logic, then woe to your insurance system. That's what they did in the past, that's what happened in the past. Turkey left this road so that it would not return to them, and while actually being a social state doing social benefits, the insurance policy required, it puts the social security system on a healthy basis, puts its main criteria on it, and tries to improve it. Now, when we don't look like this, I think we'll do something seriously wrong. There's no way to defend it against the public. Look, it's untenable. Now, this is a delicate matter. When you look at budget pencils, social security has budget transfers, budget deficits, social security deficits. I don't think populist approaches are right when we're supposed to be working together on how to absorb them in the context of the social state, how to reduce them. Now another example was given here. For example, a dear friend of ours came out, gave a speech here, saying: let's not take the premiums when we collect the BUG-KUR. There's no configuration for BUG-KUR, there's no default debt. So, what's going on? What's happening is, he owes a lot of credit, and he's looking back. Remember, when you paid for it, it was 20 per cent, 20 per cent before the reform was done, so the health premium was 20 per cent, and we drew it to 12.5 per cent. We've moved the premium debt, which is 40 per cent in the BUG-KUR, to 32.5 per cent. Now, when the health share is 12.5% here, when you're paying your debt to the past, let's separate the health from here, let's not pay the health premium as a loan, how do we explain an approach to the state? You've had some kind of medical care in the past, and you haven't paid your dues or your premiums when you took that service. Don't pay the medical premium when you pay it. I don't find the approach right. On the contrary, while we were carrying out this reform, one day a merchant with a premium debt in BUG-KUR was being turned around from hospital doors, and he couldn't go to the hospital. We've got it up to 60 days, up to two months. If he had a two-month bonus, he'd have a problem after that, and now he'd be facing serious problems, which, even one day, owed him a bonus. In the same way, one of our fellow workers, a citizen of the USSR, who was covered by 4/A, could not benefit from health without paying 90 days or three months of premiums, and the wife and children could not benefit from health without paying a hundred and twenty days or four months of premiums. While our sister-in-law was unable to use health care and health services for two hundred and forty days, eight months without paying bonuses, all of which were both public employees and citizens, both from the SEC/KURL and our citizens, all equal to the idea of being a first-class citizen, each of which was allowed to benefit from health care as a result of the month's notification. It's a painting that none of us would approve of here, if we could just ignore it and go back again and take a disruptive approach to the system. Now, what we're doing here is we're going to take the 10 percent, 20% of the participation in this drug, the ratio, the base of the drug that's being brought in on this stuff, and we're going to take it to 1 percent. From one to 20, we don't raise the ceiling. Sir, are you doing the math here? What in God's name is there that's so obvious, so secret? I mean, if I'm supposed to do 5% on a drug, if the law doesn't give me this opportunity, where are we going to make this arrangement? If I have to do 15 per cent, should the law not give this authority in this arrangement, should we be forced to give you 10 per cent in a drug where we have to give you 5 per cent participation, the law says that such an approach is out of the question in the state of law.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0062par0543	You brought it. Sir, aren't you the one who passed the law, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0544	Wherever you have to reflect your participation, you have to have that flexibility from 1 to 20... But if you had said here that you would have been right, if we had brought it up, not 20 percent, but 30 percent, if we had said that we were raising it to 40 percent, you would have said, "You're raising the ceiling here, do you have an opportunity for a new injustice, or do you have an account facing a citizen's pocket?" Now, about the other things: Look at the turnout. The turnout is 1 billion 173 million. I'm saying the sum. The drug turnout is 1 billion and 100 million. A total of $2 billion, 273 million. Now, as for our total spending, we have 14 billion, 144 million drugs, and I'm telling you as a Social Security Agency. Our treatment costs are 21 billion, 848 million liras. Our total costs of medicine and treatment are $36.5 billion, 36.5 quadrillion Social Security. So, what's the turnout in medicine and treatment, the examination? There's 2.2 billion or 2.2 quadrillion turnouts. It's a five-and-a-half-six percent turnout... it's not a secret turnout. Our free friend here tells us that it's as if all citizens are coming to a new arrangement for health, and they're being devastated. There's no such thing. If our citizens are watching us in the hospital corridors right now, if they're watching us in the hospital rooms...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0063par0548	You have silenced the television, and they cannot watch; you have silenced Parliament TV, and they cannot watch it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0549	I mean, they know exactly what we're doing here. His pleasure is obvious, whatever you say. If you look at it as a vote, his satisfaction is obvious, and if you look at health practices, he's in the hospital hallway, at his door, in his room, his satisfaction is obvious, and they're unhinderable facts. Let me put it another way: look, the total application...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0064par0551	Why are you changing the law if he's pleased, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0552	We're changing it. I just explained it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0065par0553	If the citizen is satisfied, why change it? No, then what you're saying is wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0554	Sir, can this happen? So life goes on, and you say, "We're going to maintain the static, standard form of existence."
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0066par0555	You passed the law, you criticize the law, and in this regard, your citizen...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0556	Sir, yes, Mr. President, see, we're bringing in the biometric system in article 1 to prevent abuse in the system. Then the Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't have to work. As the needs arise, this is the place to solve the needs, so let's just say that.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0066par0557	You brought in 10 percent minimum, self-criticizing.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0558	Another issue: 27 per cent of all applications take place in the emergency room, 37 per cent from chronic diseases, a total of 64 per cent. And we don't get a 1 per cent turnout from a patient who's in bed when it's legal. 64% of the drugs are currently not covered; 36% of the drugs are taken. I'm going to ignore these numbers when the table is so open, and I'm going to say that it's an unfair and unfair approach, as if it's going to be taken from all citizens, from heavy drugs, from cancer patients, from everyone, from everyone.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0066par0560	The pensioner has no power, Mr. Secretary, he doesn't.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0561	The arrangement is perfectly appropriate. I wish him well.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0066par0562	You even get paid for candy bars.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0061par0563	And thank you for your contribution.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0067par0565	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of his people, Mr. Necdet Ünuvar, the Adana MP. Mr. Unuvar, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0068par0570	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge to express my personal views on the 2nd article of the proposed bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there has just been a conversation on this stand where very unfortunate statements have been used. There has been a conversation about health care that I don't really fit in with my friend who's talking and who's not really on the stand. On the one hand, the customer's satisfaction was critical of a concept that had been used from a long time ago, while, forgive me, I did not refer to my friend who spoke to the person who was talking about an illegitimate business that people did in foreign exchange offices and the health system. For that reason, while I was undersecretary of Health, my dear friend was Secretary General of the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, and together, at the time, we did some very important things about people's access to the health system, and when I was expressing their highly appreciated feelings... Dear friends, let me put it this way, it was really hard for people to have access to health. I've been a doctor in many parts of Turkey, and when I said to Minister Bey, I'm very tired. When I said to him, "I'm very tired," he asked me, "How many green card holders have you dealt with in the time of doctoring?" I said, "I've dealt with 10 or 15 green cards in order to supply their medicine." I said, "I'm very tired. I'm very tired." So, I consider these statements to be really unfortunate expressions. During the time of our government, truly, the Turkish human has achieved more generous health care than any other country in the world. Our SSC workers are not only condemned to their own hospitals or pharmacies. Our citizens with green cards have had access to health care, just like our brothers and sisters sitting here, and no doubt the government will take measures to provide services. But the compassion of our state is indeed appreciated by our citizens, which is why the approval polls for our citizens have increased from 39 per cent to 73 per cent. In addition, the baby in the health indicators descends from 28.5 to 9.1 per thousand at the rate of death, to 15.5 per hundred thousand at the rate of the mother's death, to 15.5 per hundred thousand at the rate of her death. In terms of financial protection, it is our people's appreciation that the spending of the citizens from the 32 per cent of the money has already gone from the 32 per cent to the 12th. So, dear friends, there's no doubt that the opposition will be critical, but the criticism must be merciful and must not offend people on the one hand. In that sense, it's really important that we get where our health care is coming from. Of course, during our rule of law, the Social Security Act was passed. Health is a living system, and there are demands and changes of our permanent citizen, and there are certain legal arrangements that are appropriate for it. So, look, we're talking about the ten percent reduction of the turnout we're talking about, and that's what we're talking about. In fact, I see the expectation of our government growing, so the more we do, the more we see our citizens demanding. And since we're already paying for it, the citizen is giving us more than we deserve. So we'll continue to work at the point where our citizens are safer, healthier, and more prosperous, and at the point where our citizens are healthier, more prosperous, the EC will do its part, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0069par0579	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0070par0580	Mr. President, Mr. Unüvar has just spoken of me without question, without doubt, and made an unrealistic statement. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to clarify.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0068par0581	I hope you'll correct that shameful statement. Hopefully, you'll correct them, that's a dirty statement.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0069par0582	Please, sir, in two minutes, without further discussion.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0070par0585	There's no flaw in the analogy. I'm correcting those statements, Mr. Undersecretary, if it's offensive, if it's necessary to correct them, and saying that I'm using the money in people's pockets to withdraw it against their will, without realizing it. Now, what's rude and... I'm just saying one thing very clearly. Mr. Unüvar was the Secretary General of the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals when I was just here as Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health. Did he say he would welcome us and work together? Mr. Unüvar, as far as I can tell from the Capitol album, I do, but is it true that you were elected Adana MP in the July 22nd 2007 elections, and therefore you left your post months ago? I was elected on 12 December 2007, just six months after the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals was named Secretary General. The fact that I served in the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union with you, as you are Undersecretary, is unrealistic. I've always been against the system where you consider the patient to be a commercial customer, a meta, and a person to exploit the pharmacist, and you turn people into commercial customers in the name of health. There's nothing I say about this system that's very flattering. But if I had worked with you, I would have shown the same kind of kindness to Mr. Acar. On the basis of human relations with Mr. Minister, whom I would never want to break. This kindness would not change the fact that the system you've established is just outside of my worldview and completely playing with the health of people. I want to make it clear to you that I have never worked at the same time as you, that I have not complimented your government or your administration.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0071par0590	Thank you, sir. [[Continue]] Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-answer procedure on the matter. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Aslanoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0072par0598	Mr. Secretary, we know that continuity is essential in the state. Since 2001, when you were acting head of the group and the Minister, we bring in the law on the muhtars. Whenever I speak here... will there be law on the chiefs now? The Mukhtars are social... especially with a lot of chiefs in debt, they can't pay. When does a building that you pay $370 and get a $350 BUG-KUR bonus end, when will that law come?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0071par0599	Thank you. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0073par0601	Minister, when do you plan to break the implementation regulations of the Employment Law? There's been no law enforcement regulations, so there's a problem. Likewise, risk assessment regulations have not been published, and there is a problem with that. Retired job inspectors don't get IDs, so there's a website for retired investigators. And the physical structure of the Social Security Group Chairman in Istanbul is very bad. Are you planning on moving them to a new place? In addition, public institutions are not primarily fulfilling their duties in hiring disabled people who are 12 per cent of our population. Do you plan to take more challenging measures in this regard, starting with CITs and public institutions? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0074par0606	Thank you. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0075par0608	Minister, on January 6, 2005, we transferred SEC hospitals to the Ministry of Health through Law 5283. In that Law, the first joke of Article 4 is Number 2. During a ten-year period of time, the costs of SEC hospitals were transferred by the treasury to the SGK. There were procedures that needed to be done, and at the beginning, the costs would be determined. Now, has the subject of the revolution been determined? If it's been determined, how much is it? Since the Council of Ministers is seven years behind the ten-year period, did they schedule such a work? Or in this one is also the temporary passage of the SEC, Law 506... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, a sentence...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0074par0611	Thank you, sir. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0076par0613	Mr. Secretary, the clinics of thousands of doctors and dentists are closed as a result of policies adopted under the name "Change Reform in Health." Doctors, dentists, assistant medics, secretaries, and dental technicians who worked in these clinics were suddenly unemployed. Do you plan to provide a public job for thousands of people who have suffered this injury, or an ease in paying bonuses? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0074par0615	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0077par0617	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, part of the treatment contribution in hospitals is being collected by pharmacists. Both pharmacists and citizens are seriously disturbed by this. So you're thinking of putting an end to the collection of money from pharmacies to be collected by these hospitals? Secondly: As is known, the income testing period for green card holders expired yesterday. Meanwhile, many citizens are known to be unable to take an income test, and because of the winter conditions, many have not been able to go from villages to towns or cities. Do you intend to extend that time? How do you plan on destroying the casualties that come out of here? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0078par0621	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0079par0623	Thank you, Mr. President. We just heard from the Minister. One thing I've noticed -- not about the issue -- is that every member of our minister who comes up here, when it comes to opposition, you make a statement about how many votes have been taken, how the citizen trusts you. Okay, 50 percent of the vote may have been taken, but I want to know one thing: do you not count the other 50 percent as citizens, do you not count them as people? On this matter, please, I'd like you to say a few words to the other 50 percent. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0080par0626	Thank you, Mr. Onur. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0081par0628	Sir, there's time. I'm renegotiating. My question was incomplete.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0080par0629	Sir, there's no such thing as leftovers. One minute for everyone, and now it's been two seconds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0631	Sir, thank you. 50% of the vote is important in political debates, debates. In the ministry, there is no ▪ There is no 50 percent of it; 75 million people are served. And the arrangements we make are 70 percent, but if it's being listened and watched with a political ear, then it shouldn't bother the 50 percent, because it's the will of the nation, and I think it should make us happy, even if we're in opposition, because it's the need of democracy. As for other issues: about the Mukhtars -- you know, because I'm the Minister of Social Security -- we've arranged for a five-day study, a month's insurance, our village chiefs. Again, over the past term, we've increased the chief's salary to onefold with a decree of law enforcement. And now our Home Office is making an arrangement, doing the work under the Village Law. I believe that the point of this is being expressed in a much healthier way by our Minister. Other questions: Participation is collected from pharmacies, but as you know, these accession shares are collected by the institution for private hospitals, where participation in public and university hospitals are collected from pharmacies. Our protocol with the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association has been a very successful and good protocol, followed by the satisfaction of both sides.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0083par0635	Pharmaceuticals aren't happy, the League can.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0636	So you see, in the form of democracy, the Chosen League is our business, and by law, our business. So, we've put them on 25 cents a prescription, an app that hasn't been implemented so far. Turkey has 350 million prescriptions annually so far. At 25 cents a prescription, we've paid a little bit for the service they've done. I'd like to express that this agreement is in satisfaction.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0083par0637	Mr. Secretary, I'm a man who witnessed a public quarrel with a pharmacist.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0084par0638	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0639	So there may be some local issues, that apply to any area.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0083par0640	Look, it's all over Turkey, Minister, and you know it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0641	Sir, I was in Turkey's three counties this week. I get most thanks and congratulations from pharmacists. I'm making it very clear. Why don't you come visit, you'll see?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0083par0642	Then you're visiting pharmacists who are happy about it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0643	So a very successful deal has been made.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0085par0644	What pharmacists? AKP pharmaceuticals?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0083par0645	Mr. Minister, ask your MPs, the AK PARTY MPs, this problem in every province.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0646	As for the other issues, the Ministry of Health has expressed the age of hospitals. It's been handed over, you know, we've combined hospitals, the service has started from one centre, and all the pharmacies have started to buy medicine. The cost of this era has been determined by working with our Ministry of Health. The transfer process is now in progress.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0086par0647	I asked you about the amount, how much?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0648	Rather than the extension of the income test, the green card holders in particular, you know, 9,300,000 green card holders have entered into general health insurance. The visas for these will have to be issued within a month. So this limitation is not right in the form of February 28-29. They can apply for visas, but other than that, there are 1,700,000 people who have never associated themselves with social security, who have been notified. If they run and report income tests within that month, they'll be in one of the relevant categories associated with social security, general health. They already know that if they don't report it, they'll get a bonus of $212. Sir, there's a question about hiring disabled people. On April 29th, we are conducting a public-related disability exam, and there are now about 23,000 quota deficits. We're trying to fill this up quickly. The necessary regulations, the necessary arrangements, have been redone, and will be carried out on 29 April. In private...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0087par0651	Madam Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0082par0652	Well, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0087par0653	Congressmans, there are three motions on the matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment to the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mahir Ünal Ahmet Aydın Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Ercoshkun Zeyid Aslan "The second joke of Article 2-55510 of the Law is added to the following sentence to follow the second sentence. "The Minister of Labour and Social Security is in charge of lowering the accession share of health services from above (b) and (c) dams to 1%, on the institution's proposal. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask that Article 2 of the Law bill be changed in the following way, as follows, to make changes in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu İzzet Çetin Aytuğ Atcı Levent Sky Free Special Kemal Milldere "Article 2-5510 68. In the second sentence of the article's second joke, "10%" was changed to "%1", and the following sentence was added at the end of the same joke. ▪ There can be no turnout from drugs or drug groups that have not been taken in the history of this arrangement. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework Article 2 of Law Bill 171 be changed in the following way. Oktay Vural Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Emin Haluk Ayhan Reşat Right "In the second sentence of Article 2-5510 of Article 68 in the second sentence of Article 68, the sentence "10%" has been changed to "%1", third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh sentences have been removed from the text." Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0088par0680	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0087par0681	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0089par0682	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0090par0683	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0087par0684	Read the reason, please. It is intended to be removed from paying an additional amount of medicine per box, due to an important financial burden to pensioners and pensioners, who are already living on a scarce basis. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We ask that the 2nd amendment of the 2nd Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is listed in 171 rows, be changed in the following way. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends "The second sentence of Article 2-5510 of Article 68 in the second sentence of Article 68 has been changed to the "10%" statement "%1" and added the following sentence at the end of the same joke. ▪ There can be no turnout from drugs or drug groups that have not been taken in the history of this arrangement. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0091par0695	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0087par0696	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0092par0697	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0093par0698	Mr. Special, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0087par0699	Manisa MP Free Special on the motion, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0094par0700	I salute you, High Council. We, as new lawmakers, sometimes don't realize what a blessing this Civil Code is. Because a motion has just been read. The motion is ours. We say: "There will be no further participation in medicines that have not been taken before. " Does the Minister agree? He doesn't agree. What did he just say? He said, "We have no intention of bringing in new participation shares." And I say, the question of reducing 10 percent to 1. It's not a question of reducing a turnout, it's a question of flexibility from 1 per cent to 10 per cent, which is not possible to receive a zero per cent turnout, and it's a question of getting a ten per cent turnout from at least 10 per cent to 10 per cent. If the Minister's statements reflect the truth, what's the harm in agreeing to this motion or adding a sentence to it? You're saying you're not going to bring in a new turnout that you haven't received so far. But you can't say... that I think it's necessary to support our motion. And I, of course, can't say anything about my personal, private law with the Minister, and I don't want to say anything other than what he said, but I have to make a correction by thinking that the Minister isn't listening to my entire speech. Mr. Secretary just said that the share of medicine is $1.1 billion. That's right. The examination also said the turnout was $1.17 billion. Right. He collected two, $2.2 billion. Okay. The total amount of money received is six percent of all medicines and treatment costs. There's no such thing. I counted nine things here. Let me continue, Mr. Minister: Is the prescription fee $3 lira and is there a 311 million prescription written in Turkey last year? When you multiply each of them by $3, does that make $1 billion? He'll do it. Did patients pay $1.5 billion for drugs your agency didn't pay for as a equivalent drug price difference? Let's write it down. There's an extra dollar a box. Are 1.5 billion boxes of drugs sold in Turkey a year? If you sell it, will it make $1.5 billion? He'll do it. If you drop the intersection set from this, I won't object, the first three boxes and the ongoing box. After that, the special hospital difference... when you add these up, it's $6 billion. What did I say? I said it's over 40 percent of the total drug spending. The total drug spending -- you've testified -- for $15 billion, the ratio of 6 billion to 15 billion is very clear. Oh, if you're going to tell me the total amount of medicine and treatment, then I say, let's collect the special hospital difference fees, collect the medical differences, collect the early examination rates, collect the primary examination fees, raise the total. So it turns out that if I just divide it into medicine, it's 80 percent. And if you divide it by the number that you want, there's another number there. My testimony is clear, precise and consistent with the transcripts. So I have no problem talking to the numbers and talking to the figures from the statistics that your agency publishes every month. There's a little bit more need to fix this. We're talking about the principle law, and I've taken the word of the Commission to state that we're talking about something that's been patented by the People's Party of the Republic. He's not in politics, but if he has a right to compensation, the Republican People's Party will ask you for compensation and win because the principle law is a bridge of the heart between a retired Republican People's Party and is a definition and expression that the Republican People's Party has patented. The Minister said later: there is no such thing. In 2007, I intended to take initiative. If you look at them, the minister said, "I did an intuitive study for 1,615 people, but the ministry didn't have enough time. " Two million people, in their own words, have expressed for 1,600 people in 2007 what 10 million people look forward to, and they say that they are the real owners of the initiative, and then they say that four years later, in terms of the Ministry and the institution, there was no real regression period of Omar Dinçer, and that they didn't have a finger on this issue. However, if we go back to the principle law, the expression of the principle law is equal to the political age of the President of the Republic's People's Party, which is referred to as the former Republican People's Party. Since the day Kemal Kilicdaroglu entered politics, he underlines the pensioner's attitude problem and states that this needs to be resolved. If there's a patent, it's ours. I'm always surprised by the various phrases in Asia Minor, the euphemisms, the phrases of the same name, but that's where it comes from. When the man thinks that his rights have been defeated, he says: "O citizens, the real, self, unique law is the law of the People's Party of the Republic. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0095par0708	Thank you. Congressmans, I submit to you the motion that the Commission and the government disagree: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment to the Law on Social Insurance and General Health Insurance shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "The second joke of Article 2-55510 of the Law is added to the following sentence to follow the second sentence. "The Minister of Labour and Social Security is in charge of lowering the accession share of health services from above (b) and (c) dams to 1%, on the institution's proposal. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0096par0717	We'll leave it to appreciation.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0095par0718	Mr. Government?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0097par0719	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0098par0720	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit01spe0095par0721	Motive... The application of participation is intended to be flexible. Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0095par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 73°th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Bill 171. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The first joke (j) of Article 102 of Article No. 3-5510 has been changed in the following way. According to Article 9 of Article 9's (a) first joke (a) report on the end of the insurance policy, it is necessary to keep the ballots on Article 506, on account of these actions in the temporary Article 20 of the Law, on the beginning or end of the polls, on the basis of the execution of the document, on the duration of the term or on the basis of the period of which the institution has been determined, or on the basis of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of the amount of amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of money, the amount of money, the amount of the amount of money, the amount of money, the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of money, the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of the amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of amount of First speaker for the groups, İdris Bauken, Bingol MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Baluken, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0099par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a commitment to Article 3 of the Law Bill 171. I salute your committee. Before I go into my speech, I'd like to share a piece of news I just received here in Turkey with the public. Mr. Halis Citizen has been taken into custody as part of a long-standing political genocide operation against our party. I condemn these political genocide operations from here again in the Civilist person. It was about this bill that we've now discussed, and it was actually a situation that all of our retired citizens have been waiting for for, in some way, for the last 20 years, and they were hopeful. It would have wanted that the arrangement, at the point of meeting the twenty-year expectations of our retired citizens, and bringing important arrangements for social and social relief that would be expected, but while this law was being discussed, it was unfortunately not observed, such as the partnership of political parties, civil society organisations, professional organisations, different parts of the community. Again, as always, I did, and it was done. With an understanding like this, this law was brought to Parliament's agenda. The basic demand of all social layers here was that the law of attitude was discussed, especially when arrangements were made on the hunger border in Turkey, the poverty limit and the minimum income index, and the regulation of pension fees accordingly brought an important social relief. As we know, Turkey currently has an average hunger limit of around 1,200 euros. Again, the poverty limit for a family of four is between 2,500 and $3,500. So there was an opportunity in this law, in fact, at the point where all pensioners were mentioned, to meet at a price above the poverty line and to eliminate the inequality, but we see that this opportunity is not well assessed. Now, the unappreciated opportunity brings a situation: Currently, in Turkey, our current retired citizens -- that's a figure of over 9 million -- are being paid under the hunger limit, and therefore there was a very serious expectation of our 9 million people. Yesterday, he said, while speaking here, pensioners were not oppressed by inflation, and a number of arrangements were made over TÜFE figures explained by TÜİFE twice a year. We've already stated before in the Assembly General Assembly that TİKİK (TİKTİK) has tried not only to detect a particular set of data objectively, but to clear government policies and to make the government's current economic indicators look good, but also to flip the numbers and formulas. Now, I'd just like to point out a few things in terms of understanding: look, this is where we can see how much the cuts in real life conflict with these TIFE numbers. Right now, there's a very serious loss of electricity bills all over our country. In bills worth 51 TL, our citizen pays like 104 TL. As this number increases, so does the amount taken back. For example, the repayment of an electric bill of 57 TL is reflected in the form of $190. Now, when we're making some sort of inflation-related determination here, or when we're making arrangements for the living standard of pensioners, while we're making some arrangements for the living standard of workers, we're more likely to take such real cuts from the approach of the TİKIK to review the formulas that we're talking about, which we're talking about, and it's more efficient in terms of social and social justice. In gasoline, Turkey is the most tax-paying people in European Union countries on its motorcycle. There's over 60 per cent tax burden for gas, over 55 per cent tax burden for the engine, and so does natural gas. In these heavy winter conditions, it is not really possible to pay a gas bill on a pension. Dear lawmakers, the hardships of our retired citizens make you feel in every aspect of life. The speaker, our orator friends have pointed out here that a pensioner who went to the hospital, after these recent arrangements, has a huge increase in health expenditures under the name of the patient's guarantee package. Therefore, we need to put this kind of harm-resolvement in front of us as a basic goal when we bring this kind of law to the agenda or bring it to the General Assembly or we discuss it with the Commission. What is done here is not an industry law, but an internal arrangement that aims to equalise SEC pensioners to pensioners after 2000. It is far from a law of principle that meets the general expectations of public opinion. Now, here yesterday, Mr. Minister, speaking about pensioners again, particularly the global crisis photo, said that pensions, pensions, and pensions in Europe have been restricted continuously, but pensions have been made in Turkey because the crisis has been fought well. Look, here I want to share with you the pensions, minimum pensions in just a few countries: 1,300 euros in Ireland, 1,400 euros in the Netherlands, 2,800 euros in Belgium, 800 euros in pensions in Greece, which are currently in the grip of the crisis. Thus, when comparing the picture with Europe, we need to discuss it here and share it with the public. Of course, if these figures don't satisfy the Minister, let's invite him to Turkey's tourist destinations in a month. Let him go and see for himself how the European pensioners came to our country and vacationed in the beauty of our country, in Antalya, in Beltah, in Belek, in Nemrut, in the Kaz Mountains. Of course, while he's reviewing this photo, he's gonna need to consider whether there's a Yozgat peasant there, if there's a Kırşehir farmer, if there's a Bingöllan pensioner. The picture is this: let alone the people who are trying to retire in our homeland, let alone in the belt, and let alone in our homeland, all of our people are busy serving the pensioners, who I just brought here -- just as I said yesterday -- through the cheap labor force of our people! Thus, this injustice needs to be corrected and arrangements to be made. I'd like to reiterate that the expectation was that a number of serious revisions, especially over the minimum income index, the poverty line or the problems that our pensioners have experienced, and that our people's twenty-year expectations would be met. Mr. Minister, of course, tried to explain that they weren't done, with a number of facts and figures in the country's economy, but we don't think he had the right to say that from here. Because when the budget budget for the Ministry of Labor and Social Security was being restricted in budget talks, we tried to come out here and announce our voice most effectively, that the Ministry of Labor and Social Security or the Ministry of Health's budget should not be cut down, but we all know that this sort of arrangement should be made, rather than the security-axis, defence-axis budgets, to address the current injustices. Finally, I'm going to end my words by saying that there's a very high expectations in society. In particular, we have seen the victims of our citizens who are unable to retire because of their age, in the talks of our dear fellow lawmakers. There is at least a high level of expectation in society. We all wish that our Minister would work on an arrangement for this. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0100par0022	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mr. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Belen.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0101par0026	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 3 of the draft law on the amendment of Social Insurance No. 171 and General Health Insurance Act. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, on February 26, 1992, I am recommending the establishment of the Azerbaijan flags at the stadium, the authorities who allowed the Azerbaijan flags to be opened in the town of Hoshan, and in the rally of the Sunday meeting of the teacher massacre, Armenian President Sarkisyan and his friend, Mr. President Abdullah Gul. By the way, I also say that I condemn and disapprove of those who carry banners that are insulting at this rally. I wonder if the President of the Commission had any words for those who were walking around saying, "We are all Hrant. We are all Armenians" at the rally on the Hrant Dink case. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the main duties of the social state is to keep the welfare levels of everyone living in the country high. Of course, our citizens, who have contributed to the development of this country by working most of their lives, paying taxes and adding value to this country, want to maintain a comfortable and peaceful retirement at the end of their working life. Basically, the most important group to have human standard of living is our pensioners, but the least profitable groups in our society are our retired citizens. Mr. President, this bill, which has been brought to parliament's agenda and known as the law of public opinion, is in many ways flawed and too incomplete to meet demands. The dictionary means that harmony or two measures are consistent, but this bill has brought limits, not all pensioners, but only some of them. This law, in its meaning, should include all our retired citizens, and should be able to compensate for the salary differences between pensioners. According to statements by Social Security Agency officials, the number of pensioners retired before 2000 and receiving monthly pensions is 2,700,000 people, but the number of people brought into the scope of the bill is 1,913,000. With this law, pensioners, widows and orphans receive a certain amount of improvement in their salaries, but improvement in pensions below the age of starvation and further expansion of the healing scope are expected by society. So the problem of eliminating 800,000 people will be eliminated. In fact, the principle law should have taken over not only the pensioners before 2000, but after 2000, and that was the way it should have been brought to Parliament. The bill is envisioned to move to January 2008, based on the year-end TÜFE increase rate and the rate of GDP development from January 2000 to January 2008, but is based on 75 per cent of the informal domestic growth rate. The rights for pensioners are being imposed here, while 100 per cent should be accounted for. At the same time, the scope of the BUG-KUR-KUR is very narrow, and the hours of our citizens from BUG-KUR are not taken into account for their purchase of a high pension by buying a step. According to Law 3395, dated June 20, 1987, our citizens who applied for super-retirement and met the terms are between 75 and $100. These pensioners need to be evaluated by adding to their original bonus days. Both the SSC and the BUG-KUR are ignored by the disparity of pensioners from 2000. In particular, the issue of the high decline of pensions for services after October 2008 has been completely ignored. The highest amount of $322, which is said to be paid according to the current bill announced by the Labour and Social Security Minister, can be received by pensioners who have been serving 38 years and who have paid a premium of thirteen, four hundred days from the highest ceiling of the upper indicator. Among our current retired citizens, there are very few of them. Mr. President, even though these disparities between pensions have pledged to be met over the years, the AKP government has not kept that promise, nor has its intention to keep it. In his statement in January 2010, Mr. Omar Dinçer, the Minister of Labour and Social Security, in response to the earlier demands of the law, which was intended to be passed, there is no way to get out of it technically. As a cost, we can't do it. He said, "We can't do it." He said, "We can't do it." But oddly, the new Minister narrowed it down to $2.7 billion on a magic wand. The sentence issued on Article 3 of the law is required to reduce the sentence to a minimum of 1 tenth of the amount of the sentence to employers who have not submitted the notices of quitting work only in the duration of their term. However, there are fines on other benchs of Law 5510, which are mentioned after the period of the declaration of entry to an insured job, as well as after the period of the notice of employment, and also after the arrival of rest information from other jobs -- four pens and four pens -- of administrative fines. There's no way to understand why the Ministry didn't give them a discount when they brought this law. I believe it has been chosen for a specific or institutional orientation. This individual or individual application is wrong, Minister, correct it. If you really want to do a righteous, fair job, bring a proper, honest, honest application to everyone, with a change in the 102th Amendment of Law 5510. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the National Movement Party, are prepared to contribute all kinds of support and contribution to the arrangement to address the inequality between pensions. This issue is also among our commitments to the election declaration. An attitude is not a blessing, it's not a demand for a raise in pensions. The initiative is the right of all retired citizens, and it is too late to be granted that right. Therefore, due to changes in the month's computation system in past years, the arrangement must be made to compensate for the inequality between pensions, as they carry the same conditions and retire on different dates. I, on behalf of my party group, wish the law to be good for our country and our pensioners, saying that this law contributes very little to raising the standard of our retired citizens' lives, and I respectfully salute the House.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0102par0039	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Hasan Ören, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Kören. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0103par0044	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the bill. It's really, really hard to understand, to interpret, about this policy. Our Minister says the law ofintigation, the Prime Minister says the law ofintigation, but unfortunately, we don't see any words of plagiarism passed within the bill. It's a good thing that on June 12th, the Republican People's Party made some commitments to the pensioners about the law. I'm guessing in those June 12th elections, the Republican People's Party's proposals for the initiative have activated the Justice and Development Party and have entered into preparation for the policy, but we see that the law has nothing to do with it. You're talking about a 2 billion 700 million improvement in this country, in which 9 million pensioners live. In fact, this improvement leads to the deception of our retired people, not contributing to the wealth of our retired people in social life. You remember -- all the MPs in the 3rd term remember, I don't think our new friends will remember -- you had an Emergency Action Plan in 2002. In the Emergency Action Plan, you were describing three months, six months, nine months, twelve months of proposals and how to enrich the social life of over 70 million people living in Turkey. But when you read from that Emergency Action Plan, how many things have you promised my friends, the AKP MP, that the new ones may not have seen him -- and how many things you've really promised him, such as this principle law, and you haven't fulfilled any of your promises. In this country, Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister, you promised green diesel in terms of increasing agricultural production within the Emergency Action Plan in that day -- you remember very well -- even the number -- that you would give green diesel to people who worked in agriculture for $600. You were talking about the WTV, the VAT, the removed medicine, the fertilizer. What you said was true because it was necessary to increase production. If production does not increase in Turkey, it is not possible to put wealth in the social life of 74 million if we cannot increase production in Turkey. Now, behind him, 600 lira diesel goes, the farmer deals with $4000 worth of diesel. You've been on television, Mr. Prime Minister said that if we come to power, whichever of us is in power, there will be no taxes on the minimum wage of labor and profit, but unfortunately the Justice and Development Party that came to power in 2002, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is Prime Minister today, has added a lot of taxes on the minimum wage, let alone a minimum wage. My dear friends, this is a trick. What the Republican People's Party is saying is not the law of attitude. The Republican People's Party's principle law was a law proposal for the development of this country, the development of this country, the prosperity of this country, the labor of its country, and the profit of its pensioners. What we're going to give here, what we're going to distribute to pensioners, isn't $2 billion, 700 million. The Republican People's Party will distribute 11 quadrillion or at least 12 or 13 billion dollars today, and those pensioners deserve it. Sometimes you say, "O is in the Emergency Action Plan. " In that Emergency Action Plan, the people who have lived on nothing you have promised, anything you have said so far, have worked hard and worked hard. The Republican People's Party is clear in the June 12th elections. Now our citizens believe what the Republican People's Party says. This will not be the rule of the Republican People's Party. Retireds under the rule of the Republican People's Party will receive at least a billion dollars. If you are asking where is the source of this, you must first ask the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0104par0052	Where will you get the money?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0103par0053	Mr. Congressman says the audience can't hear. Where are you going to get the money? To answer: This citizen does not ask where you find money in the middle of Istanbul, where you declare over 100 billion dollars, over 100 billion dollars in Istanbul, but you have sold all of Turkey's assets, all of the republic's values, is it not right to give some to the pensioner, worker, peasant? What you're selling is all made in the history of the Republic. Now, you're going to raise money again by law 2/B. Well, don't pensioners, workers, farmers who live in this country share in this law 2/B, the lost forest land? Don't you have to give that money to the pensioner, to the worker, to the village, to the village, to the money that you're going to sell, to the money that we don't know how much you're going to raise? We told him about the family insurance. What are you doing now? You know, there's one thing you're all saying: "He won't see a hand in one hand. " The people in the street see what you give, and the people in the neighborhood see what you give.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0105par0057	The world sees the world.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0103par0058	You're bringing in 10 bags of coal in front of Auntie Fatma's house. What kind of hand doesn't see it? Do you have the right to play by that person? Now, from now on, you'll have to bring the family insurance, you'll have to bring it. It doesn't matter what the Justice and Development Party is disbanding, it must be distributed with a sense of state, that's what the Republican People's Party says. In the rule of the Republican People's Party, 10 bags of coal won't be poured into Aunt Fatma's house, with her dignity, with her dignity, with her poverty won't be shown to the whole neighborhood. 600 lira for Auntie Fatma, 700 lira will be deposited in the bank. Let Auntie Fatma go and get her $600 from the bank. Let Aunt Ayþe have her $600, and she'll know where to spend it. But those coals are being distributed by identifying the names of your mayors, your mayors, the people in the neighborhood. My dear citizens, my dear citizens, our people who live in Turkey, they have a proud and proud side, they want to return whatever they get, they want to return even AKP's coal, if they have nothing to do with it, they're going to read a Fatih or, you know, you understand, you're taking over that game of Aunt Fatma's about getting the votes in return for those coals. That's not going to happen in our power. In our power, whether he buys shoes for his grandson, buys coats for his bride, or buys coal with the money that lies in the bank with family insurance. Let him make up his mind. That's the idea of a social government. In this example, the amount of money you're giving me will not do you any good. The amount of money you're giving me will be worth 25 years in this country, and I'll be able to relax in 25 years, and I'll spend the rest of my years in peace. This is not the law of attitude. This is the law of deception. You're fooling people with this. It's not possible to make people's expenses comfortable in social life. But whatever you give, whatever you give, whatever you take is lawful. Even if you give me a dollar, it's lawful, 100 lira is lawful. We never vote against pensioners' salary. We'll say yes to this bill, $10, $20, $50, $9.5 million in pensioners. And don't let anyone doubt it. The pensioners, the people who work hard, are our crown, the true masters of this country. In the power of the Republican People's Party, I hope that the workers, pensioners, farmers will be given the proper value and that this bill will be used as the Republican People's Party. Yes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0106par0062	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Speeches for the group are complete. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç, Adana MP. Mr. Erdinç, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0107par0068	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 3rd Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171, which has been discussed. I hereby salute your high council. As you know, on Friday (February 24th), 12 of our citizens were lost in flood waters, 2 of our 12 citizens were rescued injured, 3 of our citizens were killed, and 7 of our citizens are continuing their search. From here, I offer the mercy of God to our citizens who lost their lives because of this incident, patience and condolences to their relatives. Dear lawmakers, in our republic's history, the SEC pensions have been calculated in six different systems so far. The changes in pension computing methods over the years have led to a different set of SSC pensions connected to different dates. It is intended to eliminate differences between pensions before 2000 and pensions after 2000, with the number of premium payments on the same day as this bill, known in public as theintibate law, to eliminate these differences. First of all, it's important to point out that attitude isn't a raise. Thus, this proposed bill does not include raising all pension levels unconditionally and unconditionally, raising high, high-monthly to low-month areas in low-month areas. It is intended to eliminate the inequality between pensions which have been retired at the same age but have been different from the same age, due to the change in monthly computing methods, which have been different in their pensions during their working life with the Law on Change in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance. In this framework, the monthlys, which were linked with the orientation arrangement prior to 2000, according to their current indicators, will be recalculated regardless of the lower limit; the calculated months will be updated by January 2008, using 75 per cent of each year's TÜFE, and the rate of development; the months that move to October 2008 will be increased by the month of January 2013. The implementation of this bill will not result in a reduction in anyone's salary. The increase in action will vary according to the number of days and the amount of premiums paid. Due to the high premium payment, there will be a higher increase in the monthly account than in those who have a higher number of indicators and those who have paid a higher bonus for longer. Dear MPs, Social Insurance No. 5510 and Article 102 of the General Health Insurance Act (J) have been added by Article 3 (J). The current regulation of the Law provides a minimum amount of administrative fine for those who do not make notifications within the duration of the law or who do not do them in accordance with the form and procedure set by the institution. A new regulation has been added in the Commission, as this administrative fine is being imposed on employers to bring them a very serious burden. The third article of the bill we are discussing reduces the amount of administrative fine to a tenth of the minimum wage, rather than a minimum wage. With this clause of the bill, there is a limit to reducing the administrative fine, as well as the amount of punishment that should be given due to these verbs in a calendar month. I wish our country and our nation the best of the bill we're discussing.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0108par0075	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. Now, on behalf of him, our MP, Mr. Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0109par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. And I've mentioned another thing before, that there is justice at the heart of the state, the foundation of the property, and that's very important. Sovereignty is an unconditional nation, but it has to be written that justice is the basis of property; justice is the basis of property; without justice, property is not very likely to continue. So we're here today to discuss a law to eliminate injustice. He's late, but there's also an effort that aims to deliver a right. As the National Movement Party Group, we don't find it enough, we find it incomplete, so justice is a whole, it's a whole, it also undermines social peace to ensure justice somewhere, so why haven't you lifted the burden on me? And there's a whining in the nation, but despite everything, it's a sincere effort to eliminate injustice. As the National Movement Party, our fellow speakers and I have expressed our support, but we also say that we are not qualified. Therefore, I've just asked the question, Mr. Secretary, you're in the process of delivering a right, there's a consequence of late payment of your birthright, the cost of delay. If it really is the government responsible for a non-employee outcome, which is not responsible for this policy, then it must pay the price of that responsibility. You're doing the policy, you're finding a big source of 2.7 billion, but you have to pay the price for the delay in handing over this right, that's what workers' pensioners expect from you, that's justice. That's the first thing I'm gonna say. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, I asked you again, but I mean, you couldn't answer. Now, there's about 6 million communities. These are the officers, the pensioners' pensioners, the widows and orphans of these pensioners, the rangers, the martyrs, the veterans, some of the residents, they work in the state, they serve the state, but they didn't get the salary increase in 2012. Whose fault is it? It's the government's responsibility for not taking the necessary measures to predict this day. The constitutional imperative, created by this referendum, has been waiting for you for 17 months. Since then, there must be a price to pay for this constitutional amendment or for failing to fulfill your commitments to society. You were going to give these officers a pay raise as of January 1st, and you didn't. 6 million civil servants, or civil servants, are a 20-million-dollar community with their relatives, and there's injustice here. Where there is no justice, my dear friends, is persecution. Cruelty does not suit a man. Cruelty, according to our faith, is a grave sin. Now, I'm asking you, when are you going to give these officers their pay raises? On what grounds are you holding him? This law is waiting on the subcommittee, why is it waiting? When will this law come out? There's also a process after this law, so it was the settlement commission, the government's decision, and it doesn't seem to be available until June. Now, every time you're late for your own debt, you make them pay a price for every day, you get the tardiness interest from the citizen, you start the raises as soon as you enter 2012, why are you delaying the officer's salary, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Government? So at this point, I have nothing to say to Mr. Secretary; I have a promise to the government, to the Prime Minister, to the AKP Group. One other thing: If you give it to me in June, will you pay for these delays at a delay? Dear friends, the end of the sentence is this: Where there is no justice, persecution prevails. Now, we, from time to time, have become this power of persecution. We say it on behalf of our nation. Now you have the power, you don't lack it, so let's complete it, but correct these injustices, pay the officer's salary increase, pay the delay interest in the return of your rights, and pay the delay. I've been promised that. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0110par0089	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Congressmans, we're going to do a QA on the matter. One of our friends who hacked into the system, Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0111par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there's a social security meeting scheduled for this month in Urbana, I think it's about the inspection of the inspectors. We've heard there's been some trouble with that. So there's trouble with both the place and the transportation. Why would such a... what was the cost of Urbana, between March 21st and March 25th? I'd appreciate it if you could fill me in on that. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0112par0095	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0113par0097	Thank you. I'm not asking.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0112par0098	You're not asking. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0114par0100	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to inform you of the Istanbul Labor Health Council report: In February, 42 workers died in a job murder. They were in the energy, construction and food industry. In particular these winter conditions, housing problems and working conditions make these conditions even heavier. WE lived in the recent Adana Kozan Gökdere Bridge Dam, where both the workers slaughtered nature and the worker. The floodgates exploded and 10 workers died before the construction was completed. Once again, we've come to the capital groups of water resources, the unsecured work. If the dam is owned by Energy and the producer company, your Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs must be responsible for the murders. I expect you to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0112par0102	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0115par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it possible for those who have reached the age of retirement and have not completed the term of service or the minimum premium payment to be able to retire by giving them a back-to-back loan? Is such an arrangement possible? Can we place this in this bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0116par0107	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0117par0108	Mr. Secretary, we have friends who are mayors in Turkey, but there are some who are from BUG-KUR, some who are insured, some who worked in the Retirement Ark, but there are a huge difference. If the mayor's office is a position in Turkey, just as he is a member of parliament, the gap between the mayors and the mayors continues in a very large way. What do you intend to do about the mayors, the destruction of this cliff? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0116par0110	Thank you. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0118par0112	Mr. Minister, I spoke out of the agenda yesterday and spoke to the Anadolu Agency about the pressure of the employer on employees, and I told a representative that Vice Principal Abubekir Şahin had blasphemed. The same administration today, the union in question, has called in its business representative, and you deserve to be fired. How can you complain to the Republican People's Party MP? He threatened to fire him and threatened to fire him. Now, I don't know either Abubekir Şahin, nor do I know the union's business representative, but you have to intervene in order to deal with the union workers or union representatives at work. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0119par0115	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0120par0117	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, as it is known, members of the county general assembly have taken the form of local parliament. Our fellow city councillors, who serve in the general assembly of the province, face a lot of risks, going to their positions at their own opportunity. They also don't have any insurance. Does your government plan to arrange their insurance status, their rights as a reward for the work done by our poor friends? There's a great need for that. So I'd like to ask your honor to consider this.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0119par0118	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0121par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to add to our previous speaker friend, and I'd like to bring that up. We've got over 50,000 villages and neighborhood heads, no social security, and they're serving funny money like $370. New developments have also made it impossible for them to gain income from their job as chief, from their population records, address arrangements, etcetera. So, I want to know if the chiefs have anything to do with fixing their rights, providing social security. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0122par0122	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0123par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. I just found out about the meeting of the Social Security Institution Guidance and Investigators in Şanlıurfa, and asked friends about the question. So, routinely, there's a meeting like this going on without checking in. Maybe it's the effect that I'm a Congresswoman, but the truth is, I'm definitely out of the question. I've just learned from your question. Besides, Glory is one of the glorious provinces of our country. I'm convinced that the meeting here may be right in every way. On another subject: I ask God's mercy on our citizens who lost their lives in the dam accident in Adana. As the Ministry of Labor, as you know, we have held a Congress of Business Health and Safety International and have joined this congress with 5,400 occupational health and safety professionals from the world. It was a very productive meeting, and one of the decisions we made there was that our country had a law in the field of occupational health and safety. We've completed these studies, and he'll probably be in the High Council by Monday. The property of this law is that all employees are covered. We're bringing in an arrangement that includes all employees, not just workers, in the field of occupational health and safety. What's his target? With occupational health, safety law, our goal is to take preventive measures without accidents, which is a preventive feature. It is not in the form of making evaluations after the accident, but in the course of taking the necessary precautions so that these incidents do not occur. It's a very important law. In the coming days, we'll be legalizing it here. Our relevant ministries are continuing their work on the accident in Adana, and our ministry's inspectors have been assigned. Indeed, it is they who will be brought to account for it. This often raises questions about those who wait for their age, even though debt or bonus days are sufficient for those who have reached retirement age. That's because, in fact, we're going through a transition period in social security. We have habits -- thirty eight, forty-year-old pension -- the new system -- our friends who ask the question know very well, so this arrangement was introduced by the government in the time of Anasol-M government -- where our valued friends were in it, and I said, "This is very true. This is one of the laws of insurance, which is the basis of transition, 4447. Now, with 5510, we've moved this to an arrangement that will make it healthier and longer-term. Again, in terms of old understanding, I would argue that we do not tolerate such approaches as borrowing again or interfering with the system. But if you say, "Politics too." I also say that as long as I sit in this chair, in the Ministry seat, I will stay away from a political approach to social security, a political statement.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0124par0129	Where will a sixty-five-year-old man get a job? You're gonna throw it away or throw it out on the street?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0123par0130	The question Mr. Cethin asks... is that at the age of sixty-five, our system is owned, our sixty-five-year-old citizens are taken care of, and our one-year-olds are taken care of, as well as all the young people who haven't taken a day out of the nineteen. For him, the system has nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0124par0131	You're saying we don't need it, let the sixty-five-year-olds go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0123par0132	Partial retirement, Mr. President. If you meet the partial pension requirements, you'll get retirement that way. I mean, the law is so...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0125par0133	Mr. President, time's up.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0123par0134	I have received the text of your speech yesterday... expressed by Mr. Cetin. I'd also like to state that under the authority of our Ministry, we will do our part in this matter. We continue our work on social rights, on mayors and members of the city general Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0126par0136	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0127par0137	Now, you're bringing in the attitude, and it's not populism for you, so make it better. Is it populism for the opposition? What's with the fasting and the sauerkraut? If you're not going to be populism, why do you bring this law, if you love your God? Don't bring it, if what you're doing is true, if you love God.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0126par0138	Congressmans, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd amendment of the 171-line law proposal. I would like to change the expression (ten to one) in the article to one in five. [[Tunceli]] Now, since the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to file the motions together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the expression of the letters and documents in Article 3 of the original bill 1/566, which has been discussed.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0128par0165	These are important, sir, important proposals from the AKP Group, I hope they agree!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0126par0166	Mr. Commission, do you agree with the six motions of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0129par0167	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0126par0168	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0130par0169	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0131par0170	Oh, come on! Come on, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0132par0171	You disagree, the ruling party's motions!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0133par0172	Motive?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0134par0173	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0133par0174	I'm reading the reasons: Reason: It is intended to use a plain language of expression. Since the other reasons are the same, I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 3rd amendment of the 171-line law proposal. I would like to change the expression (ten to one) in the article to one in five. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0135par0183	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0133par0184	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0136par0185	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0133par0186	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0137par0187	Mr. President, you see, the AKP has made six motions for the opposition not to speak, asking for the same word change in six. Our motion is to reduce the word "almost one tenth" to one fifth of this law. Of course, since the day the AKP came to power, it has been trying to feed the budget with constant penalties. You know the minimum wage is 886 liras, that's gross; it's 634 liras. Now, that's clear, gross, that's not specified either.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0138par0189	886, gross.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0137par0190	Guys, actually, that's a lot. Of course, it's very difficult for employers to report employees' entrances and exits, with insurance. These should not be subjected to severe punishments. Although it used to be the size of the minimum wage, but it was a big deal. Indeed, it was a great deal of trouble for employers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, it is the duty of the citizens to make a spectacle of themselves. There's about 10 million retirements at work. It is intended to regulate the retirement situation of 1,700,000 people at work. It's not an attitude, it's just an app based on eye-painting. Here, Mr. Secretary has just confessed, an arrangement of $2.4 billion in a $104 billion pension is being made. That's nothing. In fact, in your power, the era has evolved to be so rich. In particular, the surroundings of Mr. Recep's household and the surroundings of their children's work have also made enormous wealth. And if you tax these assets, you can get an additional $100 billion a year, but in your time, you always get forgiveness. As a matter of fact, here's a pardon, a temporary clause. You've removed the tax review, removed the tax, and then you've brought the amnesty laws. But a lot has changed in your era of mastery. For example, in your time, there have been great insults to the founders of the state of the Republic of Turkey, to the values of the Republic of Turkey. Yesterday at work, the founder of this state, the Grand Ataturk, was called here, the murderer, and there was no word from the man who lived in the government, and there was no word from you. Dear friends, I personally accept the insult to Ataturk. So, now, to those who occupy Ottoman lands, then the army of the Caliphate, to those who fight against these invaders, to defend the people in the mentality of the Republic of Turkey who are citizens of the Republic of Turkey or who are not citizens, it is not appropriate for them to come to the Parliament even if they are not citizens. I'm being paid from the vault of this state built by Ataturk, and while people are starving and crawling with versions... today I'm getting a phone call from a citizen from Tunceli. I've been staying at the barracks, number eight, no bread has been in my house for four days. In this case, people like you, the people sitting here, taking 15 or 20 billion dollars and attacking this government, it's not a conscience at all, but it's something in your time that they're talking about, you know, the Sivas massacre, the Kahramanmarash, this... who did them, those massacres? This is the mentality of those who declare the people who fight for this country to be bandits, who accept enemy armies as caliph armies. In the evening, I listened to the daughter of Tuncay Ozkan. In your power, unfortunately, here are the ministers, including the Minister, when their brothers go to prison, they are removed the very next day or in a day or two. Here you are making a law because Mr. Recep's wife's relative entered football, but on the other hand, there's a Tuncay Özkan, who's not guilty of anything else, two of our deputies have been living in a cell for over a year. An East Perincek, the President of the Labour Party, is being stripped of his right to defend himself there, and he is sentenced to 20 years for defending himself. Where's the law like that? You know, you abuse the will courts, the courts of your time, they judge people badly from the will court a thousand times, they take away their right to defend themselves. That's not a government administration, Mr. Lawmakers! That's not possible! So when it comes to you, you bring it, and here you have made a special law for Recep.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0139par0195	Respect!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0137par0196	You're making special laws against Recep, you're kidnapping your own people from court, but on the other hand, the Republic of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...his citizens face a great slander.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0140par0200	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0137par0201	I want a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0141par0202	Wash your mouth and come back!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0140par0203	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0142par0204	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0143par0205	Mr. President, vote on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0142par0206	Mr. President, when he mentioned the name of our Group President, a special law was passed. He said, "A special law has been passed." And he used disrespectful statements. I'd like to make a statement, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0144par0207	Come in, in two minutes, without challenging anything, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0143par0208	Mr. President, vote first.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0144par0209	Let me lead.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0143par0210	But you can't run it. You can't run it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0144par0211	That's your idea, sit down!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0143par0212	Now vote on the motion, then promise me.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0144par0213	Two minutes... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the concerned friend made a motion that we probably increased the sentence in his motion, and he made a motion that the sentence would be reduced further, didn't he? You're dropping the sentence with your motion, right?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0146par0219	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0220	Now, do you wish for this sentence to be dismissed by the motion you have made?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0146par0221	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0222	But in contrast to your motion, you're doubling the sentence, you're not aware, you're not aware of the motion you're making.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0146par0223	I do.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0224	Look at the law, it's one-tenth of the law, you call it one-fiveth of the law. Here's a fine in every way, one-ten-tenth of a fifth higher than one-tenth of a sentence. Here, you're putting the worker, the employer in trouble, and you want the punishment twice as much, but...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0146par0225	It's not your place to interpret my motion.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0226	I dropped the sentence by half, you said. That's your situation. You don't know what you're doing, you don't know what you're saying. Find out first. Come on in.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0146par0228	I gave it to you on purpose.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0229	Find out and come back. Look at the motion, isn't it a shame for the worker if this motion gets run over? Look at the law, look at the text of the law, is it 1 in 1?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0146par0230	You don't understand my motion.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0147par0231	The AKP's motion did not pass through here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0232	I'll ask you if it's a one-to-five or a five-to-one? Do a computation.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0148par0233	Yeah, your proposal doesn't go through, does it go through our motion? You can't pass your own proposal here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0234	Dear friends, this friend of ours comes out and talks to us every time, his motions are like this, his speech is a complete waste of reason.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0148par0235	You can't pass your own proposal here, you don't care about the motion of your own MPs.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0236	So, I'm asking our friends, and I want to say that I don't pay much attention, but please, be more careful when you make a motion; that's number one. Dear friends, the second is a more independent and impartial judgment than ever before. Judgement may have come out of someone's hands, it may not have been someone's front yard. Now there's a full independent judgment on the nation's behalf.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0149par0239	At your command, Mr. Ahmet, the court is at your disposal!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0240	Therefore, it is not for you to throw mud at power through the functioning of the judiciary, nor is it for this people to take credit.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0150par0242	Ahmet Bey, the Commission disagrees with you, the government disagrees.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0145par0243	Know what you're doing, know what you're saying, go out on the stand, speak properly. You can't defend the employee's rights like that.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0151par0245	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0150par0246	The government disagrees, the Commission disagrees.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0247	Mr. President, that's 1 in 10 percent, 1 in 5 is 20 percent.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0151par0248	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0249	No, but he framed me, so I can explain it to you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0151par0250	No, explain your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0252	No. Why should I explain my position? So he says, "You don't know the motion you're giving." He says. Look, before the fines were just as big as the minimum wage. So I say we take it 10 percent lower, 20 percent lower. Don't you get it yet?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0153par0253	You're saying one fifth.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0254	What is one fifth?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0153par0255	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0256	Read it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0153par0257	I read it, I read it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0258	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0259	Give me a break.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0260	Mr. Young, I thank you very much for your restraint.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0152par0261	▪ 1 in five... (Tires
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0262	Thank you, it's contained. [[Continue]] Sir, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0155par0271	There's not enough of a decision.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0272	Sir, there's been a disagreement between the clerks, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0156par0273	The lady says there is. Now she looks back there and says there is. Is that what she says, ma'am?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0274	We'll vote on the electronic device.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0156par0276	I give up, I give up!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0277	Please... please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0156par0278	If the lady says there is, I say give up.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit02spe0154par0279	Please, sir. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0154par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the 73rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the motion of the Tunceli MP Kamer Youth, issued on Article 3 of the Law Bill 171. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. We'll resume our negotiations where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The second sentence of Article No. 4 - 5510 of Article No. 4 has been changed in the form of the term "two years" written in the second sentence of Article No. 4-5510. Congressmans, on behalf of the groups, I list speakers: The first speaker is Mr Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0157par0012	Mr. President, let's get the room quiet first, sir, and let's get everybody out of here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0158par0013	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the roll call is over, you're all going around, but I'm going to say something important. People who don't want to listen, but don't get too much action on their feet. So we won't be asking for another roll call, but it might be helpful if you listen to what we have to say. Thank you. Dear President, thank you very much. Dear friends, the amount of time taken here is extended by authorization, so we're saying we can't keep up with these transitional provisions, so let's extend them a little longer. We're authorizing the government on this issue. But there are still some elements here that are fundamental to this problem, which can't be fixed. We have demands from all banks' pension boxes, Mr. Secretary. As someone who used to work for the Central Bank, I find that most of the requests are justified, but unfortunately, there's only a time-consuming correction here, and there's no correction to its content. Now, here, it's called the principle law, it's spoken, it's said, our friends say what the word "intigation" is, it's being debated, it's being delayed. Mr. Elton, our Commissioner, has just stressed several times that timing is important as we speak here, Mr. Secretary. Yeah, it's important, 'cause it's March, right? So it was calculated to be paid by Christmas, but the timing is important, but the delay continues. Plus, the timing is important, and we'll start paying from January 2013. I looked at it in the interim, of course, when the President of the Commission is talking about certain issues, he says, "We do it here when everyone is being narrowed down in other countries." But we're looking from the other side, so it only covers 2,000 years ago. For one thing, the government's own ministers have already made a statement about it. There's 2000, there's part of it, there's the SEC people. You know, there's a lot of... It's important to say: "Sir, we're doing very well, we're doing very well. We're doing a little bit more embarrassingly than that, so we don't have that much right now, so our Minister here has already explained that he's going to find 8-9 billion, Mr. Dinçer said before Mr. Minister, "We've given up now because there's too much cost, we can't do it." He explained in 2010 that there are technical studies on this in 2009. So it's a limited arrangement that covers 1,900,000. It's not a real policy, it's not all elements. So we're saying it's important in time, and again, I'm referring to Mr. Elvin, Mr. Shandır just said, the officers are waiting, how is this timing? Now, why is the collective contract law waiting? Dear friends, I'm a subcommittee on that commission. In order for increased salaries for officers to be made, the amendment to the previous year must be implemented, and the law on the collective contract must be passed; well, it's too late. Mr. Secretary was late. He said, "We asked you again, we asked you again." Mr. Group President and Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı spoke at the meeting today, and I still don't understand, but I'll tell you in a moment, and I'll tell you, it's important to him, I said, friends prefer tea, coffee. Minister, I still don't understand why he's waiting now. In case we were called to a meeting as a subcommittee -- I had a duty that week -- we signed up with Mr. Kalaycı (Mr. Kalay) so that one of us would leave if we weren't one of us. Now, I'm asking you, we're still looking for an intermediary point. Mr. Elvan isn't here, but let him look at the reports, the timing is important. Since he says it's important, the timing is important. I suppose all matters await Mr. Prime Minister's final approval. I'm getting this out of here. Don't tell me where you're taking it from, because he's been waiting, Mr. Secretary, he's been presented, he's been interrupted, God help him, the Prime Minister's been sick again. When this first came out, it was his first surgery, and if you remember, the presentation was still incomplete. It was said that he didn't come. Now, I'm afraid that's exactly what the law of principle is missing here. If the money isn't enough... look, Mr. Secretary, he's mentioned a cost of 8-9 billion dollars earlier, and now you've brought a tablet called the PC Project of the Conqueror, with a system that doesn't know where it's coming from, where it's been applied in which country it's been applied. So pay the money you're going to pay here to the pensioner, as the tablet gradually develops the technology, maybe as we build those computers ourselves, let's go slowly to the pilot, not so much. For example, I'm talking about the cost of that money. So, now...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0159par0026	They'll give you an advance, an advance...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0158par0027	They couldn't give you an advance because it seemed like an acceptance, Mr. Ayhan. And they're afraid of advance, so there's probably no money in the budget. Let's delay them as long as we can. They say, "If not, the budget seems to be in distress." The Finance Minister doesn't give money or there seems to be a problem between the government and the members. Why is everything waiting for the Prime Minister? A statement was made this morning -- I just mentioned that I had worked at the Central Bank for many years -- a statement was made about the symbol of Turkish lira. That was to be done last week, and that was postponed so the Prime Minister could attend. Now, there's an iconic explanation. Well, what if Mr. Babacan had explained? He's the Deputy Prime Minister, in charge of the economy. No, zinhar, the Prime Minister will appear there! Well, it appears... I've been telling you for years, and you've been insisting on giving the Prime Minister incomplete information. I mean, the value of Turkish lira is not nationalism, it's accounting for zero Turkish lira, and that's what comes from the past, because you have to give up the right here. Now, he's out there again, you got him wrong again. I don't know who's writing it. So our problems today are based on high currency, low currency, high interest-based problems based on high interest, which are encouraging imports, reducing the competitiveness of exports. The same problem with our employment, the problem with our exports, the same problem with production. Now, what I'm trying to say here is that when the Prime Minister doesn't touch, these disagreements don't solve in any way in the government. Even the symbol explanation of a TL is waiting for the Prime Minister, Mr. Babacan can't do it last week. However, you should not say anything to Mr. Babacan. He says that you have added to the supplement of the proposal for education on the agenda. They ask Mr. Babacan: "Sir, there is an arrangement for members of the TMSF and BDK. I am not aware of it," he says. Now, I don't know if any of those bidders are here. So we understand that everything goes differently. There's a lack of coordination within the government. When the Prime Minister gets sick, what do the Vice Prime Minister do? There's someone in charge of the economy, there's a task distribution of everyone else in other matters, which is generally the responsibility of all state ministers. I mean, here, my dear friends, the timing issue... Yes, I agree with Lütfi Elvan, Mr. Elvan is right, but the workers' unions who shout at the timing, and so do the workers' unions, and the pensioners say, and the banks say, "I'm not covered by the BUG-KUR pensioners," as well as the pensioners say. We get pages of faxes, e-mails all the time, constantly filling up. Unfortunately, it's incomplete because we rushed all of this out. Mr. Secretary, of course he's saying it here, but I still don't get a full answer, so what agreement are you looking for regarding the collective contract law? For a month, I've been wondering why we don't meet as subcommittees, because there was an offer in a hurry to solve it before we even went to the subcommittee. So we put it in for a more thorough examination. And as a former founder of Public-Sen, as a vice president, I'm curiously curious on behalf of the officers. I'd like to mention one last thing, about my constituency: we've had another example of a partisan attitude. Today, members of the city's general assembly called us both members of the CHP and the CHP province's general assembly, and from Antalya, between Manavgat-Alanya, a bridge has been built over the Alara Tea. Thanks to them, it's been built, destroyed, again, after something specific... this bridge connects 18 villages and five cities. About two months ago, it was opened and activated with the participation of the head of the city council and its members. Two months later, whoever thought of it, they probably saw the photos at the opening, because CHP, the head of the county council, and the member of the county general assembly, who was a representative of that village, came because he was from MHP, and two months later, our friends shut down this bridge. There are rocks on the bridge today. Citizens are already under construction. Now, I'm asking you, do you do elementary schools after accepting all the drinking water, or without it? I mean, it's kind of a weird thing, I think it's an example of partisanism. Clearly, all members of the city's general assembly are in that opinion. So it's open there, who opened it, God bless... we say God bless what you've done, and it's clear what we're going to do in opposition. But our friends at the city council went because they were in the majority, and they took the initiative. If we had friends from the AKP at that opening, what if they didn't, it's a public-source school. I guess this source thing is important, there's trouble, the treasure can't find the money. So for now, with this $2.7 billion payment, we have to be able to manage temporarily, limited. And the officers will wait a little longer because as subcommittee, I still haven't been called to the subcommittee on the collective contract. I thank you very much, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0160par0037	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The second speaker is Erol Dora, Mardin MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Dora, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0161par0042	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Article 4 of the Law on Change in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171. I salute you all. Mr. President, the victims of our retired citizens, after years of work, who want to live a life of comfort and honor, are one of the main problems of our country. Millions of pensioners deserve to live a healthy, happy, and peaceful life in exchange for the bonus they have invested during their work. According to Article 2 of our Constitution, Turkey adopted the principle of social state. One of the basic homework of being a social state is to raise the welfare level of everyone living in the country without looking after pensioners. In our country, however, retired citizens who are forced to live below the poverty line have to do other jobs to survive, rather than enjoy retirement. Unfortunately, a unique situation has arisen because the principal in the calculation of incomes and months linked under the Law of Social Insurance 506 has often been changed and these changes have not been reflected in the previously connected incomes and monthly incomes. In our country, the situation of pensioners is obvious. For many years, the difference should have been made in the wages of our retired citizens who have been crying blood. It is no longer possible for retired citizens to live on the basis of the first-degree economic crises in the country. The relative prosperity in the country must be granted by our retired citizens, who have worked for the most years to contribute to the country's economy, from the gross national product, which has increased, but so far, pensioners have had no chance of getting a share of the country's wealth. A radical arrangement should be made for pensioners beyond symbolic increases, but so far, only low rates of increase and the victims of pensioners have been tried to compensate. As a result, our retired citizens need to live a comfortable life, while they are forced to work again to make a living for their families. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are being treated by the Social Security Agency, as mentioned in the draft proposal of Article 4 (a) of Article 5510 and Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act (a) are being treated in two main groups, and they have an unstable salary payment problem, as there are differences in pension dates among them. With the proposed law, the problem is partially tried to overcome, and the unstable distribution between pensions is partially closed. However, while accepting the positive aspects of the offer, we must also point out the missing aspects. First of all, it is necessary to improve the inequality of non-equal salaries among our retired citizens. Partial improvements are seen in the proposal of the law, but there is no radical solution to the problem. BUG-KUR pensioners or pensioners face similar problems, but budget balances are partially ignored. In addition, nearly 900,000 pensioners retired before 2000 were unable to find their place in this bill. First of all, it is against the principle of our Constitution to be an equality and a social state. The arrangements must be included in our retired citizens from every institution. Thus, the principle law, meaning that pensioners should be able to compensate for their salary differences, but pensioners must also be given the necessary increase in human life. As I've just said, our retired citizens, who have worked for years to contribute to the country's economy, are the main concern of living. In this sense, the proposal of the law is a law far from improving the livelihood of our retired citizens. Given the inflation data of our pensioners' pensions, a real protection must be made, at least a minimum basic monthly arrangement. On the other hand, the calculation with the draft bill will also include the number of bonus days, and the minimum monthly system will not be referenced, so that pensions will be reduced as a result of the upgrade process. The current bill states that pensioners will continue to receive current monthly pensions in such cases. That means there will be no improvement for our pensioners, which should be protected. This must be prevented and protected by lower monthly areas in terms of income. Therefore, the bill must be adjusted in terms of people in such a situation, creating a minimum monthly amount, or raising the number of days to a certain number of bonuses. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the problem is not only that our former retired citizens' salaries are rationalized, but that they are protected in the same reality, given the future. If this is not done, the imbalances in their pensions will continue in the coming years, and new policy laws will be forced to be passed again. In this sense, it is possible to say that the proposal for the law in front of us is a partial healing law rather than a complete impression. However, the problems of pensioners and their years of victims must be dealt with by a law of radical solutions, not by the laws that have been passed periodically. In this way, our retired citizens and their victims will be no longer election material during every election period. The important thing is to create a revenue system where all our citizens, especially pensioners, can live a human life. If a retired citizen has to work after retirement, it shows the distortion in the system. Therefore, the premiums cut from pensioners who have to work must be more fair. When millions of retired citizens were in full expectation of a policy law, it was a disappointment to our retired citizens that the offer of the law did not include everyone. While the law is supposed to be holistic and inclusive, it does not comply with the principle of equality and rights, where some pension groups are removed under budget balances, exclusion from the proposed law. The rate of growth in the calculation of pensions and initiative arrangements must be distributed to the victimized citizens. While taking positive steps to improve pension and social security, instead of considering budget and resource balances, we should act according to the principles of being a state based on social and egalitarian understanding. After years of working, our citizens who pay their premiums, even though they're retired, because they have to work, they're never fully retired. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are the most fundamental right of our retired citizens, one of the narrowest-income parts of our country, to live a human life. Building a healthy sense of social security will be possible by providing the welfare of pensioners as well as employees. We find the law proposal for a partial improvement in our retired citizens' living standards positive, but we believe that the shortcomings we are talking about should be resolved immediately. I salute you all again, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0162par0061	Thank you, Mr. Dora. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0163par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have made a promise to explain my thoughts on Article 4 of the relevant bill. There have been a lot of important opinions and ideas about this law, which is called the 'intuitive law', but I don't think it's a law of principle, but we can call it a partial improvement. So I'm going to skip some points, not to mention some points, but there are some technical details that I'd like to talk to you about. Now what are we trying to do with this law? With this law, due to the system change, we're trying to promote the new system that emerged after 2000 to pension pensioners who retired before 2000 and retired according to the old system. So we're trying to fit the new system into the old system. When we look at it this way, there may be some problems, some problems. That's one of the major flaws and flaws of the law. We've been saying that a lot in the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, the new system has a petting system and a pool system, so the number of premiums in the new system is important, each person's account can be monitored separately, but that's not the case in the old system. Thus, when we adapt the new system according to the old system, since the number of premiums in the old system is not so important, and people usually prefer to pay low premiums, there may not be any regulation on their pensions, it may be an important technical problem. Second: One of the most important differences between the old system and the new system is that there is a minimum pension in the old system. Now, if we're trying to move retirees from the new system into the old system, if their wages are equal to the minimum wage or below it in the old system, then we're not making any adjustments in their case. Thus, this law, which has been brought before us as a law of principle, will in fact bring no arrangement for some. Another important problem is about adaptation. We often expressed our thoughts about it. In this bill, when we adapt the new system to the old system, the fee for pensioners between 2001 and 2008 is TUFE, plus a salary calculation based on a coefficient calculated on 75 per cent of the informal domestic product, which is 7.1 per cent. When we asked the Minister why this is 0.75, why it isn't 0.80, or why it isn't 1, where does the magic number 0.75 come from? Now, even if we accept that this is true, then we have to accept that this statement is wrong, Mr. Secretary: we gave pensioners the full benefit of their well-being during the 2001s and 2008s. Let's not say that after that. Therefore, pensioners receive only 75 per cent of real growth during that period, and they will not take 25 per cent. So let's face it, this 25 percent is a loss of prosperity for them. Another important issue is uncertainty about the law, 2013 and later. The law does not have a clear sentence on how to increase pensions after 2013. We, the Republican People's Party, are in favor of putting a fiscal rule here, and we think that the number of floors that we're going to accept up to the GDP should be made up and applied after 2013, and that's a big deal. There's been some very important debates about the date of execution here. Really, if we're implementing this law today, why don't we put it into effect after March 1st? Why do we keep the pensioners waiting until 2013, until January 1st? It's not very understandable. If there will be problems with some of these arrangements and practices -- about accessing individual accounts, for example, KEY payments, then perhaps we will have similar difficulties in reaching such accounts -- could there be an advance? I'd like to present this to your reviews. Now, if we're going to accept this law as a law of principle, we're going to have to look at this law more holistic. The problems of pensioners in Turkey are not only the problems of 1,900,000 retired from the SEC, but the pensioners in Turkey suffer far more radical problems and problems. So we have to have a whole perspective and a perspective on the status of pensioners, we have to take it, we have to bring it up. We, the Republican People's Party, feel it's important to strengthen the framework of this law, as well as to remove the 15 per cent social support bonus from employees after retiring to contribute a little bit. Please, let's take this into consideration. Now, in terms of matter, the 4th article puts aside two years for the crates to be put into the only roof model in accordance with Law 5510. Now, I don't quite understand why this is needed. What's the fault of the crates that entered the system during its time and joined the system? Aren't we creating a new victimization here? And then, isn't that a violation of our one roof app? So let's gather all the social security systems under one umbrella and apply one roof, and all the rules are the same for everyone. Didn't the Social Security Act set out in order? Now why are we stretching the one roof app? Who are the people who don't participate in this system who won't participate until 2013? For which polls are such authority, Mr. Secretary or the Council of Ministers? I mean, why do you want to be recognized for that flexibility? Is there some kind of negotiation going on here? For example, is OYAK in this system? So is OYAK going to participate in this system or not until 2013? If not, is this an arrangement for OYAK or an arrangement for any other organization? Were there some negotiations, some negotiations behind this? I'd like to ask that this be shared with all the public. So, dear lawmakers, it's hard to say that this law, with all its shortcomings, in people, in social security, has provided a partial improvement in pensions for pensioners who have retired from the USSR, but when we consider all these shortcomings, it's hard to assume that it's a law of principle again when we consider the new problems that need to include content. This law does not deserve the declaration of the constitution. This law, at the very least, could be a partial regulation law. So, please, let's not call it the "intuitive law" when we put it in public. As I said in my previous speech, this law, as an extension of the concept of social government, was supposed to be a law based on that point of view as a delivery of social rights, and it's hard to say that this is what it is today, given all of its shortcomings. We approach the pensioners in a sense of greatness, in a sense of greatness, in a sense of grace, and in a sense of a mathematical event, in a sense of perspective and understanding that we have created a great expectation for them. We are so unfair to these masses. There's really been a lot of expectations in people. In our own election declaration, we said that we would pass the principle law, that we would deal with any injustice. We know that both the AKP and other political parties have been positive about this issue. But at the point where we are, unfortunately, it is not possible to call this a law of isolation. As a result, in this law of principle, the mountain has really given birth to mice, and the people's victims have not been compensated. I demand a review of the existing law within a framework that evaluates all our proposals and thoughts. I pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0164par0084	Thank you, Mr. Yellow. Speeches for the group are complete. In the name of his subjects, Mr. Yusuf Başer, Yozgat MP. Mr. Baser, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0165par0089	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on Article 4 of the Law Bill for Change in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. A strong society is a society that guarantees people's present and future. A government that looks out for its employee, who can't work, is literally a social state. The EC PARTY has also implemented reforms in this area because it considers social security a fundamental right. As the EC PARTY, in November 2002, we achieved the goal of creating the social security system that guarantees all of our citizens and all the risks we predicted under the Emergency Action Plan. BUG-KUR, by bringing the SEC, Retirement Ark institutions under one roof, we have eliminated the distinction by the state that has made its own citizen a three-class citizen. We've made everyone, 75 million citizens, a first-class citizen; we've created a general health insurance system that is equal to all 75 million of our people, fair, easy to reach and targets quality health care. We've stopped the use of health stamps, and now our citizens are electronically T.C. She became able to use her ID number for health care. We've also covered social security for agricultural workers with no social security. We included our household women in the umbrella of Social Security by making them optional. With General Health Insurance, we have become the world's most comprehensive and accessible health care provider. We've shortened the bonding time for pensions. We've put an end to the bank-tail ordeal when we've been taking our pensions. In their pensions, we've been pushing all our resources, and we've had serious increases in inflation. The pensioners of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act No. 5510 were in two main groups, including pensioners, pensioners, in terms of their monthly binding systems, before 2000 and after 2000. These systems can again vary according to the changes in the monthly binding process; the two basic factors in each system that determine the amount of the salary are the number of bonuses and the number of days of premiums in the insurance policyrs. According to the monthly computing system before 2000, pensioners were divided into four groups; each group received a different pension. The Social Insurance Institution used the rate of development and TUFE in its pension account after 2000, while pensioners did not get a share of the rate of development before 2000. Before 2000, SEC pensioners were also given 75 per cent of the rate of development. According to Law No. 171 and Law No. 506 prior to 2000, disability, old age and death months, are intended to be recalculated by the actual premium-paying days of insurance providers without the lower limit month, and by taking into account the welfare share. There was also an injustice among those who retired from the polls established for Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510, under the temporary Article 20, including insurance companies, trade rooms, trade markets, industrial rooms, and their pensions. With this arrangement, the pensioners will also benefit from the Initiative Law, and the injustice among the pensioners will be removed. As an EC PARTY, we aim at a social security system in 2023, where no one has any future concerns, lives in health, peace and security, and also offers sustainable, efficient and efficient services, and also minimises the loss of income after retirement. On this occasion, I wish you all the best of luck to change the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0166par0104	Thank you, Mr. Basher. Mr. Secretary, I'm sure they wanted a word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0167par0108	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, with this clause, they're getting a warrant for the passage of the polls. In May, two years are up. Two more years. This doesn't mean that the time of the polls won't take place until May, but if there's a possible problem, that kind of authority is needed; one. Second, an organization was mentioned here. I want to express here that OYAK is not within my scope. This is the 17 institutions, which are under the polls, which remain outside of them. So I'm making this correction so there's no misunderstanding. In other words, regarding the collective agreement, Mr. Group Vice President has made some evaluations here. Yes, I'm afraid we haven't been able to make that happen until today. But in order for you to consider the process, it was a natural process for Turkey to enter the election atmosphere after the September 12th referendum and to not be able to get out until today -- until election. After the election, we carried out our intensive work on these laws in front of us. As a result, the collective contract arrangement for officers is coming up next week -- the subcommittee, most likely, if it gives its working time, on the matter of meeting with the main commission and coming to the General Assembly quickly -- and today, to the final assessment, I joined the technical delegation's work -- is coming quickly. Thank you for your contribution, and thank you for your assessment. Dear friends, there are also a lot of different assessments of this current arrangement, which is now relevant to the principle law. What's the arrangement we're making? For one thing, the citizens who retired before 2000 were retiring within the framework of the indicator system and continued their pension process with monthly increases. Now, what do we do? What we're doing is we're giving the pensioners a share of the growth rate of early 2000, just like we're giving the pensioners a piece of the growth rate after 2000. It's nothing more than a share of the country's development, so that's the main framework, to give pensioners a share of the rate of development before 2000. Now, the evaluations here, since it's very technical, are being evaluated for different interpretations. See, those who retired after 2000 have retired by reflecting 100 per cent of the rate of growth to the partial months before 2000. So, if a citizen retires after 2000, he gets a partial month before 2000, and 100 per cent of the rate of development is reflected in that salary, and by the time he retires, that rate of development is 100 per cent. Later, normal monthly increases are continued within the framework of TUFE. It is now asked, "Where did this 75 percent come from? " Dear friends, before 2000, the monthly links were connected in 5,000 days. That's 75 percent based on 5,000 days. So those who had completed 5,000 bonus days before 2000 were entitled to their pension. In this frame, when you give a share of the speed of development, you will consider whatever ratio makes it necessary to make over 5,000 days of difference. Now, when you take 75 percent at 75 per cent, the number of retirement days prior to 75 per cent to 2000 is exactly the same, so 75 per cent. Let's make it 100 percent. When you make it 100 percent, you turn it into a raise for all pensioners. Our purpose, however, is to find out where injustice and injustice will come out if you overlap this rate with the day of retirement before 2000. And in the commissions, I've expressed it, folks, that in order to be specific about this, you really have to give them, not the hours, but the days, the weeks. With such meticulous work, this comes before the High Council. Our whole goal, as far as possible, is not to create a new injustice, not to create new victims with this arrangement, but to move pensioners before 2000 to 2008, and to give the pensioners a share of the progress rate before 2000. Of course, by Law 5510, the system is more realistic. We make these arrangements to correct the wrongs of the past. What is it? It will be a reflection of the rate of 30 per cent growth to salaries, 30 per cent of the rate of development will be reflected in wages for those who will start retiring from the 10th month of Law 5510 and 2008. Why? Since its share in the development of the country is technically 30 per cent, the law has been placed in 30 per cent. I mean, this may be an annoying conversation, but it's a technical conversation, and I found it appropriate to express it here, in this time period, in this frame. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0168par0117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, on behalf of himself, Mr. Sadik Badak, Antalya MP. Mr. Badak, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0121	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 4th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, before we get into the matter, I'd like to respond to the testimony of Precious Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of their group that does not express the truth about the opening or closing of a bridge.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0170par0123	Isn't there a minister? Isn't there a minister?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0124	Listen... listen... listen, learn.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0171par0125	He's not here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0126	If he were here, I wish he'd listened.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0172par0127	He's got a minister, let him answer.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0128	The bridge is a bridge worth 900,000 liras; between the Manavgat-Alanian borders, the province's private administration was built in the area of authority and responsibility; it is 70 meters long, 10 meters wide. Since it hasn't been granted a temporary admission, it was shut down yesterday. His asphalt fell out at the beginning of last week.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0172par0129	Where did you get this information?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0130	Republican People's Party at Antalya County Special Administration and...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0172par0131	Don't you have a minister in this country?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0132	...there's a good draw between the nationalist movement party, a beautiful coalition.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0173par0133	What do you care about the coalition? What's it to you, brother? Mind your own business! Explain your subject, tell your subject, what business is it of yours who formed a coalition with whom?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0134	Some of the coalition members of the County General Assembly, some of their friends, went there to visit, and they attempted to remove the barriers there as if the bridge had been opened and open the bridge to traffic. Can you open up a non-traditional investment? Were you in that action with the ACK? Was it MIT or were you involved in the KCK movement?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0174par0136	Are you in charge there?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0137	As a matter of fact, engineers who are responsible, those who are responsible for the matter have closed the bridge by betting that the bridge is not temporarily accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0174par0138	Don't they have a minister?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0139	Today, the temporary admissions committee has gone to the bridge, and the bridge will be launched following its temporary acceptance.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0174par0140	Minister, don't you know?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0175par0141	100 shows of projects that haven't been granted temporary acceptance, 100 of them!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0142	Yeah, you guys check them out.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0174par0143	Minister, don't you know?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0144	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, social security services in our country have been conducted by the name of the retired Ark until 2008, and by the name of the Social Insurance Institution, through three different organizations, and by different norms and standards. In 2008 social security services were merged under the roof of the SGK...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0176par0145	It's been assembled as a building.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0146	...of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. In order to ensure that social security services are given under one roof with the same Law, the transfer of private pension boxes belonging to various banks and employees of insurance companies in Article 506 of the Social Insurance Act, as well as to the SGK institution. Article 5510 of Act 20 has a three-year deadline for the transfer of bank and insurance crates to the Social Security Institution, and the Council of Ministers has been authorized to extend that three-year term for the maximum two years. The issue of these special polls, which will be taken over under Article 20, has been referred to the Constitutional Court, and the period has been delayed due to the length of the judicial process. On April 9, 2011, the transfer process was postponed two years to May 8, 2013, with the Council of Ministers' decision 2011/1559 published in the Official Gazette 27900. There are 17 separate crates to be taken over by Social Security. In his speech, Mr. Secretary just expressed these crates. Many of these belong to our current banks and insurance companies, some of which belong to banks and insurance companies whose activities are now under way. Of the private pension boxes, which are the issue of the period, the number of people who are covered by insurance is about 250, and the number of our citizens who receive monthly from these crates is about 90. In total, about 340,000 citizens are the subject of a period related to this clause. Social security legislation applied by the polls differs from one another. With the transfer of the crates to the SGK, the standard of service will be provided. We're in the middle of...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0177par0148	Mr. Badak, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0169par0149	My respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0177par0151	Now, on the matter...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0178par0152	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0177par0153	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0178par0154	Mr. President, the Hajji has targeted our group and pointed to an unofficial coalition of a political party with another political party. We'd like to give you an answer on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0177par0155	Here you go, sir. Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0178par0157	Mr. Free will give it to you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0179par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. He claimed that the Republican People's Party has established a coalition with the Nationalist Movement Party in Antalya. This is a matter of the Congressman's own personal assessment, but completely out of political courtesy and reality. The Republican People's Party is a coalition that Turkey has the most radical, most powerful and extremely solid past, trusts only its people, and only its coalition in the squares -- which is an extension of its policy today -- a party that has nothing to do with the pensioners, the workers, the workers, the workers, the workers -- who created the republic, the republic, the republic, the republic, the republic. The Republican People's Party has no formal or unofficial coalitions in particular of Antalya or throughout Turkey. There's no doubt about it at all, but the MP's party, which brought these allegations up in recent and now in what coalitions, written, secret, and at times curious, with Wikileaks documents...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0180par0163	Sing Oslo, Oslo.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0179par0164	...from time to time, it is the bastard who was rejected before the election and the talks in Oslo. The coalitions established after the election are very clear. I urge them not to confuse our party with theirs, with ours.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0181par0167	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0182par0169	The minister in charge of Antalya wants a word, the minister in charge of Antalya!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0183par0170	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0181par0171	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0184par0172	Did they appoint you minister in charge of Antalya with a decree under the law?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0181par0173	Here you go, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0185par0174	Mr. President, Mr. Orator said I wasn't telling the truth, so I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0186par0175	He answered your taunt.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0181par0176	Here you are, in a minute, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0187par0177	I mean, what's the point of taking away so much of the General Assembly?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0178	I'd like you to express this to our dear friend who has spoken here before. Mr. President, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0189par0181	What are you doing to us? What are you doing to us?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0182	...the precious speaker who spoke before me, in Antalya, between such a CHP and an MPP...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0190par0183	Answer yourself, don't mess around!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0191par0184	Please... Please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0185	...has stated that there is no coalition among the members of the ll General Assembly. That statement doesn't belong to us. This statement belongs to them among the members of the City General Assembly in Antalya.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0192par0186	You cooperated with the PKK in Oslo, should we say that?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0193par0187	And don't tell them about our cooperation. Tell me about Oslo, Oslo!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0188	One of the members of the City General Assembly said that they were coalitions of CHP and friends from the CHP...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0192par0189	Who did you cooperate with?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0194par0190	Listen a minute, listen a minute, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0191	...in their weekly testimony to the press.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0195par0192	What the hell are you doing in our business?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0193	And since there's no such tie, why didn't the AK PARTY MPs invite the members of the AK PARTY General Assembly to that visit last week, just themselves?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0195par0194	Tell me, is Hakan Fidan the head of the ACK? Who is he?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0196par0195	With whom did you become a coalition in Hatay?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0188par0196	Doesn't that show some kind of cooperation? My respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0197par0199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0198par0201	Mr. President, is he the minister of Antalya?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0197par0202	Okay. Thank you. [[Continue]] Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-answer procedure on the matter. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0199par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, nearly 5,000 occupational security specialists working within your ministry, as you know, have lost their professional titles as a result of the lack of education and abolition of the regulation. What arrangement are you considering as a result of this cancellation? Do you have any work on the removal of the victims of these occupational security experts? Secondly, it has been said that lawyers have launched a very serious act of execution and have victimised many people on the grounds of violation of the commitment, following recent reports that the necessary changes of the Executive and Bankruption Act will be on the agenda. Can you say anything in the name of the government about the victims, specifically for violating this commitment? How is this going to be resolved? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0200par0215	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0201par0217	Thank you, Mr. President. The pension law has been waiting for years for workers' pensioners and BUG-KUR pensioners, but it appears that an anti- 2,000-year-old law is being passed. People from many places are joining them on the phone right now, and they say that since 2000 -- Mr. Secretary, although they tried to tell us that it was him -- would the people who retired after 2000 benefit from this policy? Can a study of this be done in the coming hours? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0202par0220	Thank you. This is a reminder from your Lord.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0203par0222	Mr. Secretary, they're taking out a month at the end of the year, especially the servants and security staff working on subcontractors at state hospitals. When they do, they get them to sign a document saying they've taken every right they've got. Do you want to take precautions against such inhumane actions? I'd like to give you an example here, and I have a document that says that I'm working between the dates of your company's work at the Chief of Medicine/Management Çankırı address. I've received all my legal and legal rights that were born during my time in question. I'd like to leave your workplace without any pressure of my own will or consent. I won't be coming to work the next day. They're threatening not to rehire those who don't sign it. I'd like to inform your Ministry that you're taking measures against such inhumane treatments.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0202par0223	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0204par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the question I just asked you about the seminar in Urbana, I didn't know, you said. I'm pleased with him because the institution needs to be independent, and the administration needs to act independently, but you need to do the inspection. I'm still going to continue that question. Cost, what's his schedule? What's the point? What matters are involved in this training study? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0205par0228	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0206par0230	Mr. Secretary, you're extending the bank pension polls here for another two years, but you said that's outside the law, that's what they think they're retired to. They're not going to do it, and if there's an app out there that's not fair, they won't do it themselves. Again, as long as you put this stuff in, the banks won't make any corrections to their retired pensioners. So you need to get this stuff out of here, you need to get it out of here first. Two: there are temporary workers working in public, paying a hundred and twenty days a year. They're probably going to retire at the age of 150. How do you feel about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0207par0233	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0208par0235	Mr. Secretary, as you know, union organization is known as constitutional rights. You've also changed membership to more than one union, calling it freedom, in order to hide illegal work, but that's not what's going on in real life. Workers are being fired everywhere because they want to become unionists and have a better working condition. Because of its union, the workers of İzmir Savranoglu have been out of work for two hundred and fifty-four days, and the workers of Billur Tuz have been out of work for fifty-five days and have been resisting. These landscapes are all over the country. What does your ministry do in the face of these rights, rules, mercy, inhuman practices all over the country?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0207par0236	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0209par0237	Mr. Secretary, a citizen from Burdur called yesterday. In insurance, we pay our premiums on time, we have health insurance, but we sometimes have to check and treat doctors in private clinics, but we have to take prescriptions from our pockets. We know that there's a legal arrangement, but are you planning to arrange for these prescriptions to be paid by the state? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0210par0240	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0211par0241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I've just said about occupational safety experts, we're working on a solution to the occupational health safety law. Hopefully, it's not 5,000, it's going to have to go up, around 15,000 occupational healthcare professionals will be expressing their duties. Regarding this, you know, colleges were also established in our universities. Our young people who have received this training will serve in a much healthier way to conduct industrial relations. Other than that, you ask about subcontractors in public hospitals: this is a serious problem. In fact, the subcontractor app has been in our legislation since 1936, but it's become much more common in this period. Reason: Of course you see employment rates increasing. In addition to increasing employment rates, unemployment rates are dropping, thankfully. In 2011, unemployment figures were announced: 9.8.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0212par0244	Last month it was 9.2.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0211par0245	It's a yearbook, not a month old, sir. For 9.8 years, we closed 2011 below 10 per cent. Now, this intensity is satisfactory, but we all have a sensitivity to the fact that labor is not being exploited here. We met with subcontractors, agreed on a 14-point arrangement, determined their problems. The source of the work is the amendment to Article 2 of the Employment Law, where there is trouble identifying the original employer and the sub-employee. These are the ones who have moved to the judiciary, and as there are cases of workers working at some institution where the judiciary has decided, we know the paintings in the judicial phase or the real problems of labor, and that's what I'm saying in your presence because I'm talking to the subcontractors, because I'm sharing them with them, because they know that we're facing serious problems, and that's what I'm saying in your presence. Would the workers, pensioners, benefit from the construction after 2000? I've explained over and over again, we're moving pensioners from before 2000 to 2008, which includes the arrangement. The reason is that after 2000 pensioners receive a share of the rate of development, while pensioners before 2000 do not get a share of the rate of development. It's the fairest arrangement possible to satisfy the inequality here, but I'll tell you every time I say, it's not possible to achieve 100 percent of justice within this complex system, but even though we've been working against it for months -- all technical committees and scientists -- there's no formula for making a fairer arrangement than this. We can give you in writing the details of the cost of the guidance and inspection meeting at this Glorious Facility, but I'd like to state that the process will work within the scope of the Harcirah Law, but we'll also inform you of the outcome in writing. The arrangement for bank chests has been authorized for two years. That doesn't mean it's gonna take two years. I'd like to say that I don't think it's right to demand an impression of the polls that we haven't taken over yet. I think we'll be able to evaluate the problems that happened after the cycle, what the painting is, in that frame. A question was asked about temporary workers. Dear friends, we are in charge of hiring 227,000 workers from six months of workers working 180 days; under six months, there are four months of workers, there are two months of workers, and this can last up to one day. So a principle decision has been made, and the framework has provided the transfer of 227,000 workers to the staff. The difficulties in this matter, all of our ministry's websites are open, and all of the doors are open, and we're getting these demands, and we're trying to respond to legitimate demands. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0213par0252	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 4th draft of the 171-line bill in session. In Article (4), we propose that the year term be changed to (3) years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Haydar Akar Kadir Gökmen Öğüt Mehmet Kesimoğlu Süleyman Çelebi Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to process the motions together, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 1/566 original bill shall be changed in the form of five years in Article 4 of the Framework. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 1/566 original bill shall be changed in the form of five years in Article 4 of the Framework. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 1/566 original bill shall be changed in the form of five years in Article 4 of the Framework. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 1/566 original bill shall be changed in the form of five years in Article 4 of the Framework. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 1/566 original bill shall be changed in the form of five years in Article 4 of the Framework. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement of the 1/566 original bill shall be changed in the form of five years in Article 4 of the Framework. Does the Commission agree with the same motions?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0214par0289	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0213par0290	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0215par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0216par0292	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0213par0293	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to increase time. All motions have the same motive. I submit the motions to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... the motions are not accepted. Now, I'm going to read the first motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the fourth draft of the current 171 row bill. In Article (4), we propose that the year term be changed to (3) years. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0217par0303	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0213par0304	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0218par0305	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0213par0306	Is Mr. Tanal speaking?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0219par0307	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0213par0308	Mr. Tanal. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0220par0312	Thank you, Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. The legislation that comes before us, however, must be fair and just. When I say, our friends who were talking about the bill yesterday are concerned with this budget, bringing burdens to the budget, but we can't give our citizens more than we can bear because of it. They have made a defense in the form of our fellow citizens. So, did we just come up with the budget? Wasn't there a budget at the time when you bought three private planes for the Prime Minister? Didn't we think of the budget in public institutions right now when we were buying 2,500 cc's, 3,000 cc's, 4x4 jeeps, cars? In fact, more than 1,600 ccs of the Law on Tools concerning public vehicles cannot be used in public institutions. You're on your way to the rental road. Currently, 740 BMWs, 500 CL Mercedes, are leased at 130 billion a month. So, these don't weigh in on the budget, but will the salary between $10 and $320 for the citizen? So people aren't really thinking about it here, but they're thinking about it themselves. However, while our Minister was here, I also submitted a petition to the district of Akçakale, Şanlıurfa district of Şanlıurfa, on the grounds that I am a member of Istanbul, but under the provisions of our Constitution. In the villages that depend on you, do you have a village without roads, water, electricity? In our area, there are 90 villages, 118 mezzanines, and 1 municipality. Every season it is possible to reach its path, it has electricity, it has water. It says the written answer to the subsidiary. I couldn't resist, so I searched the village chiefs one by one. The village chiefs here are one by one... and I'm reading a striking one to Mr. Minister, the Mayor of Keseli Village: I've told many of our representatives, Faruk Çelik and Halil Özcan, who will spit in my face almost where he sees it. The power grid was built in 1983 when the village was 30 digits, and now there are two villages, one mezzanine, 160 households, still the same network. Are we being subjected to Syrian democracy because we are close to Syria? For the sake of the Prime Minister, I am silent.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0221par0318	What's this about the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0220par0319	Akbilek village Mukhtar says that we have problems with power cuts all the time. • Akçaköy: The village road has been taken into the asphalt programme two or three years ago, and it is still not done. The power outages are continuous, too much. We drink well water, but well water is bitter. You're a member of the district. The village of Akçaköy drinks well water, but the drinking well water is bitter water. The village of the forehead is called the electric blackouts too much. The village of Akdiken: there is not a full day where the electricity is not cut off. It is called, "We have not yet received our support for the wheat," he says. However, if I'm not mistaken, there are 64 companies that have been billed in plastic, which is why it has been said that all the wheat-planting citizens in Şanliurfa have not yet been received. Akseriç village: there are power cuts, there are no electricity at night. The energy lines that were built in 1984 were very old, our village was 20 digits that year, now 110, and we don't have a way now, and we don't have enough water, so we're getting cut off all the time. The village of Lowerborn is: there's a good chance that the land collection process will be done immediately, but it's the Department of Land Reform that slows it down. Please, take care of it. It's being tried. Baykut: There are too many power cuts. Our paths are stable. It's trying. Bile: no drinking water. It's called. Bolats: the electric wires are old, the electricity is constantly cut. It's called. Boy's: There are power cuts. It's called. Granna: there are constant power outages. Three mezzanines, 70 digits. The road to the village is mud. It's called mud. So the four season roads are not open, as my Sub-Commander mentioned.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0222par0322	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0220par0323	The Grand Fugitive: the road is to be done in summer, its schedule is prepared, but it is not done. It is called. Hopefully, our Minister will be interested in these issues because the region is also a member of parliament. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0223par0326	Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The following temporary clause is added to the Law No. 5-5510. THE deadline of the last allocation is early in January 2000, and the death months of the insurance people who died after this date are recalculated according to these provisions according to the indicators of Law 506. (2) The calculation of the monthly months is based on the monthly coefficient of the officer, which is in effect during the same period as the current number of indicators that were detected for insurance from the indicator or upper indicator table in December 1999 under the rules of Law 506. (3) The monthly binding rate of the insured is determined as follows. A) is based on the fixed base monthly bond rate of 59.9% to 50%, which was in effect in December 1999, and was estimated at 59.9% to 50%, if the indicator table is calculated monthly, and 70 percent if the insurance holder is dependent on someone else's care. There will be no increase in age or day, nor will there be any reductions. B) In the pension of old age; for the monthly calculation of the indicator table, it is based on a base monthly binding rate between 59.9% and 50% in December 1999, based on the number of indicators. The base monthly binding rate set in this way is increased (l) for every 240-day disability, age and death insurance premium (l) for every 240 days that the insured person has paid by the age of 50 and the male after 55, and for every 240 days that he has paid more than 5,000 days. The work of mining businesses is not allowed to be reduced due to the day, for those who have a pension attached to their side due to their disability or early aging due to their disability, before the first time they start working under insurance. C) In the month of death, the base monthly binding rate between 59.9% and 50% is based on the number of indicators set in effect in December 1999 for the monthly calculation of 60% for the indicator table, and for the monthly calculation from the upper indicator table. As of the death date of this set base monthly binding rate, the woman is increased (l) for every full age she fills after 55 years and every 240-day disability, old age and death insurance premium she has paid for more than 5,000 days. There's no reduction due to the day. As for those who died on the day of the payment of the period of the month, the same was due to me, and the same of those who died on the day of the age, and the same of those who died on the day of the payment of the bequest is incumbent upon me. The monthly tie rate of disability, old age and death allowance cannot be more than 85%. (4) As of December 1999, the monthly payment period of the insurance holder is determined by the product of the number of indicators, officer's monthly coefficient and monthly binding rate, determined by the above provisions. (5) According to these provisions, the calculated monthly amount increased by 5.9% to January of 2000 by 5.9% as of December 1999, and the monthly amount calculated like this for January 2000 (7,13326594120697) will be moved to January 2008, using the multiplication (7,133265120697). The monthly amount calculated in this way will also be increased by monthly increases in the first joke of the 4th article (including this period) from January 2008 to January 2013, starting with the repayment of the payment of the payment in January. (6) If the monthly amount calculated according to this clause remains below the monthly amount paid to the insured or rights holders in January 2013, the current monthly allowance will continue to be paid. (7) No repayment can be made for the months calculated according to this clause. (8) The terms of the contract will not be applied after the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period and the period of the period of the period after the period of the period of the period of the period of the period. (9) The Institution's Governing Body is in charge of resolving doubts about the implementation of this clause. İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0224par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are discussing a very important bill. In all the values produced in this country, I would like to welcome you once again to the voice of pensioners who have been working in capital. In particular, I would like to begin with that beautiful statement that reflects Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's view of pensioners: ▪ The attitude of a nation towards elderly citizens and pensioners is the most important part of the nation's power to live. A people who have no gratitude for those who have worked with this power while they are in the past have no right to look to the future with confidence. This is how Mustafa Kemal Ataturk looks at pensioners. Today's bill is about pensioners who have become one of the most vulnerable parts of our society. Article 2 of our Constitution defines the Republic of Turkey as a social state. The 61st article of our Constitution clearly states that the state protects the elderly as a need to be a social state. Sadly, in our society, our elders and pensioners are far from that principle of protection and are trying to survive, far from meeting human needs with an income below the age of hunger. Retired today, living below the poverty line, they can hardly even meet their mandatory spending. As the Republican People's Party, where is the source of this injustice that our pensioners have experienced in our election declaration, when we say that we should be a social democratic party? Don't populism. We've come across answers. The problem, however, is not the resource issue, it is not the financial problem; the problem is our respect for our past and our responsibility for our future. We consciously proposed a law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In our proposal, our basic demands are practical, realistic, and should be made, as they are not affaki. As the Republican People's Party, we have been asked to pay our pensioners well-being. In particular, we have proposed that the annual increase in GDP should be reflected in pensions, in order to stop their pensions from melting in the face of inflation. Due to the decline of the purchasing power and the return of pensions, we have requested that the pension payment of the pensions be removed from the pensioner's social security premium brought in by Law 5510. We have proposed that paying this social security benefits premium, which has no effect on pensions and pensions, based on the logic of paying tribute to the government for their work, has no connection to the social state understanding, so it should be removed. We offered to remove the part of treatment participation, saying that although the insurance people received a general health insurance premium, re-enactment in their treatments was incompatible with social justice and the social state principle. Come on, we really want to make these arrangements for our elders and pensioners to provide them with an honorable, human life, that's what we want. In public, we've all seen the reflections of the retirement of lawmakers in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and of the arrangements for their pensions, and we've all seen the reaction of society together. The bill offered to our Parliament by the ruling party is a proposal not to satisfy our concerns, but not to meet the expectations of our pensioners, just to be done. Despite its name, it is not in the capacity of public opinion and pensioner to live on with dignity and dignity. It's not like you to call it "intuitive" or "intuitive." The regulations made by this law are only partial improvements. Call it right in that sense, we're making some kind of improvement. This law does not necessarily bring an arrangement that will satisfy the needs of the pensioner. On the other hand, it would have to be able to compensate for the salary differences among all pensioners. As it turns out, it's a law proposal designed with the intention of making it look like the Republican People's Party has fulfilled its promise not to be left behind. Today's painful problem is only delayed, and the inequality and pay between pensioners has not satisfied their injustices. The problem with the bill has been understood as the problem of pensioners only before 2000. The arrangements cover 1,900,000 people who retired just before 2000. Likewise, according to the new law, which came into effect after 2008, the same problem will grow in the future in terms of retirement. Unfair practices will be carried out entirely. In essence, for our pensioners, who are the most important social group to have human living standards, the law needed at least a minimum basis monthly arrangement, which should not be condemned to an arrangement on the edge of hunger. However, the bill presents a possibility that the minimum monthly arrangement of your leave will not be increased in the months of the most problematic segments, which are already taking very low months, based on the calculations to be made. Again, instead of giving a share of the increase in national income in the draft law, it was content to organise only for the year 2000. The bill shows how blurry and vague my writing is. In other words, pensions are not given real updates, they are not given a share of the increase in national income. The growth of prosperity that our pensioners need to receive for their pensions can be reflected and partially compensated for their victims. It's still a chance in front of this House right now. One of the basic tasks of the social government is to improve the welfare of everyone living in the country. The same regulations must be made in this framework for BUG-KUR pensioners. The bill also requires arrangements for those who work in agriculture to be protected. That's one thing that's left incomplete. For the period between 2003 and 2008, our retired citizens of this type must be partially compensated by increasing their pensions, disability, and death pensions. In this bill, it is an arrangement to create an income system for our pensioners to live on in the future, and to at least create a real-estate system that will allow them to take today's revenues. In this framework, the pensioners need to establish a system where the monthly increase in pensions, incapacity incomes, widows and orphans' monthly incomes are increased by an increase in inflation by six months after this, and all increases in income in the monthly and income increases in the community. It's not fair for insurance workers to receive social security benefits from their pensions, especially when old age is receiving a monthly allowance, even though it doesn't affect pensions of their work as they start working again. This procedure puts pensioners in a very difficult position. In such cases, social security benefits paid by our pensioners who continue to work while retiring must be removed. Retired people who retire to receive a monthly pension have to actually work at the age they need to rest. That's only because pensions don't make a living. People who have to work because they don't get along. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no explanation except that 15 per cent of the pensions have been cut off and the study has been punished. We wish that this bill would be reconsidered and not just the cost account. I salute the High Council with respect, with love.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0225par0374	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Iron Steel, Mr. Mud MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0226par0377	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to my esteemed fellow lawmakers on social insurance and Article 5 of the General Health Insurance Act. The 5th article includes a new arrangement on both the monthly disability and the monthly death period. The regulations are available, intended to benefit employees, pensioners, relative and partial benefits from existing legislation. In that sense, we would like to offer our support for the benefit of the laborers and pensioners, but what we see in the law as a whole and in the 5th article is less rights and less rights and more labor. He is literally free of human and conscientious values. But it is the highest value in our country and in every one of us, as it is in any part of the world. The idea that we have worked so hard to determine is not the proper reputation, the value, in this law. On the contrary, there is an understanding that power and capital have been transformed into the focus of power, and that power has become centralized, eliminating society, social dynamics, and the hierarchy. Isn't that understanding that has led to political, social trauma caused by war and war on humanity for millennia? Isn't that understanding that humanity, the First World War and Second World War, caused the death of millions, the loss of social values, the death of genocides in some way? As a result, after World War II, the United Nations, particularly international imperial forces, sought to reshape society with a new mind perception, a new approach, a new solution to the problem, a political project we call "liberal democracy." It's not about centralizing power, it's about spreading it to the bottom. Again, a sense of democratic participation based on the rational use of resources as well as the production and execution of services began to emerge, and its product, its product, its work, is that despite today's democracy again, despite its political opening and hardship, it has become acceptable, digestible, and able to tame the extremes, its ability to integrate into the system. But despite this new political perception, which is the highest value in today's world, there must have been community dynamics in the process of making the budget, and in the process of implementing it, and in the process of running it, so that the workers, the oppressed, the poor, the pensioners, the peoples. Each of them, of course, contributed to the amount of work that involved 75 per cent of the country's population. If the people who are contributing, producing, taxing the budget are not in charge of the implementation and operating of the budget, if they are not entitled, if they are not able to benefit fairly and equitably from the share, then the sense of justice has been damaged here, and in society, equal understanding has been damaged. In that sense, we'd be dragging society into a relationship that would constantly consume and consume its dynamics, its efficiency, its efficiency, as well as its production. As a result of that understanding, our society was particularly depoliticized by the Constitution of September 12th coup, and pushed out of politics. We've come to a point where we've been stopped from being a society that studies, trains, participates in the work of art and social enlightenment, and we've come to a point where it's shaped from the top with a jacobenist understanding, acceptable to what's given and satisfied with what's given. There's no will in a society that doesn't question, accepts, obeys, swears. This will means postponing its right to military custody at its proper time, to judgment, to other power centers at its proper time. What will happen to you, as a whole, as a whole, as time has not gone by, we will remove the Anti-Terror Law, particularly the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Elections, as a whole, the Antidemocratic Law, and form a new Turkey, where our workers and the oppressed have seen and found themselves in a democratic, egalitarian constitution. Only then will this new perception win us all. It will win us both, our workers, our pensioners, our oppressed ones. Imagine that if I, who is destined to live on minimum wage in Turkey, where the hunger limit is $960, can't go to a cinema with social activity, if I can't buy a book or read a book, if I can't get the right to travel with my family, if I can't benefit from the benefits of the global world today's communication, tourism, my rights to human rights have been forfeited. This extortion is a kind of hierarchical relationship that we've transferred our rights to. That should be our objection. Hierarchy enslaves society. Let us, with a sense and understanding that frees society and social dynamics, give everyone the opportunity to reach the revenues they deserve, and to have a similar income in parallel with our country's income in the human standard of human living, which is a condition of human living. We pride ourselves on being one of the 20 developed countries -- we boast that our economic power, our economic development, is 16 percent -- but it's still a fundamental problem that all of us, if there's 12 thousand per head in Turkey, if there's 12% in my country, if there's one of the lowest in the G 20s -- the lowest in the national product, and that's a fundamental problem that we all need to take care of. As long as we can't eliminate this area, we're doomed to fail in what is called health, the spiritual, physical, social, and political efficiency of the individual and society. We can't overcome this problem every day when it's an unscheduled problem, with recursive and temporary matter changes. If health is a blessing that God has blessed us in the world, it is the duty of the state, which is more political than anyone else, to place and feed it, it is the duty of the body of the state. This mission cannot be postponed to anyone else, and it is the duty of the Assembly, who conducts the legislature, above all else, because it is the lawmaker. The Constitution on laws and laws is meaningful, valuable, if it brings trust, peace, happiness, and health to society. Beyond, we will be limited to changes that serve power, power focus, and we will have to change the Constitution of September 12th 17 times, and we will have to create a society that is tired of the patches that we will have to change every day, as we have to change the last general health insurance in the history of the Republic of Turkey six times in 90 years. Instead, a society that opens freedoms, maintains justice, maintains equality, thinks it will win us all, I give you respect.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0227par0384	Now, on behalf of the National Party for Action on Matter, Mr. Korkmaz. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0228par0387	Mr. President, I'm here to announce the views of my person and the National Movement Party Group on the 5th article of the Law Bill, which is known publicly as the Law Act 171. I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, starting yesterday, we have begun to discuss the principle law. The more they hear the contents of those waiting for the bill to be passed, the more pessimistic it becomes, the more hopeful it becomes. Dear friends, to be honest, the mountain has given birth to mice. In many technical terms, rates and numbers, we can briefly sum up what this bill brings: 9.5 million pensioners in our country. This bill does not concern the BUG-KUR, the Retirement Chest and part of the SEC pensioners -- about 7.5 million pensioners. Let no one imagine that only some of the SEC pensioners are interested in about 2 million people, so it's not a revolution in the retirement regime. In 2008, it was intended to close the scissors between the pensioners' salaries before and after 2000, which were opened with your own practices. What do you call it? What do you call the happiness of losing your donkey and then finding it? Before 2008, the lowest pension was $782, and with the arrangements you brought in, the lowest pension today was $642, so you've reduced the lowest pension. Now we see that you're not going to pay a back-to-back payment to make up for it, at least if you'd put something in the place where you broke it. You set the date of the law as 2013. Why? He sees in our pensioners that the knife is up to the bone, and you know that something has to be done right away. You're talking husband and husband everywhere. Our economy is good, so it's good. Even Europe asks for our wisdom. Then why don't you bring it up to the pensioner? Are you lying to people, or have you abandoned the pensioners? When we say you can't run the country well, don't get mad. I ask you: Why do you need to sleep, to practice a job? Because there's been some things that can't be calculated, things that can't be predicted, things that have gone wrong. In order to adapt to the new situation, the initiative is performed. That's the explanation of this bill. How did the pension regime get like this? How did you get to a more unfair point in your reign? In short, the reason you've changed the way you calculate pensions is because. You've lowered the monthly tie ratios. Among those who paid nine thousand days before 2000, the monthly bond rate of 75 per cent has been reduced to 65 per cent from 2000 to 2008, to 50 per cent after 2008. The country's share of prosperity has been reduced to one-third of pensioners. Also, lower border monthlys have been reduced. After we make these changes, we give the pensioners an increase in inflation. What's the point? Besides, you've changed the way inflation calculates to get results the way it suits you. Your calculations are wrong, and the assurances you've set to verify these accounts are wrong. It's called flipping numbers or finding accountants in your head. Dear lawmakers add temporary Article 5510 to Article 5 and bring the issue of recalculations in the months of disability, old age and death, which were linked to Law 506 prior to 2000. The base is based on 60 per cent of the indicator table as a monthly binding rate, and on those calculated monthly from the top indicator table in December 1999, and on rates between 59.9 per cent and 50 per cent, according to the indicator figure. The lower monthly limit, applied according to previous provisions of Article 96 of Law 506, has been ignored. The base monthly binding rates have been moved from 70 per cent to 60 per cent, while the monthly binding rates of those who pay the ceiling indicators have been applied at 50 per cent instead of 60 per cent. In order to be integrated, equality in base monthly binding rates must be ensured. Another thing is the case of super-retired people. In this bill, the service period purchased by super-retired people has not been considered. The law issued in 1987 left out the issue of raising the monthly bond rate for each two hundred and forty days that pensioners, known publicly as "super pensioners," paid a high premium. There's no telling what kind of outcome it's going to be. Under the state's continuity, the bill to protect the rights of super-retardees should be made clear. It is envisioned for our previous pensioners to move to January 2008, based on the year-end TÜFE increase rate and the rate of development of illegal domestic product based on fixed prices, starting in January 2000, but is based on 75 per cent of the GDP growth rate. I don't understand why it's based on 75 percent, not all of it. And when we look at the reason for the substance, there is no statement that explains it. The total rate of GDP development must be taken into account in the update of the monthly month. Mr. Secretary, the bill has been a huge disappointment, as it is not enough to address the pensioners' problems. This dream of peace is a promise you have made to millions of pensioners in the polls, especially Mr. Prime Minister. I'm afraid that's not the original line you're talking about. Of course, there is a very small improvement for a part of the SEC pensioners. Just because of that, we'll call the bill as the National Movement Party, yes. But as a minister of the country's social security, I wonder what you'll tell the retired SEC pensioners who won't benefit from this law. Is that what you're going to say in the election squares? We haven't found enough money when we're pouring resources into our allies. Or are you going to tell us that you voted a sack of votes, and you're going to take the price. You're going to say, is there something you know but I'm sure about this bill, the only thing you can say is that the bill does not bring a pension regime that will ensure that the pensioner lives in a manner worthy of human honor, that the pensioner's hopes are in another spring, and I'm afraid the AKP has been deceived again. It is in the hands of our citizens, especially our pensioners, that I salute the Grand Assembly, seeing that it will not go any further with a Prime Minister who has not fulfilled his promises in the squares, whose mind is in Çankaya.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0229par0399	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Now, on behalf of their individuals, Mr. Mustafa Ozturk, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0230par0404	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 5th article of Law Bill 171. Before I start, two days ago, you know, it was the anniversary of February 28th, I'd like to say a few words about it. It will take 28 Februaryers and their ties a thousand years to learn from where they are on the anniversary of what they say. February 28th is a black mark on our history of democracy; it is a time when the will of the nation is put on the shelf, democracy is slaughtered. In our country, it has left severe injuries, debris, from economics to education, health to NGOs. Faith and thoughts are chained, our people are driven to despair. Our girls are victims of their rights to education because of their beliefs, their disguises. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Unfortunately, we also see today that some political party representatives say that girls should not go to school because of a bill -- proposed -- will be prevented. On that day, we watched together, pressure, persecution, physical violence, how children were prevented from going to school. These children have been treated psychologically, subjected to great hardship. Here's to mobs and mobsters, where the law has been massacred. People, the great nation has assigned the AK PARTY within the fifth year to clean up this wreck against those who want to mortgage their own will. The EC PARTY will crown the nation by erasing all traces of February 28th with the new constitution. No one should worry about that. Dear lawmakers, problems with the social security system are not Turkey's problems. (MHP rankings) The whole world is struggling with social security problems, taking precautions with them. As a matter of fact, these problems between developing countries and developed countries vary, but a common decision can be made at a solution point. The distance in health care in our country is naturally extended by the average human life expectancy as a result of increasing income opportunities.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0231par0411	You've taken the goods!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0230par0412	As you know, the investments in health care, believe me, are truly appreciated by our nation, and our nation has shown great humility. We're all visiting hospitals. When we visit, our patients in single rooms -- I visited two weeks ago, and I visit all the time -- say, "God bless our Prime Minister and the government, we thank you too. What more can we ask for? Our doctors, our nurses, take good care of us, so keep moving. They say, "Let's move on." [[Noises in MHP rows]] Dear friends, in parallel with this, the age of retirement has also been deemed necessary in many countries as a requirement for sustaining the system. In advanced times, different retirement types have emerged as a result of different pension regimes. As you know, this bill was brought to eliminate the previous retirement imbalance. Given the crisis in this world, if you think about narrowing the possibilities for social layers around the world, raising the pension age, saving measures at the point of paying rent benefits, we can see how important this bill is. The launch of general health insurance is a very important issue in the field of continuous and quality health care, the spread of private insurance practices based on individual savings, the registration of everyone, the prevention of fugitives. The reduction of the government's contribution over time is also crucial for the system's self-balance. Earlier, the different and complex social security system was merged under one roof during the previous AK PARTY administrations, and this confusion was eliminated. The goal of social justice is to apply higher rates of people in need of care, equal pension, equal pension, equal pension, equal pension, equal disability. The additional clause of the existing policy requires the protection of earned rights. A transition period has been foreseen for this, too. The Institutional Governing Body has also been appointed to remove the incompatibility of this transitional period, the problems that will arise. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I say I will vote in favour of the clause, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0232par0420	Mr. Ozturk, thank you. On behalf of the individuals, the second speaker is Mr. Reshad Right, the Slap Congressman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Right, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0233par0424	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have taken a personal oath on the Fifth Amendment of Law Proposal 171. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my remarks, there has been an attack on the police in Beyogluce district of İstanbul. 15 of our officers and one of our civilians were injured in the attack. I wish the wounded a speedy recovery. Again, at the beginning of my words, our dear congressman friend has just expressed that there has been a great leap in health as we speak here. Members of parliament, the indicator of age jump in health care is to go to Ankara Numune Hospital or Hacettepe Hospital and identify the situation there. Go to Ankara Numune Hospital, how long will you wait to be examined there? Again, you want to have a patient examined. Go to Hacettepe Hospital, how can you get it examined? And if you had another emergency patient with you, I wonder if you'd be able to find intensive care if he had to be in intensive care at work. Congressmans, the law of retired citizens is a long-awaited law. And for the last ten years, our retired people have been victims all the time. SEC, BUG-KUR, our retired people of the Retirement Ark, are expecting when the law will be passed and we will relax. However, the so-called policy bill was to include not only the SEC pensioners before 2000, but everyone with the BUG-KURL, with the Retirement Chest. The bill has broken the hopes of all the pensioners in the community and put them in a position to resent life. There had to be extensive work to cover all of our retired people. It wasn't just about updating pensions, but about the future, it was about real protection of the months. Members of parliament, the increase in pensions should be made based on the private index, which takes into account the consumption patterns and life standards of this section instead of general inflation indexes. In addition, the income per capita in our country is said to have dropped $10,000 in gross revenues. The pensioners want the GDP cut, but it's not going to happen. But the truth is, economic growth is reflected in pensions of prosperity growth. As a result, it is necessary for retired people to reach the income system where they can live in a real way. He suffered severe economic losses with his staff, his officer, his tradesman, his pension. Retired people are forced to work again because they are unable to provide for their normal livelihood, not even the normal expenses of their monthly home today. There is no explanation except that the employee is punished for cutting 15 per cent of pensions from people who have to work for various reasons. If these people are willing to make sacrifices and work, at least let the amount cut down be very low, at least at 1 percent. Shouldn't they be paid to live humanly in old age, not on the edge of hunger? Let's hear these sad people's voices. Let's hear them. Let's not victimize pensioners based on lack of resources. The AKP has been in power alone for about ten years. Retirement has nothing to do with budget impossible. That's true, the country's economic situation is broken, but the AKP is responsible for this situation, not retired people. If you're sincere, let's bring a very comprehensive pension law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, raise pensions based on the GDP. Right now, health contributions are burning the hearts of our people, of our pensioners. See, many retired people are obliged to go to the hospital at least two or three times a month, and their contributions are a serious challenge. In fact, the poor and the poor also have a share in what we call people with green cards. Come on, let's put these away, then we'll protect our retired people. If it is not taken now, the inequality of pensions will increase and the victims of pensions will continue. During each election period, these people are given new hopes, but all hope is lost. With these laws brought in, a small amount of salary increase will not solve anything, because people who retired after 2000 want to take advantage of this law, and they want to take advantage of it, and the retired Ark wants to take advantage of it. Therefore, I say it is necessary for society to reassess this law on pensioners in a very different way and make it available to everyone, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0234par0435	Thank you, Mr. Right. Congressmans, we will now proceed with a question-answer procedure on the matter.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0235par0437	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0234par0438	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0235par0439	Mr. Sadık Badak has just made a false statement about my speech on Antalya. I brought the transcripts, too. I'd like to make a brief statement, a statement about myself...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0234par0440	They've already made statements before you, but here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0235par0441	I got it, I waited for the report, so... thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0234par0442	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0235par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Anthalya, Alanya, Manavgat have just made a statement regarding the bridge to Alara Tea. I waited for the report. That's why, Mr. President, I waited for our friends to finish talking. It says here that his response has not yet been granted temporary acceptance. I've already told you, he's opened a city council, shut down by order of the governorate. Mr. Badak actually confirmed what I said in between the lines. It says: "Our friends from P.S.H.P. and MHP. are gone, they visit, they open on their own, they open on their own, so they open on their own, where we're not. " As a matter of fact, that bridge that opened was shut down, shut down by order of the county's private administration, and now it's closed. I'm asking you here, Mr. Secretary of State, is there anything that you haven't received without a temporary admission? I'm talking about schools, drinking water. All of these things that are under the authority of the state's private administration have been granted temporary admissions? If they let me know about the opening of that bridge, I'll go, see who they call. So, here, that's not true. CHP and sir, MHP are coalitions. Well, at least we don't see the PKK in Oslo, or we don't call them assholes. So what we're doing is we've got friends sitting there in the county legislature, an investment has been made, they've gone to their place. Why did I say CHP? Not only the National Movement Party members, but the members of the county council there will find out who's involved in that village -- our friends who know -- they'll visit it at the expense, they'll open it because they've done their work. The citizen was already passing before the opening because he was done with the rough construction. Now, here, there's no need to be jealous. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's the government's job, it's the people's job, whoever does it. Even if Ismet Yilmaz did it, and our Minister did it, we'd say, "God bless you," and our president would say, "God bless you." And you say, "God bless you, the CHP and the MHP have done a job." Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0236par0455	Thank you, Mr. Günal. [[Continue]] Now, we're going to do a question-answer on the matter. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0237par0463	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there is no transaction in social security without an actuary account. What is his status in 2023, according to the Actuary accounts, in 2023? Has there been any study of this? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0238par0466	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0239par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: In some of the chronic diseases, the SGK receives a 10% turnout, even though it has a medical board report. On what basis does the SGC decide whether or not to receive participation in any of the chronic diseases? Would you say that with the newly passed law, there will be absolutely no participation in diabetes, blood pressure, heart disease, and chronic lung disease, especially in the elderly and pensioners? Another question is, a friend of our AKP MP mentioned that he moved into single rooms. I'm also a physician. In your ten years of power, there has not been a single room at Mersin State Hospital. There's no such thing. Please do not give false information to the House. Thank you, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0240par0473	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0241par0474	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, 36 of our union workers, who have worked for seven and eight years at the University of March 18th, have been fired from their jobs after New Year's. Although they were said to be taken back, other new people were replaced after they were thrown out. These people are fired because of their union membership and their union rights, their union accession and their relationship with the union. On this occasion, is there going to be a study of the union's dismissal? What are you going to do? Is it a crime to be unionized in Turkey? Since there is no other reason why he was fired from work, or was he thrown out for political purposes, and what are the rights of those 36 of our fellow workers who have been thrown out? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0242par0477	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0243par0478	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of Defense, of course, is here, and I would like to ask the Minister of Labor my question. I think he'll defend those rights because he's the Secretary of Defense. The wages of workers working in the Zonguldak Stonymum are highly unfair. The wages, wages, are at the highest level, paid by our fellow miners who work as diggers from the world's most difficult profession and enter the new management area. In the same situation, in the same place, some of the workers doing the same work, doing the same art, receive 2,500 Turkish liras, while some receive 1,500 Turkish liras. As Minister of Labor, do you intend to eliminate this injustice? One last question: The Unions Act is on the agenda, and we've worked on the subcommittee, but there are no unions being authorized at many workplaces today.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0244par0482	Mr. Çelebi, thank you. Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0245par0484	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a package price is being imposed on private health care institutions according to the Health Application Act. According to this practice, prices are set according to majors, not disease. So for example, if you pay 21 lira for a patient who's had an internal clinic examination, the SGK, but within this $21, all the tests, the examinations are mentioned as a fix, so even if you do the simplest analysis, you'll pay the same price, even if you do an advanced examination of urine, blood work, or thyroid. Thus, this victimizes private health institutions. Do you plan to update, arrange a price update on the Health Application Act, in order to address this victimhood? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0246par0487	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0247par0489	Mr. Secretary, the public must be fair, equal to everyone who works in the public. Some public officials retire at a high rate when they retire because pensions are cut from high salaries, by keeping their salaries high. The same public-owned -- especially administrative service -- is the difference between the governor, the governor, the governor, his law enforcement friends, especially since a significant percentage of their monthly income is compensation, they pay their premiums to the pension fund, but after retiring, with another public official who does the same job, it's a two-to-one difference. The public must be fair, equal to everyone, not unjust. Among public officials, this -- on the same day, friends who pay the same thing -- because one of them has too much compensation and one of them has too much salary, then, after retirement, it causes a loss of rights. This needs to be stopped.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0246par0491	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try to answer questions from my fellow lawmakers. I'd like to point out that if we can't answer from our friends, they'll be answered in writing. Of course, we have a congressman... who made these payments without an actuaryal account. There is such a thing as the Social Security Agency for 2023. The cost projection is in place for the introduction. It is increasing over the years, but it will cost $1 billion 935 million, and in 2034 it will cost $215 million. We can also give more information to friends. Another issue: ▪ Ten per cent turnout is taken in chronic diseases. What size is this? Which one do you get, which one don't you get? Non-accession situations are considered by the institution after the disease has been determined by scientific commissions. So you have to understand, of course, what the scientific commission says rather than the institution -- respect for science requires respect for it -- I think it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay for the scientific commission's report. Rooms for one again... really, that's the point. The government's purpose is to keep him in one room... our deputy said there is no room for one person at Mersin State Hospital. And I know that in Sivas, like there really are rooms for four, five, two... purpose and goal are one room. Oh, did we get this target?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0249par0500	They're lying on top of each other, Mr. Secretary. And as a physician...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0501	No, I get that, I get that. Look, that's the point. We're out of here. I'm giving you a sivas sample. Is there room for one? Come, I'll take you to Sivas. I'll show you a single room. Say, "El have mercy." But not all of them. We call it the truth. They're not all for one person, but what's the point? Every room is a place worthy of humanity.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0249par0502	Mr. Secretary, there's no room; I wish there was, I wish I could say there is.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0503	But I'm saying -- it's true, so it could be -- our goal is to make it a single room. We say the cause, you judge our purpose, our intent.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0250par0504	The intention is one thing and the work is another, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0505	But if you intend to, you will, if you have no intention, you will never do it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0250par0506	It's not intentional until it's done.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0507	Another issue: 36 people were laid off from the Social Insurance Association at the University of March 18th. ▪ Is that because you're union? It's like... To be organized is to be democratic. No one should be fired just because they belong to a union. Our government also considers being organized to be a democracy and a union. It's also in our law that no one can be laid off because they belong to a union. If that's the case, when he goes to court, the court will extradite those people. That's the kind of stuff we have in the law. So I think you're qualified in law enforcement. If there's a flaw in one thing, there's also a particular need to be investigated, but I'm telling you the general principle -- it's an insured, union member -- it's a democratic right; it's a right given by law; it may even belong to more than one union; it can also belong to more than one union. - No one should be fired. He needs to go to court. Our friends will look into it. Mr. Çelebi said again, there's a pay injustice in Zonguldak Taşkomumu. There's $2,500, there's 1,500, he's doing the same thing. The ideal thing, of course, is that the same people who do the same work get paid the same price, which is the need for both justice and peace in the workplace. If you can do the same work and not receive the same fee, you can't make peace at work, nor can you increase the efficiency of the work if you can't make peace. So, hopefully, our friends can take a look...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0251par0511	That's what we want, Mr. Secretary. That's what we want. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0512	There's a Turkey, this is Turkey, our common denominator. Believe me, there's no one outside of this Turkey. We're trying not to keep 74 million out of this service circle. Can we do it? That's what we intend to do. Hopefully, with your support, we'll all go together. Turkey is in a very good place. Where he's supposed to be? It's not, but look at it ten years ago, look at it 20 years ago, at every stage, and what we're getting at now is that we've got a lot of distance to go, and we're not saying that. The one whose day is equal to the other is in loss. ▪ We have much more to do. In every field, we will do better in democratization and in improving human rights.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0252par0514	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0515	Of course, my deputy told me about the package prices, and I agree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0253par0516	It's a ridiculous procedure, sir. How's that for an app?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0252par0517	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0248par0518	In the final sentence, a friend of ours was asked if the Health Application Report would receive a price update. We've set up a commission, the commission will do its work; we're waiting for this work to be implemented by the Social Security Agency.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0252par0519	Thank you, Minister. Dear lawmakers, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "refundable" of Article 5/566, which is currently being discussed, shall be replaced by Article 5/566, which is added to Article 5 and Article 39 in Article 5510, in the first joke. I'm having the next motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "refundable" of Article 5/566, which is currently being discussed, shall be replaced by Article 5/566, which is added to Article 5 and Article 39 in Article 5510, in the first joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "refundable" of Article 5/566, which is currently being discussed, shall be replaced by Article 5/566, which is added to Article 5 and Article 39 in Article 5510, in the first joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "refundable" of Article 5/566, which is currently being discussed, shall be replaced by Article 5/566, which is added to Article 5 and Article 39 in Article 5510, in the first joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "refundable" of Article 5/566, which is currently being discussed, shall be replaced by Article 5/566, which is added to Article 5 and Article 39 in Article 5510, in the first joke. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 5510th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is currently held in 171 rows, has been replaced by Article 5 of the 5th Amendment bill. We demand and demand that Article (3) be changed as follows. Aydın Ayyadın İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Hasan Ören Süleyman Çelebi Kazim Kurt Musa Pine Mahmoud Tanal Müslim Sarı B) In the pension of old age; for the monthly calculation of the indicator table, it is based on a base monthly binding rate between 59.9% and 50% in December 1999, based on the number of indicators. Such a base monthly binding rate is increased by (1) for every full age that the insured person fills up after 55 years and for every 240 days of disability, old age and death insurance premium that he pays more than 5,000 days. The work of mining businesses is not allowed to reduce due to the day's work for those who are on disability, tax reduction due to disability or old age because of the first time they start working under the insurance. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Added to Law number 5510 with Article 5 of the 171 rows under discussion. - To change the first sentence of the third joke of the temporary 39th article (b) in the following way. "For those who are tied monthly from the indicator table and the upper indicator table, it is based on a 60% base monthly binding rate." - Adding the following (d) bender to the third joke of the same clause, "d) According to this joke, in the account of the monthly binding rate of the insured, the 506 Law shall be temporary 76. As part of Article n, the number of bonus days are considered as well." In the fifth joke of the same article, "7,133265120697" was changed into "7,981109206757). - At the end of the same clause, the income and the monthly incomes are tied up after 01.01.2000, and each year after the year of income/monthly bonding is increased by the positive constant prices of the year, and by the rate of GDP, we add and propose that the joke be added. Mustafa Kalaycı Rusar Demirel Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the Commission agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0254par0567	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0252par0568	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0255par0569	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0252par0570	Mr. Turkoglu, are you going to speak or should I read the reason?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0256par0571	I'll talk.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0252par0572	Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0256par0575	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed MPs on the basis of a motion to change Article 5 of the Charter for Change in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171. I salute your high council. The bill that we are negotiating on Article 5 is the common law of principle. The general reason for the bill and the commission reports indicate that the reason for its discovery is the same principle, although the number of days and amounts, in order to address the injustice of pensioners who have retired on different dates to receive different pensions from each other. Insurance participants who have retired from different periods and dates have been forced to receive different pensions due to the current legislation they are subject to as of the date they retire. With this bill, pensioners are being unfairly arranged for insurance holders who have less than their counterparts, so an injustice is sought to be dealt with. However, our assessments and assessments of the bill suggest that justice is not, in fact, a sincere approach to justice, to resolving inequality and injustice. First of all, I have to say that the goal of this bill is to raise the level of well-being of an insurance pensioner, to eliminate inequality, to make up for it, to make up for it, to make up for it, to make up for it, to make up for it, to make up for it. The AKP, which has been in power for ten years, continues to shine rather than fulfill its promise to compensate for the inequality between pensions. As of today, the hunger limit of a family of four is $973, and the poverty limit of the same family is $3,171, so a family must spend at least $774 per month in order for it to be balanced, healthy, adequate to feed. In addition to expenses such as clothing, housing, rent, electricity, water, fuel, transport, education, health care, the total amount is $3.171, which is six areas of poverty. Our salary for BUG-KUR and Insurance pensions is: The lowest farmer's pension is $520, the lowest tradesman's pension is 704 TL, and the lowest is 869 TL ($701). In our country, which has totaled 10 million people and has retired to 6 million insurance pensions, Turkey's Statistical Agency has been able to deal with as many numbers as it wants, and Turkey has found 30 per cent of the population living under the poverty and hunger limit. Under Article 5 of the bill, Article 5510 is included in Article 39, which is expected to be recalculated in the months of disability, old age and death due to Law 506 prior to 2000. The bill is based on rates of 60 per cent per month from the indicator table as base monthly binding rates, and on those calculated monthly from the top indicator table in December 1999 and between 59.9 per cent and 50 per cent according to the indicator figure. The lower monthly limit of Law No. 506 has been ignored according to the previous provisions of Article 96. The base monthly binding rate has been moved from 70 per cent to 60, and the monthly binding rate of those who pay premiums from ceiling indicators has been applied at 50 per cent instead of 60 per cent. In order to be integrated, our proposal must be supported in order to ensure equality in base monthly binding rates. According to Law 3395, it should be made clear in the bill that the monthly binding rate for every 240 days purchased by pensioners who pay the debt premium and are publicly known as the super-retired. The recalculated monthlys of pre- 2000 pensioners are scheduled to be moved to January 2008, due to an increase in TÜFE at the end of the year starting in January 2000, and an improved rate of GDP at fixed domestic prices, but 75 per cent of the rate of GDP development is based on the GDP. The reason for the matter is that it is intended to recalculate the months using the GDP rate, but there is no reason to base 75 per cent of the rate of development. The total rate of GDP development in the updating of the monthly monthly period is considered. The issues mentioned by our proposals are to provide a solution to the woes of pensioners who live under the limits of poverty and hunger, who are in economic collapse, who are poor to bring bread home, who are miserable to buy fuel. Appreciation belongs to the High Council. Either we rule with justice and accept these motions, or 10 million pensioners, and continue to feed their relatives with hunger and poverty. I salute your grand delegation, the respected MPs of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0257par0593	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 5510th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is currently held in 171 rows, has been replaced by Article 5 of the 5th Amendment bill. We demand and demand that Article (3) be changed as follows. Bulent Kuşoglu (Ankara) and his friends B) In the pension of old age; for the monthly calculation of the indicator table, it is based on a base monthly binding rate between 59.9% and 50% in December 1999, based on the number of indicators. Such a base monthly binding rate is increased by (1) for every full age that the insured person fills up after 55 years and for every 240 days of disability, old age and death insurance premium that he pays more than 5,000 days. The work of mining businesses is not allowed to reduce due to the day's work for those who are on disability, tax reduction due to disability or old age because of the first time they start working under the insurance. Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0258par0601	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0257par0602	Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Kusoglu, will you speak? Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0259par0607	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. When I was talking about matter, I made some emphasis on the importance of social security. Social security is an institution that covers and closes the weaknesses of an economic system, and it's very, very important. It's the basic right for a citizen, but in terms of political will, it has to be seen as an institution that covers the weaknesses of the economic system in this way, and it has to be looked at like this. For peace of society, social security is essential, very essential. You've got to see this. Now, as far as I'm concerned -- I've been working on it all the time -- there's a huge audience that's been waiting for 24 years for an injustice to be solved. During the effort to secure that single roof, norm and standard union in 2006, the law was not required to do so, but today, after the election -- the party's campaign promises -- came to the agenda. Now, the pensioners are waiting for us with great excitement. And a lot of them are watching us right now on the screen. We have criticised many aspects of the bill on this issue. Let's look at the cost-related aspect. Look, the reason this hasn't been brought in so far is because it's costing too much. It's a huge cost, it's a huge burden on the budget, the social security deficits are already too high, so let's not bring that up. Look, Mr. Deputy Director Canikli has one thing during budget talks in 2010: Mr. Canikli, saying that the economic balance-breakers do not think the populist promises are going to be on the agenda anymore, making it unnecessary for us to think about this matter. After he said, we did a numerical study on what they said. For example, the teacher's commitments cost the budget 12 quadrillion dollars, the price of the pump for the mazot is 30 to 40 quadrillion liras, and the pensioner's interest is 20 quadrillion. We took out the cost of the pensioners, it says 20 quadrillion. Mr. Canikli may have made his political choice wrong, you may not like it, but Mr. Canikli is a good financier. That's right, so the cost of his work, really, is at least 20 billion dollars. Now, there are motions made by our dear friends, there are proposals for an introduction. In his study on them, he stated that one costs at least 11 billion, the other is 38 billion, and they are not considered for him. Mr. Group Vice President's work is at least 20 billion, which was done last year in 2010. Now, just because it costs too much doesn't count. Look, dear friends, this is a very important prospect for pensioners who have a very important place in society. They've been waiting for twenty-four years, and they've been waiting for what we've brought in, and what we call "intigation," is 1.5 percent of the cost of the RSK budget, which is going to come out of this great Parliament. Look, I'm not talking about the SEC budget, not the Turkish budget. Five per thousandths of the Turkish budget, half of it. So, is that okay? Now, can we just deny it because it costs too much? Do we use the cost of the Turkish budget alone to nullify pensioners' expectations for 24 years? Isn't that a big mistake? It's very clear that the bill, which we see only as a cost factor, which is what we think it is, is clearly what it is. So, in this case, the withdrawal of this bill would have to be prepared in line with what the pensioners really expect. At least the budget and the SGO budget should be able to keep at least 5 per cent of the SGK budget. If it's been waited, it should be worth it. A law that comes out of here should make people smile. We'll have to take that into consideration. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0260par0616	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0618	Mr. President, may I make a brief statement that Mr. Kuyoglu has just mentioned my name, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0260par0619	Let's turn on your microphone, please do it from your position.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0620	No, Mr. President, two minutes from the stand.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0262par0621	Mr. Canikli, he didn't tease you, he confirmed you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0622	No, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0262par0623	But he confirmed it, he did it right. He said it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0624	But it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0262par0625	A good financier said, "He's doing it right." He said, "What more can he say?"
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0626	If I may, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0263par0627	Two minutes, please... don't go too far. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0631	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Thank you Mr. Kusoglu for his earlier statements, but I think differently about the last part, my view of the reference is different. Now, the numbers are really right. So within the scope of the work we did, the amount of resources we needed to implement the proposed model was that much in the 2010 study. Of course, there were other commitments, similar, bringing in additional loads. When you put it all together, if I remember correctly, then our study required an additional amount of about 200 billion dollars, in total, to finance all of those commitments, so that these commitments made by Mr. Kilicdaroglu could be fulfilled on different occasions. What we did was we just said that this resource needs to be compensated, this balance needs to be maintained, but then it would be a more meaningful approach. We had an idea. Look, dear friends, this problem is not a problem that we're trying to solve in part or large part -- in the AK PARTY period. A long time before we...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0264par0636	It's been ten years, and you're still talking about before.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0261par0637	...a stock from a long time ago, a supply of problems, a stock we took over. We're trying to figure it out. Of course, when we do, we'll consider the general balance. So we're not saying that you've solved the whole thing 100%, but it's doing a lot of work, it's going to bring some serious relief. Dear friends, economics is a logic of balances, there is no single balance, there is more than one balance. You have to consider all balances. We're all seeing how governments, spending countries and governments, who can govern without all balances, can't even afford to pay civil servants' salaries. We follow a realistic, balanced policy. We don't have an approach that gives people too much hope. What we do is a realistic approach. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0265par0641	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0266par0643	Sir, there's teasing.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0267par0644	I thanked Mr. Kusoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0268par0645	Sir, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0269par0646	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0268par0647	May I answer, may I, in particular, regarding a matter he stated?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0269par0648	Now, there's no end to this, Mr. Kusoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0268par0649	No, I'm not saying anything offensive either.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0269par0650	Here you are, sir. Please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0268par0652	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, it is very important that Mr. Canikli has just made contact. Now, you can't protect people's peace, their happiness, their peace of mind, the peace of the community, if you think of the investments that need to be made, or the costs that need to be made for this country's people. You can't look at it like that. I specifically pointed that out in my speech. Social security systems, which eliminate the weaknesses within the economic system -- what are the weaknesses? Violence emerges, the systems that eliminate violence, terrorism, corruption, injustice, immorality -- and eliminate social risks. I told you to look at it that way. For him, the view of power is wrong. See, 1.9 billion for Minister 2023. See, 1.9 billion. It's going to be two and a half billion at the most right now. In no way is that far below the cost of Mr. Canikli's practical work and our work. It costs a lot of fun, the current bill. It's a shame for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to come out of this, and I want to say it. It doesn't meet the expectations of our citizens, it doesn't meet the 24 years of expectation, it's enough to upset all of us. That's why I wanted to make this very clear. Otherwise, in the event of such a false law, we will benefit from opposition. But I'd be sad to see such a bad law come out of this place while we're sitting here, and such a big deal. I just wanted to point that out. Mr. President, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0270par0657	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. [[Continue]] Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Kusoglu and his friends: those who do not accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. Since the next motions are in the same context, I will proceed with the motions, make separate commitments to those who have motions, or have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the "refundable" of Article 5/566, which is currently being discussed, shall be replaced by Article 5/566, which is added to Article 5 and Article 39 in Article 5510, in the first joke. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0271par0683	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0270par0684	Your Majesty? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0272par0686	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0270par0687	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to use a more appropriate language of expression. Since the reason for the other motions is the same, I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Now I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 6-5510. EPISODE 40- (1) According to Article 17 of Law 1479, the amount of incomes prepared to be used between 1/4/2002 and 30/6/2002 are recalculated according to these provisions. (2) Based on the income steps prepared to be used between 1/4/2002 and 30/6/2002 under the interim 11th amendment of Law 1479, the monthly amount calculated as of April 2002 payment period in April 2002 is increased by 8.9% in the same payment period, followed by the period of May 2002, until January 2013, when the payment period begins in January 2013, the monthly rates are increased by the increase in the period of January 2013. (3) No repayment is made for the months calculated according to this clause. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0273par0700	Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you. Yes, we've all been in the squares before the June 12th elections, we promised pensions, we'll do your reviews, we'll increase your salaries, we'll work in Congress for this, we'll make the necessary arrangements... Is there a party that doesn't do it, doesn't say it? Did all four parties promise that? Why doesn't he keep his word, then, four party groups? Where's the problem? So...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0274par0703	We said we're going to do it. We're going to do it. We said we're going to do it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0273par0704	It's got to be... ten years of mastery.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0274par0705	That's what we said! That's what we told the public.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0273par0706	...you're here, you need another seven years for the seven-star super mastery period?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0274par0707	But we're doing it gradually.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0273par0708	Now, the problem is, where do we get the source? There's irregularities between pensions, there's years, there's growth; it's already low, it's not enough. What's its place here in the illegitimate national estate? What's his share of the OECD against this kind of payment within social security coverage? Given that we have 9,700,000 pensioners in Turkey, we will present three sources to the government regarding this source. It solves the entire resource problem of all pensioners, minimum wagers, and all employees who are still working. First: In spite of the crisis, 17 banks made a profit in the first place and 28 holdings profited. According to profit rates, we have reduced the tax on institutions from 35 per cent to 20 per cent. So let's subtract the taxes from 20 per cent -- from a lot of winners -- let's raise it to 25 per cent, which is above that in all the developed countries of the world -- let's transfer the 5 points here to employees, pensioners; this is one. It's a pretty easy source, actually, to discuss the Plan and Budget with a law proposal, and to make an offer in the House in two days. Another issue: by completing this irrigation project from 1,862 thousand hectares of the GAP project, around 17 per cent and transferring the unemployment fund within a year, providing at least 5 million jobs, agricultural industries, creating a very serious employment from Mardin Plains to the Plains of Harran. And third, the third most important resource: I always say, when Parliament does a study to minimize our spending on war spending and end this conflicting process, we solve the problem of all our employees and pensioners from these three sources. Now, when there's no strategy, when there's no strategy, when the retired unions come here, when they talk to us groups, when they deliver their demands, when they put numbers and indiscriminates in front of us, we're going to solve it slowly. If we say this, it's unresolved. If we have anything to say to all pensioners from here, we have to apologize to all pensioners, as Congress, as all parties who have promised this in the elections, we have promised, we have taken your vote, we have not fulfilled our promise. So there's no other way. You promise in politics, you get votes, you don't keep your word, you don't get your party or you don't get your vote next time. It's the most democratic response. But look at the bottom line, pensioners have always been dragged around during all power. Now, in natural gas, electricity, gasoline, gas, cellphones, monopoly products, consumption, consumption products, TVV, VAT. When you constantly increase them, isn't it automatically added to those pensioners? Adding. Take a pensioner's salary in 2000 and compare it with the purchase power of someone who was paid on that salary at the time. Ten million, together with their families, are a policy that leaves our 25-30 million people and 30 million people below the poverty line. In our social state understanding, the will of the nation should not be so comfortable in social injustice, social inequality and social lawlessness. Again, I'm telling the pensioners that you worked for this government until you were sixty-five years old. Some of you have worked for thirty years, some of you have worked in snow, winter, mud, impossible. Despite the taxes and bonuses you gave that day, today, if the government isn't returning to you as a social law state, you've been silently contributing to this... If at least one 200, 300 pensioners were to come to the door of this House and point out their payroll, if you had announced your voice in this snow, in the winter, if you had warned me a little bit, if you had awakened the power, I think you would have contributed. I find you a 2% flaw in pensioners, a 98 percent flaw in us politicians, and 90 percent of the 98 percent defect, unfortunately, because you're the majority. Because who made that promise, who's in power, who's in charge? Now, fellas, let's get down to business after this, and I'll share it with you, sorry. You guys see that, right? What's this? One lira. Well, look at this $1.00. What's this, what's this, guys? The anchor, the anchor, the euro, the pound, what the hell is that? Good luck with the new Turkish lira.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0275par0718	Recep Tayyip Erdogan Turkish lira.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0273par0719	Now, look, I'll tell you something more interesting, Mr. Prime Minister said: "A country, a state, a nation's money is as important as a nation's flag." Of course, anything symbolic matters. Well, the Central Bank is going to open a competition and print these coins, and then the Prime Minister is going to like it, and there's a new symbol coming out. What do you think of this symbol, for God's sake, if a man brought it to the House? As a government, we will print such money, you are the will of the nation, do you agree with this sign? Can't you, my friends? Show me what it is, ask the citizen, hold on to the TV, they say so many strange things to you. Look, a little euro, a little euro, two lines, a little pound, full cosmopolitan, karma...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0276par0720	The sickle looks like a hammer, the sickle looks like a hammer.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0277par0721	It looks like Armenian drama, Armenian, Armenian. Looks like Armenian money.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0273par0722	I suppose it means money, as Mr. Erol knows language, it's a different matter. But look at the euro, one line in a dollar, two lines in this one. Now, even using this mixed coin symbol on the computer, it's not right to slope after that line, it doesn't have any use. So there's a shortage of use in the market. I'm still going to say, "Good luck, everyone's got a lot of money." And watch the debates on tweets, how many deer turn, how much tweets are proportional to their seriousness... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I suggest you watch the Turkish lira through the tweets, and I've done quite a bit of digging. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0278par0727	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The second speaker for the groups is Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Akçay, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0279par0732	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 6th article of the bill, which is defined as 171 rows and briefly intigation. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, this bill is of interest to about 10 million of our pensioners. All of our 10 million pensioners have been waiting for years for this initiative to take place. The Justice and Development Party government, which has been in power alone for nine years, has long made the difference in the TUFE. It has put all of our pensioners in expectation. Before each election, he fueled these expectations, saying he would pass the principle law. The government has promised a 100 per cent increase to the pensioner before the local elections in 2009, their pensions will increase by 500 Turkish liras, their minimum pension will be a thousand liras. The promises have been made in the following press, but the time's Labour Minister Mr. Omar Dinçer, after the elections, we calculated this, we put it on the shelf because of high cost. In the AKP's election talks and election declaration, and in the 61st government's Programme, the expectation of action has continued to be fueled. The government programme promised that our pensioners would be given more than national income, and that a fair policy system would be gradually implemented. However, valuable lawmakers, this bill does not have a fair attitude, nor does it have a gradual arrangement, nor does it offer a parallel share of the increase in national income. This bill, delayed for years, is far beyond expectations. A gap is born between perception and expectation. This bill covers only 1,93,000 Social Insurance pensioners who retired just before 2000. This is 20 percent of pensioners. The remaining 8 million pensioners have been left out of the scope, and from the 1 million, 913,000 pensioners remaining within the scope, 207,000 pensioners have increased by less than 20 Turkish lira per month. There is an increase between 20 and 50 lira per month of 293,000 pensioners. In the monthly salary of 340,000 pensioners, there is an increase of between 50 and 100 lira and a total of 1,35,000 pensioners are well below 150 lira. Dear lawmakers, pensioners, who benefit slightly from the influence, will also wait for 2013 to receive their monthly allowance. This is also a contradiction, despite the government's brilliant statement about budget balances. In short, the esteemed MPs gave birth to a mountain rat. There's a little bit of attitude, there's a little bit of it. The government is still footing in the attitude of pensions, and the pensioner has been deceived by AKP's promises of elections. Another important issue is: This initiative does not satisfy the salary difference between those who retire from different positions, such as the SEC, BUG-KUR, the Retirement Chest. As every status has its own injustices, there is no right or reasonable balance between status. Regarding this bill, government officials and some AKP MPs have repeatedly reiterated that pensions increased the welfare of pensioners during the AKP period, increased inflation for pensions and were already reduced pensions due to the crisis in Europe. Dear MPs, the government means that we have increased wages, pensions, and what more do you want? These words remind us of an AKP Minister of Agriculture who once told you to feed the farmer. Now I wonder if the government wants to tell you to feed the pensioner. However, millions of pensioners are in real trouble. The hunger limit is 960 Turkish liras, with the poverty limit at $3,123 Turkish liras, and today millions of pensioners are below the age of hunger. Millions of pensioners struggle to live far from their most basic human needs. This bill does not have an impression for retired BUG-KUR. A miscalculation is being corrected on the salary of a BUG-KUR pensioner who retired only April 2002, May and June. The number of BUG-KUR pensioners is $2,300. Is there anything in this bill for these BUG-KUR pensioners? No, I don't. But public opinion has created the impression that there is an arrangement for government pensioners as well. Although the same service period and pensions have been retired from the same stage, there have been significant differences in BUG-KUR pensions due to the gaps in the current monthly bonding rate in the period of demand for the premium payment period. BUG-KUR pensioners have been waiting for years for the disparity of their monthly and the necessary action to be done. The number of digit incomes that determine the pensions of the BUG-KUR residents has not been increased both at the rate of GDP development and at the rate of TUFE, which means no update has been made on the pensions of BUG-KUR pensioners. In addition, in 1997 and 2003, in the process of buying steps in BUG-KUR, the digits were sold by people to pay back the digits, but when the pension was calculated, the difference in steps were taken in advance, but the previous years were not increased, so those who bought the digits are lower than they should be bought. This injustice must be dealt with. Dear lawmakers, the government is unable to pass from insurance policy to social state understanding. Every time the initiative comes to the agenda, there's an enormous cost of 8-9 billion, which is technically impossible to get out of. There's always an excuse. In the multi-part social security system, even though the entire social security institution has been transformed into a single institution, the system has failed to establish norm and standard unity. There have been significant differences between employees and pensioners. Although the Social Security Agency was established in 2005 to resolve these differences, the implementation still failed to establish unity. There are significant differences between pensions due to the constant change of the subject, the implementation of different methods to put pensions on pensions. As of today, with the minimum income index at the point of hunger and poverty, it is imperative that pensions under the age of starvation be raised to the level of human survival. No matter what status he retires from, all pensioners' salaries must be rearranged by a single method of computing. However, if this is done, the imbalances between salaries can be resolved. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, despite all our criticism, I would like to state that we will vote on this bill. As the National Movement Party, we've taken the initiative, but that's not the attitude we want. As the National Movement Party, we expect to pay our pensioners a salary of one salary each year in September, in preparation for the winter. Again, as the National Movement Party, we predict that the increase in pensions should be based on a special index that takes into account the consumption patterns and life standards of pensioners instead of the general inflation index. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0280par0749	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Kazim Kurt, Eskişehir MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Wolf, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0281par0753	Mr. President, members of parliament, the bill that the government and our Republican People's Party have brought together to the agenda as one of the forty words of the People's Party's general elections that Turkish pensioners have been waiting for for over the years is being discussed, and in Article 6 of this bill, I exercise my say in a chapter on the BUG-KUR. First of all, it is best to be known that this is not the expected attitude, that the Republican People's Party is not the law that it desires and wants to adopt. In Turkey, it will not please about 10 million pensioners in total, including about 5,600,000 pensioners, 1,850,000 Retired Ark pensioners, and about 2,2m 250,000 BUG-KUR pensioners. In particular, only 12,000 of our BUG-KUR-KUR pensioners, about 2 million and 250,000 of our pensioners, are judged by making only one arrangement. In our understanding, however, there should have been an arrangement that would satisfy the inequality between pensions and combine the base of the monthly binding. There is no chance that we can satisfy any BUG-KUR-KUR people in the section that we are currently considering because he will still receive a pension of $520 from BUG-KUR, and he will still receive 700 lira pensions. Turkey, on the other hand, has announced its hunger limit and poverty limit, which was detected by Turkish-Islam a week ago. According to this, the hunger limit of a family of four is $974, the poverty limit is $3.171, and I'm still giving your pension £520, and I've raised 10 liras. If you bring up the insurance law, we won't be able to satisfy anyone here. Especially because the BUG-KURLans don't seem to own it. The Labour Retirement Society and its associations have been seriously lobbying, making serious pressure on the issue, but no institutions or organizations related to the BUG-KUR have made any noise. The voice of around 2.5 million people was the principle proposed by the Republican People's Party. Now, this law is not available here, and it will continue to receive less wages, which will pay more and more premiums, because it is not the same price and equal price of equal employment, and the same price of equal employment, by bringing an arrangement of pensions to pensions, which are only until 2000. It can't be and it won't be in the sense that we understand. Now, what is the principle law? How will pension be calculated? If you enter Google, where did the idea come from, where did it come from? And the following statement comes from: "Kemal Kilicdaroglu -- the dotted comma -- started with the idea of a system that pays very little, very many months' wages. Republican People's Party Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan İkturk was brought up today. So the patent for this 358-indictee at the morning hearings is really at the Republican People's Party, and it's been identified. Now, when we heard Mr. Minister's statements and statements on the Commission, we asked him, "Why are these numbers coming out, not the numbers in Ali İhsan Kokturk, but the figures in his proposal? This is said to be the reason that those amounts are too high and that budgets are not affordable. However, it has not been fulfilled for ten years when it has been the duty of the ruling AKP (AKP), a overwhelming majority of the budgets. My dear friends, one of the speakers just told me that a year's worth of $2.7 billion is the number that has been uncovered in Turkey. However, if Mr. Ali Ihsan İkturk is to be carried out by his motion, I would like to stress that 11 billion liras and that, given the proportion of that in both the SGO budget and the proportion of that in Turkey's budget, the income standard he envisioned in his head for pensions is about a thousand to five percent of the budget. Because it's a law on social security, which is a law on social security, so the social state has to be considered first. Our constitution has burdened us with being a social state and has shown that we should set rules according to it. Now, if you view this as an insurance premium and a pay-per-view, you're wrong, you're looking at it as a merchant's logic, and as a result of some of the talks here, the customer's satisfaction has been mentioned. The government's duty, however, is to maintain minimum living standards as a social state, not to concern customer satisfaction. That is, with the implementation and evaluation of numbers described as the poverty limit and the hunger limit. Now, as long as we don't make an assessment of our proposals, our pensioners, who work in their youth, who produce, who sweat, who pay taxes to this country, will unfortunately not be able to meet the standard of life they think they are. In order to catch this, a government like the Republican People's Party would have to come, which would put social democracy on the agenda and defend the social state. In this direction, I'd like to emphasize again that the current application is a law of behavior that doesn't satisfy anyone. Although our proposals are not being taken into account, we want to assess and support small increases for our pensioners, but I think that this law is not enough, that this law should be expanded and brought back to the agenda, and especially the logic of the initiative in 41 of the Republican People's Party's Word, the logic of the logic, the logic of its logic, should sit in this social security system. For these reasons, I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0282par0767	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. Now, on behalf of his people, Mr. Mehmet Yüksel, Denizli MP. Here you are, Mr. Ascendant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0283par0773	Mr. President, my fellow members of the Congress, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in Article 6 of the Common Law Bill 171. I hereby salute your high council. The concept of intuitiveness in the social security system means that the inequality between pensioners whose working and paying premiums during their working life is equal, which is pensioned at the same age, but is different because of the change in monthly computational methods. First of all, the initiative is not a raise, so all pensions are not raised unconditionally and unconditionally. In our social security system, according to the status of pensions, there is no change in the pensions of civil servants due to the additional indicators and coefficient system used to calculate pensions. On BUG-KUR pensions, however, there is no apparent difference between the months due to the fact that the step system continues to apply until 2008 and that all of the months connected after 1 July 2003 were calculated according to the current income table on 1 July 2003, and there is no apparent difference between the months due to the waiting period on the digits. However, on April 1, 2002-30 June 2002, a three-month income table is based on a period of periodary decline compared to other periods. For this reason, 12th and 186 BUG-KUR, which is tied up monthly during this period, is included in the initiative of BUG-KUR. The SEC pensions have been calculated according to six different systems so far, and each system has also formed separate pension groups, as well as the monthly binding rules. In general, pensioners from January 1, 1982 to January 1, 1982 and December 31, 1987 are divided into six groups, including pensioners from January 1, 1988 to December 31, 1999, pensioners from January 1, 1988 to December 31, 1999, pensioners from 2000 to 2008, pensioners from post 2008. Over the years, the changes in pension computing methods have led to a different set of SSC pensions connected at different times. As a result of the initiative, the increase will vary depending on the number of days and the amount of premiums paid, and the higher premiums will be paid, so those with high indicators and those who pay more and more bonuses will receive higher increases. In this way, pensioners before 2000 will also receive a share of the country's development, and pensioners before 2000 will have their monthly rates brought closer to the pensioner's monthly level after 2000. As a result of the action, 1 million, 933,000 people from the previous 2,743 thousand pensioners -- 70 percent -- will increase in their months, and the highest increase will be up to 322 euros as of January 2012. The costs will be $2 billion,538 million as of 2011, including additional payment, but will increase exponentially each year. Our dear fellow congressmen, our esteemed minister, the bureaucrats of our Ministry, the very valuable team of our Ministry, who have contributed with their criticism, thank our worthy opposition party MPs and all our fellow lawmakers, I wish the law to bring blessings to our pensioners. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0284par0784	Thank you, Mr. Yüksel. Second speaker, on behalf of his people, Ali Gültekin Kınc, Aydın MP. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0285par0788	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 6th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171. I hereby salute your high council. At the beginning of my speech, I celebrate the March 1st Day of Accounters of our accountants, one of the main pillars of our economy, who served an important public service. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers are intended to receive different salaries from pensioners in different statuses and increase revenues from unpaid percentages, which have been dragged through the bill for years by our government. The main summary of the bill is the recalculation of disability, old age, and death months, which were linked before 2000, on the number of bonus days and on the part of development, including the share of prosperity. It concerns our pensioners of around 2.7 million digitally. Retired pensioners (a) are discussed in two main groups, including pensioners before and after 2000 in terms of the monthly binding systems of Social Insurance and Article 4 of the General Health Insurance Act (A). These systems can vary within themselves again according to the changes in monthly binding procedures. The two basic factors in each system that determine the amount of the salary are the number of days of bonus payments, with the prime earnings of the insurance people. Prime main gains are used to determine the average annual earnings and indicators of insurance, while the premium payment determines the number of days monthly binding rates. In addition to a temporary clause in Law 5510 and Article 1479, the amount of incomes prepared to be used between April 1, 2002 and June 30, 2002 will be re-calculated according to the provisions of this substance. In addition, the monthly amount, calculated as of April 2002 payment period in April 2002, will be increased by 8.9 per cent in the period of the payment period in the same payment period in May 2002, until the period of January 2013, when the payment period in May 2002 will begin in the period of January 2013, and will increase by the increase in the amount of the months set under Law 1479, according to Article 1479. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are 1.4, while we have 1.2.2, because of the fact that there were 9,928,000 pensioners in 2011 and 17 million, 300,000 employees in our country. The tradesmen in BUG-KUR are subject to a different practice because the digit system is being implemented in BUG-KUR. In 2002, some BUG-KUR members were included in the arrangement, including the number of variations and durations. The same day, despite the same premium payments, was moved to the 2008 standards of 2,73,000 SSC members whose pensions were tied to different pensions due to their retirements on different dates prior to 2000. The bill should not be seen as a raise for pensioners. The goal is to equalise the rights of those who are subject to different practices because they retire on different dates, despite the same premium payments. The bill will not only remove the inequality of the period, but also the inequality of the bonus days. The draft date for January 2013 is due to the obligation to examine the files of 243,000 people who will benefit. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, on this occasion, I would like to ask that the bill we're discussing bring blessings to all our pensioners and our country, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0286par0799	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Congressmans, we're going to do a QA on the matter. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0287par0802	Mr. Secretary, since Mr. Secretary of Defense has just been seated in your position, I'll ask him. Mr. Minister, Istanbul Ataturk Airport, millions of passengers are waiting, planes are waiting, and he's flying for half an hour. They find it in you, and they say: "The Air Force Commander is not evacuating. " Is it true or not? It's a bad thing to be accused of not being guilty. Everyone needs it, all the passengers need it, we all need it, Istanbul needs it. Are you going to leave that land at once or not?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0286par0804	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0288par0806	Mr. President, thank you. The Cypriot veterans have their honorary monthlys. Wouldn't the Minister consider raising their salary? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0289par0809	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0290par0811	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a citizen of ours named Hasan Özdemir wants me to ask. He says in 2009, I retired with minimum wage insurance over 7,200 days, and I get $900. My friend, who retired for 4,700 days on the same condition as me six months ago, gets $1.35. Is that the difference between us being fixed by this law? Is there a situation in our favor? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0289par0813	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0291par0815	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in your talks yesterday and today, you referred specifically to the 90s, you said the missteps of that period led to these days, but in those days, we worked very hard to increase the age of 38 and 42. On the grounds of retirement in the grave, many friends who are currently at the same party with you disagreed. Of course, these were the issues of the general lack of social security awareness. Now, what happened with these laws after 2006? When does the actuarial account say that the social security gaps close; in what year does it close or land? Can you fill me in on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0292par0818	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0293par0820	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the Director, who is now the Governor of SSC, was once in charge of Kütahya. While serving in Kütahya, a study conducted by SEC inspectors revealed that his sister-in-law had been shown to work in Turkey, but had been treated as a fake document, and then an investigation was launched by insurance inspectors and an investigation into him, followed by a transfer from Kütahya to Uoğlu. Now, this investigation has still been in Kütahya Public Prosecutor's Office for over a year, it seems to have been buried, but we have heard that a warning has been issued on this person. How, though, will you save money for the current Governor of the City, who should be tried in severe punishment? Are you following up on this? What kind of transactions do you intend to make regarding the person who has damaged the institution and used their own authority to do such a thing? And, Mr. Secretary, I have a second question, a general question. And about after 2008...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0294par0824	Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0295par0825	Minister, we're talking about pensioners now, but many workers are dying before they can retire. The inspection and inspection of workplaces has been long gone. Since ten years ago, the Labour Health and Occupational Safety Charter has been removed from practice, and we will bring the law. You said, "It's been ten years since the AKP has been in power." When will workers get out of death, workplaces start checking, pensions?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0294par0826	Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0296par0827	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, as we have expressed today, we see this principle law as the birth of a mouse in the mountain because at the time of the election, when we expressed the principle law and you didn't have it, you said it would cost too much, it would exceed 20 billion euros. And last week, you said it was $30 billion in information from an expert friend of ours on the Commission. Although you don't think those two numbers are true, if it's true, do you admit that you proposed 1 tenth of what CHP has proposed, or a law of principle under 1/15, that the mountain actually gave birth to a mouse?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0294par0829	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0830	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding the question submitted to the minister about the Istanbul airport, Mr. Minister says the necessary procedures are being made concerning the solution to the problem.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0298par0832	So you do, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0299par0833	I'm giving, I'm giving.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0834	Yeah, yeah. Second, we continue to improve our veterans, our martyrs, our salaries, pensioners, pensions. Hopefully, as the country's resources improve, we'll continue to do so. There's a question about our brother Hasan Özdemir. This question is not part of the policy. Mr. Alim, we're talking about pensioners from before 2000.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0300par0837	The citizen asks, what should we do?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0838	Of course, this is the arrangement for former pensioners to receive a share of the speed of development and move to 2008.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0300par0839	A study for later...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0840	Sir, I have worked for 7,200 days, the other one, sir, nine thousand days, or 7,250 days. The difference between 900 and 1,035 in this sense is not an arbitrary difference. The law and its bonuses are a matter of payability and proportions. You have to look at it that way, you have to look at the detail. As for the actual accounts, this legal arrangement here, when this reform is being done, the goal of 2050 is that social security deficits are reduced to 1 per cent of non-national product. I'm guessing you wouldn't agree with the fact that there are no openings in this social security. Of course, there will be social security deficits in the social state, but the main thing is sustainable deficits. The goal of this reform is that the system is sustainable and that the actuary accounts are in a sustainable form. An assessment of our butler il manager: the investigation is complete, the sentence is required. The law on the Health and Safety Act is also coming to Parliament.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0301par0844	Minister, is that punishment the response to that action? Is this a severe criminal investigation?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0845	Sir, there's been an investigation. I'll also look at the file, but there's been an investigation. As a result of the investigation, there was a punishment under the law, but...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0301par0846	The investigation is under way at the Kütahya Prosecutor's Office, sir. The Kütahya Prosecutor's Office hasn't filed any indictments yet, but it's a felony offense, he's being ignored.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0847	Anyway, I'll have the file looked at. Right now, specifically, as you can see, we have no way of knowing the position of a member of our staff in that sense.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0301par0848	I just wanted your attention, Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0849	Our current information is that a sentence has been issued within an investigation, but if the judicial path remains, we're following it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0301par0850	Yeah, it's going on.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0297par0851	The law of occupational health and safety is coming to Parliament. It's an arrangement that we've long longed for in working life. In the end, by agreeing with social parties, a good law includes all employees and has a preemptive feature, which will shed light on modern industrial relations. I think it would be an honor for all of us to make it legal in the 24th term. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0302par0853	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Secretary of Defense will also make a statement. An answer... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0303par0856	Mr. Congressman has asked the Ministry of Transport if the areas in the use of our Air Force Command will be transferred to the area in the expansion of the current plane parking space of Istanbul Airport. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of National Defense agreed on the transfer of this place to the Ministry of Transport as a principle. The procedure continues. Hopefully, if it's resolved as soon as possible, this problem will be solved radically. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0302par0859	Thank you, Minister. Congressmans, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1/566 original draft bill shall be replaced in the form of the 1st verse of Article No.566 and the 1st amendment of Article No. 510, which is added to Article 5510. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1/566 original draft bill shall be replaced in the form of the 1st verse of Article No.566 and the 1st amendment of Article No. 510, which is added to Article 5510. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1/566 original draft bill shall be replaced in the form of the 1st verse of Article No.566 and the 1st amendment of Article No. 510, which is added to Article 5510. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Framework 6 and Article 40, which is included in Article 5510, in the first joke, be replaced as "some." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Framework 6 and Article 40, which is included in Article 5510, in the first joke, be replaced as "some." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171, under Article 6 of the Dair Law Bill 5510, and Interim Article 40, added to the General Health Insurance Act (2), shall be replaced as follows. 28.02.2012 Süleyman Çelebi Aydın Ayadın İzzet Cetin Musa Çam Hasan Ören Bkent Kuşoğlu Müslim Sarı Kazım Kurt Kadir Gökmen Öğümüm According to Article 27), the amount of income from 1/4/2002 to 30/6/2002 is increased by 8.9% during the same payment period in April 2002, based on Article 1479's interim 11th article. Starting in 2003, the latest basic urban sites announced by Turkey's Statistics Agency in December of the past year, not lower than the rate of increase in months under the Law No. 1479, are moved to January 2008, with an increase in consumer prices and an increase in informality by the rate of growth at fixed prices. The months that move from January 2008 to January 2008 are increased by the increase in the monthly rate of the number of months bound under the Law 1479 from this period and continue to be paid on the new amount set from January 2013, starting with the payment period of January 2013." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the exchange of Interim Article 40, which is included in Article 6 of the current 171 Numbered Bill of Law. Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Şandir Erkan Akçay Lütfü Türkkan Nevzat Korkmaz Reşat Right According to Article 40-1479, Article 36 of Act 40-1479, about 70 per cent of the amount of income is calculated on the basis of a full-year salary payment on which the insurance holders received the latest premium from 01,01,2000 to 01,10,2008. If his income hasn't paid the digit bonus for a year, the monthly income is calculated over the previous digit. This rate continues to be insured after 50 years of age, while women continue to be insured for more than 25 years, and for each full age, 1% is also increased. (2) A 1 percent reduction per full year for less than 25 years unpaid in months, according to Article 35 (c) jokes of Law 1479. (3) Old age monthly does not necessarily exceed 90%. (4) According to the first and second jokes, the period of old age, and for each month between the month's month and the month's start when the income table was changed last, the latest basic urban sites announced by the State Statistical Institute are increased as much as the rate of change in consumer prices. (5) According to this Law, the period of old age is as high as the rate of change in consumer prices, the latest ground-breaking urban areas announced by Turkey's Statistical Agency, each month according to the previous month. (6) According to Articles 30, mulga 42, the months that were tied before 01/10/2008 are made according to the method of computation prior to 01/01/200000. (7) There is no repayment for the months calculated according to this clause. (8) In accordance with Article 27, income steps prepared to be used from 1/4/2002 to 30/6/2002 are increased by 8.9%. According to this clause, the calculation is based on increased income steps." Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0304par0908	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0302par0909	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0305par0910	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0306par0911	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0302par0912	Mr. Lütfü Türkkan, Aldeli MP. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0307par0915	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak for the MHP Group on the 6th amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171. I don't know how involved a friend of our scholarship MP is when we're talking about the law, which is known in public today as the Constitution Act, but he brought it up and put it on February 28th. First, I'd like to say two words about February 28th to our friends. On February 28th, he gives a eulogy to the soldier, and I wonder what kind of mood he's in amongst those who now think they're getting out of the army every chance they get. They're the same people. Secondly, I'll tell you something else: look, guys, you're not the victim of February 28th. You're the product of February 28th. Being a victim is one thing. We're the victims of September 12th, we're their victims, but you're February 28th product, you're the collaborators of Americans who staged February 28th. I'm going to give you the best example of this with a cognitive example.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0308par0920	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0307par0921	I'm giving you your best example. Don't ever line up. One day, in 2004, a member of the Justice and Development Party, along with the famous general of February 28th, Dilik Bir, appeared in Macedonia with a retired general, the president of the Balkan Businessmen's Association in Istanbul, who was also a soldier. I said, "What are you all doing here?" This trio sounds interesting to me, it's a very interesting trio. We came to support Turkish parties in Macedonia's elections. What's a different kind of man doing here? What's he doing here? He's Balkan, too. But my brother, there's a lot of Balkan men. You're their true collaborator. Let me fix this for you, for once.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0309par0923	Mr. Speaker, please pay attention to your statements.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0307par0924	Secondly...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0310par0925	Procrastination...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0309par0926	The expression "co-operater" is a very ugly expression, please note your expression.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0310par0927	Are you a provocateur?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0311par0928	...about that money, the BDP spokesman just showed me something, which is a matter of need to explain. The opposite of that, this is the symbol of our Turkish lira -- he couldn't say it, he couldn't play it tight, but let me tell you -- Armenian money is the exact opposite of drama. Look, if you want, if you don't, I'll text you all. The opposite of Armenian money is a symbol of our Turkish money. I don't know who the Turkish word for Turkish lira there bothered. A more beautiful symbol could be found. That's a little premature, too. I hope you can fix it, because there are some very serious rumors going on in Turkey. After saying we're all Armenians, I haven't been able to figure out the logic of applying the symbol of Armenian money to Turkish money.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0312par0929	There's a level to bullshit.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0311par0930	If I say there are flaws in the policy bill that we're discussing right now, and that it's wrong in the first place, I think it's unfair. In order for his name to be in line with the essence of his identity, there must have been arrangements for him not to discriminate between pensioners, to eliminate salary differences among all pensioners, and to increase pensions that allow pensioners to live as human beings. In particular, this bill, which is intended to be organised in order to address the loss of rights, due to the changes in the system of our citizens who retired under Law 506 prior to 1999, and due to the unprovoked rate of increase in their pensions, is far from resolving inequalities between pensioners, as is not the problem with the pensioner. Some calculations are being made concerning the months that were tied only in accordance with Law 506 earlier in 2000. The recalculation of these months for before 2000 is low, and the transport of them from 2000 to 2008 is based on 75 per cent of the GDP increase. A similar calculation of BUG-KUR pensions, which were connected before 2000, is not foreseen. In this policy, unfortunately, the BUG-KURL people have been fully invested. In essence, for pensioners, who are the most important social group to have human living standards with this law, they need to be upgraded to the realisation of pensions in order to organise at least a minimum basis month, to protect the pensions in real terms and to improve them. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0313par0935	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Orator used a very strong expression, such as "co-worker." I call it teasing, and I want a say in it, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0314par0936	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0313par0940	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, everything is happening in front of the public, and history has witnessed that the AK PARTY has been one collaboration so far, that it has been with this great nation, this great nation. This is a witness of history, and this is a witness to it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0315par0941	What's that co-chair then, Mr. Ünal?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0313par0942	But, Mr. Politician, in his speech, I think he'll accept the expression he used as a need to be a politician, as a need to do politics, as an expression that probably exceeds purpose. Because, as we speak on that stand, we don't want tension in this saintly Congress, whose every second, every minute of it belongs to the nation, we don't want provocation, we want Congress to work, we want people to work hard on their problems. So, we don't want to be on the side of tension, the side of the problem. So, Mr. Turkkan, I'm going to leave your testimony to the appreciation of our beloved nation and condemn the expression you're using. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0946	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0317par0947	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0948	Mr. President, I'm sorry to hear that Mr. Mahir Ünal has been taken so much. Because who are you not cooperating with as the political power that rules Turkey? With the Great Middle East Project, strategic partnership, good relations with the European Union...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0318par0949	Mr. President, it's very wrong to refer to them as cooperation. We run a state, sir, what's as natural as having governments negotiate international relations?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0950	Mr. President, sir, if I may...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0319par0951	Mr. Shandır, calm him down from there, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0953	Mr. President, my friend, Mr. Group Vice President, has considered the speech of a member of our group to be a misunderstanding. Please, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0320par0955	Sir, there's no bullying. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Group Vice President's statement has already been filed.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0956	No, not because there's teasing, but because of the explanation...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0321par0957	That's not gonna happen, Mayor. What's that got to do with anything? It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0322par0958	Mr. Shandır, please don't be bullied again in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0960	Allow me, my friend, allow me. Dear friends, we're discussing the principle law, and it's a very important issue, and we're saying that we're going to contribute to the correction of an injustice, and we're saying really important things.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0323par0963	You're a good contributor!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0964	But let me! But another friend of yours got up here, talked to him on February 28th, did we?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0323par0966	But he teased you? Why are you being offended?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0967	Excuse me, sir... Is this where it's at? I mean, what do you need to talk about February 28th for? So, now we're asking, why are you so sensitive about February 28th? I'm asking now...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0323par0969	Why are you guys so upset? Why are you guys going out?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0970	...what practice did you perform in your ten-year power over February 28th? Where, why, why didn't you? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now, what my friend says is that you make different sense than what he says. There's no insult intended, but is there really something that you can't express against February 28th by not doing this investigation? Being so sensitive at this point means that there are reasons you can't express.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0324par0973	The court on February 28th has taken action, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0974	And I'm repeating it, so if you guys stay in it, we stay in it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0324par0975	Documents related to the ECHR have been confiscated, and they are being investigated.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0316par0976	But if you talk on February 28th, we're going to talk about it here, and you're going to get results like this, because of you, because of you, because of you. For that, I pay all my respects. And don't get too excited, guys, so we don't mean to insult you in any way, to insult you... the plane's leaving, so let's cut it off early. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0325par0981	If we were to tell you, you cooperated with...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0326par0982	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. [[Continue]] Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171, under Article 6 of the Dair Act 5510, and Interim Article 40, added to the General Health Insurance Act (2), shall be replaced as follows. 28.02.2012 Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends According to Article 27, the amount of income from 1/4/2002 to 30/6/2002 is increased by 8.9% during the same payment period in April 2002, according to Article 1479, on the basis of Article 11 of the law. Starting in 2003, the latest basic urban sites announced by Turkey's Statistics Agency in December of the past year, not lower than the rate of increase in months under the Law No. 1479, are moved to January 2008, with an increase in consumer prices and an increase in informality by the rate of growth at fixed prices. The months that move from January 2008 to January 2008 are increased by the increase in the monthly rate of the number of months bound under the Law 1479 from this period and continue to be paid on the new amount set from January 2013, starting with the payment period of January 2013." Do you agree with the motion read, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0327par0995	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0326par0996	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0328par0997	Sir, we're acting out, and this motion is counterintuitive. If we agree to this motion, we're gonna have to re-enact.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0329par0998	We want it for him.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0328par0999	That's not why we're joining, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0329par1000	It's an empty gesture, we want it for him, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0330par1001	Are we getting him to read the motive or is he gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0329par1002	Kemal Milldereli...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0330par1003	Mr Kemal Millendereli, Edirne MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Milldere.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0331par1006	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion. I salute you all. Wasn't it simply because the pension difference between pensioners was a bill to cover all pensioners without distinction? Not as far as we can see. The power again reveals an app that it will do little and talk much, just like all the other words, we are the world's 16th largest economy, the number one star country that has achieved the largest employment-based growth. Madam ministers, the commissioners are talking, they're talking, they're actually talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, they're talking, If what they say is true, I'd like to know why the law isn't widely assessed. Congressmans, our people should also know where in the world, where in the world, Turkey is in the poorness of the government, human development, income inequality, pension indicators, which has set a current current record that has never been set before. According to the OECD report, Turkey is among the countries with the highest income inequality and poorness in 2009. According to TÜİK data, more than 18 per cent of Turkey's population is poor. According to the pension indicator, life expectancy in Turkey and retirement are short among OECD countries. On behalf of the ruling party, we know that the countries of the European Union, whose pensions have been reduced, pensions increased, salaries cut, are far above us in the Human Development Index, including family and rent assistance. Let alone those countries, unfortunately in the development index, only Syria and Iraq are further behind our neighbours. Again, in most of those countries, the average life expectancy is longer than us and longer than the rest of us. Moreover, I would like to point out that the average pensions of employees and employees in our country from 2005 to 2011 have increased, but the average price increases in basic spending groups have been even higher. Members of parliament, the principle law, which will benefit 1 million, 913,000 citizens, also offers a temporary solution to our problem. Victims of the issue will wait for another spring, the Republic People's Party's power. Look, the government has also ignored agricultural workers, workers, workers, in the industry law, which provides the price of ridicule for the wheat, which is what it lured into the tradesman and the artist today. Our agricultural workers, tradesmen and artists, who are living under the harshest conditions of income, have been skipped the proposed bill, even though the opposition has raised the issue over and over again. A good example was given yesterday, Brazil. During the same period as the AKP government, the ruling government of Lula in 2002 created a middle class of 20 million poor people during that period. He created 26 million jobs. He helped 11 million poor families. He comforted his people with low interest rates of private loans. In six years, he created 10 million businesses. I wish that the AKP government would focus not only on the Gulf countries, but also on South America. I think we can push our country towards income inequality, unhappiness, with this bill of attitude, the bill of deception and deception. Turkey is still an egalitarian, fairer, freer, more democratic, more developed tomorrow. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have to take the bolder, truer, fairer steps we can take for him. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0332par1018	Mr. Milldereli, thank you, sir, your time is up. I submit this motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, now that the motions I'm going to read are in the same context, I'm going to process the motions together.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0333par1021	These motions are indecent, shameful motions.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0332par1022	If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Framework 6 and Article 40, which is included in Article 5510, in the first joke, be replaced as "some." Does the commission agree with these proposals of the same nature?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0334par1041	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0332par1042	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0335par1043	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0336par1044	It's a shakedown!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0337par1045	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0338par1046	Read the reason. It is intended to use a more appropriate language of expression. The other reasons are the same. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0339par1051	Mr. President, ask the owners of the motion, the individual motion, the motion holders of the motion must say, "It is necessary."
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0340par1052	The motion is here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0339par1053	Mr. President, they're all individual motions.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0341par1054	It's rigged!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0342par1055	The motions are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. THE amendment of Article 102 of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 102 (j) to Article 3 of this Law, dated 1-31/5/2006, is also applied for penalties that have not been paid, although the release of this Law has been imposed before its date. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Articles, Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0343par1062	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action on the interim article 1.001 of the proposed bill. I hereby salute the grand jury. First of all, the government has something to say. Deputy Prime Minister Manisa has also expressed himself. He said the meeting at the Council of Ministers on the initiative law was supported by the option of a 70 per cent increase. Now that's clear and clear. The Minister is here. Let's settle this here. Let's make a motion. Otherwise, it will cause us to become increasingly concerned about the government because if this has been discussed in the Council of Ministers, then this is the truth. I don't want to express the House here, but it means we're doing something to distract pensioners with temporary measures. We shouldn't be doing this. It's not right. We need to talk about this. Now, in other words, Mr. Secretary, although you didn't mention me by name yesterday by name of your kindness, I spoke here. There's a statement here: many other things have been said here, and I'll stop saying: ▪ The GDP of social security deficits continues to increase. It's been used. That's not true. And you're going on and on, what do you say: in 2009, the GDP of social security deficits was 3 per cent, 1.79 per cent in 2012. Mr. Minister, this is the 2012 programme, the Council of Ministers decision supplement, where social security agencies' income-go table. In this painting, I made it clear and clear that budget transfers are up to 69 billion TL. So you've taken down the national rate of these budget transfers. Let the whole nation see it: 4,85. That's what we're saying. But you're going to say: "We put in footnotes." What would happen if he didn't come to social security institutions for a transfer from the budget, or something like that? He wouldn't come to his service. If the payment from the budget comes to you, if it comes to the institutions associated with you, will you and I miscalculate the proportion of these to national revenues? Here, they've done the math, they've put it here, it's very clear. So when we say something, we know it. Now there are 9 million people with green cards. Is it possible to say that there are 9 million people with green cards, that the social security system is good, that it works splendidly? That's not gonna happen! The other thing is, look, I just saw it on the Internet. There are 51 workers in the sea - I'm getting a lot of phone calls - 2,068 people applied. What's good about that? It's really hard to say that's good. Another issue is that one out of four young people are still unemployed. The unemployment figures were announced today. The unemployment rate outside agriculture is 12.4%. 42% of the employees are not involved in any social security agency because of their work. These are the official figures, the figures that TÜİK is explaining today. The unemployment rate in Istanbul is 11.8-12 per cent. 17.5 per cent of the people employed are in Istanbul. The region with the highest unemployment rate in Izmir is 14.7-15 per cent. Joining the labour force is 60 per cent in the Mediterranean, 35 per cent in the Southeast. You say unemployment is around 6 per cent in the Black Sea. About 13.7% in the Aegean, 13 in Central Anatolia. When you look at non-Agricultural unemployment, it's 14 per cent in the Mediterranean and 7 per cent in Central Anatolia. Would you say there's a balanced distribution? Is it possible to tell by these figures that Turkey is good? When you look at employment rates, there are 51 per cent in the West Black Sea, 54 per cent in the East Black Sea -- a large migration from there -- 32 per cent in the Southeast. How can we say that's good, Minister? Whatever you've discussed in the Council of Ministers, the budget is extremely good and overpaying; while the whole world is in a different way, we're extremely good... Mr. Deputy Prime Minister is screaming from there. We'll give you 70 percent. Let's figure this out. We'll do it in one night. Let's work tomorrow. What's it gonna be? If that's so true. If there's something wrong with us, let's say we're wrong. Although you've already promised. Look, I told you yesterday, we had a $105 billion foreign trade deficit in imports just last year. When you look at the foreign trade deficit -- the import difference -- is it possible to connect it to the cell phone my ninety-one-year-old father has now, dear? So there's got to be a reason, there's got to be a point to your policies, you have to express them, we have to talk to each other, we have to say our opinions, we're already telling the public and we're supporting them. You said, "External business advisor." We said, "Let's give more, let's give more. Let's help." We say all this, but you don't share any of your work here. Look, you're working for 17 major cities, you're not giving any information to the opposition, you're trying to design it your way. But I want to make it clear that this is really a book of accounts. I told you yesterday, every minister started saying something different, and last semester he was saying something different, and this semester he's saying something different. So it's clear what we're doing in this interim material, but you have to tell the people the truth, and you have to stand behind this program. I understand if you call what you call a government transfer the general balance of social security, but there's no point in mixing public balance, budget, central management budget balance with each other. So, what do I want to say? The AKP government is now confused, there's a different sound in every mind, the BDK President's mandate has been put into the elementary school bill, and they have apologized to me for several times. So it turns out the group's vice presidents did this without the minister knowing. You want to add to it, but everything has its own place, its own place, its own way, its own way. So, what do we do? We need to control these things well. Now, you gave me a reason yesterday. We said here: we'll pay for it in 2013. You said: "We have to go through so many files." You said that when you reached the top of the e-devlet, when you pushed the button, all the results came out, the social security system was amazing, and everything else was good? Let's push the buttons one night, let's make it till morning, let's not go to 2013, let's get the date of execution early. After that, I have a recommendation, Mr. Secretary: Please, in the Council of Ministers, do not reveal to the public what you have not confirmed. I'm not saying this because it's going to be your loss of reputation, but because the expectations of the citizen are increasing, and the citizen is in distress, and he hopes, find a solution to this matter of mine. He's on the phone. But there's no compromise in the government, there's a difference, and everyone's saying something different. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That was 70 percent of the time today, when this bill was being discussed here. That means they're starting to get confused. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0344par1078	Mr. Ayhan, thank you, we'll pay our respects. Sir, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Levent Gök, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0345par1081	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the interim Article 1, which is added to Article 6 of the Charter No. 171. I salute you all with love and respect. We're talking about the social security system and military custody on February 28th. Basically, it's all just a bunch of intertwined problems. Social security systems, the understanding and coverage of the entire community, are systems that should provide as much peace and security as possible to the communities that are covered by its social security, peace and happiness of the community, the development of society, the development of society, the well-being of society, the well-being of society. It is a great mistake to reduce the concept of social security to words such as monthly, health, and contribution. It is not possible to talk about the social security system without increasing the country's level of development and providing fair income distribution to every corner of our geography. Dear lawmakers, we've just been told about the military custody of February 28th. Yes, the Republican People's Party opposes all forms of military custody. So, what should we say when it comes to civilian custody? What will you say when there is a civilian custody that cries out: "Shut up!" when he talks about the talking parts of society, NGOs, all kinds of people and all kinds of people? For example, in a situation such as national education, why don't you criticize civil custody in an environment where issues that aim to change our national education system are discussed, in an environment where all civil society organizations who want to be heard and to have the basic qualities of the republic are being intimidated? Look, work has come all the way to TÜSİAD. Speaking at a AKP group meeting the other day, the Prime Minister reduced the problem to human rights advocates and my dear friends and the Prime Minister said at the AKP group meeting: "The Human Rights Review Commission from the Turkish Parliament visited Uludere. He can't speak on behalf of any commission, but it turns out that someone is trying to make statements, to go into a deformation without any clarity, that's what the CHP is doing. He says that's what the Prime Minister and members of the Human Rights Commission are doing at the group meeting. In fact, not only are the Republican People's Party members the prime minister is targeting, but the members of his party are in the Uludere Commission, and our friends are doing an extremely important service. The Prime Minister is suddenly wasting his friends. What does disinformation mean, dear lawmakers? Information that's not right or wrong and spread on purpose. Look, what information did we share in the Uludere Commission, and what's wrong with that? I'm waiting here for an answer if any of you have a conscience, and if he's watching, I'm waiting for clear answers from the Prime Minister. On December 28, 2011, 34 of our citizens lost their lives in this sad event at zero point of our border. The first public perceptions were that they were terrorists, that members of a terrorist organization might have infiltrated them. When the Human Rights Commission seized the matter, it turned out it wasn't. In fact, the state and military officials knew all the identities of the dead, half an hour after the last bombing, and they had identified them as innocent Turkish teenagers, but they were hidden for days, from Turkey, until we got there, until we talked to the families, took their letters, handed out photos of the dead children to the press. How unfair that is! Thirty-four people who have died are children under the age of eighteen, and the other are valuable young lawmakers between eighteen and twenty-two. How can a country kill its own children? There's a serious negligence, a very serious mandate. We've seen how hard our security forces are working there, but we've also witnessed: You all have children, and may God give them all a long life, and live with them forever, but we have seen the cries of the mothers in Uldere. Shared what? Here's the dead Mehmet Ali Tosun, a young boy, we shared this. Here's the dead Lion Councilman, sixteen years old, senior in elementary school. Again, Selim Councilman, 17 years old. Özcan Uysal, born in '99. Celal Councilman, 17 years old. Do you see, dear lawmakers? Shirvan Council, Nevzat Council, all 17-18-year-olds. Is there any pollution of this information, my dear friends? Shouldn't we share this with the public? It's because we share these things, and the public's interest has been different, and there's been a social pressure to find the perpetrators of Uludere. What have we shared? Mothers gave us letters. The letter of the mother of Cemal Encu, of the Council of Cahide, says: "My son was only seventeen years old, he was a senior in high school. She was prepping for her college exam. He wanted to become a teacher in the future, but they wouldn't let him, so they killed his dreams and hopes. I wait every day for Jamal to come, but he doesn't. What I wouldn't give to look at her smile, her beautiful eyes again. My brother was only gone for 50 lira, but unfortunately he was killed. I want my brother's perpetrators found. We shared dozens of letters like this with the public, and Turkey learned from us about the disaster in Uludere. Mr. Prime Minister thinks the Human Rights Commission is a subsidiary of the AKP, or a unit within the Prime Minister's Federation. Dear MPs, human rights are a sacred concept and a subject to be independent of. I also congratulate my AKP friends on this, who put their hands on their consciences and do a great service to humanity. The Prime Minister has absolutely no right to blame our Commission and minimize the work of our Commission, and we will not allow it, but there are very clear questions, and they are still not answered. Sixty-two days have passed, and the perpetrators of the affair have not yet been disclosed. We ask very clear questions: Who evaluated the Heron footage, my dear friends? Is that an unknown subject? Who made the target transfer? Who gave the order to shoot? Who allowed the planes to take off and gave the coordinates to bomb there? This document and information is in the hands of your government, in the hands of military authorities, but it's still been under two days, yet no concrete explanation has been made. But the brother of one of the people who died yesterday in Uludere was taken into custody because of the attack on the creamer sixty-two days ago. Of course, we strongly condemn any attack on the state's security forces. But with an investigation like this going on, there's no way we can watch 34 innocent people get killed. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, where the civil rights advocates are silent, the word ends, and you can't speak one day. So, my advice to the Prime Minister is to take his hand off the Human Rights Commission and let the Human Rights Commission continue its independent, free work. That's what we're going to do as Republican People's Party members, but keep your hands off the AKP members. Let him not be unfair to our AKP members, Prime Minister. Therefore, what we are dealing with is important, a key test of Turkey's democracy. Turkey must successfully pass this democracy test, and those responsible must be explained immediately, and the traumas and suffering of the families must be extended forever. I want to express to you that we will carry out these works with great heart, that we will not be instructed by anyone, and that we will never be affected by the PM's outbursts. In this regard, we put our heart on the line. Until the perpetrators of 34 young bodies are discovered, these studies will continue and will be shared with the public. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you with love, with respect. Have a good evening.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0346par1100	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Now, on behalf of their people, Mustafa Şahin, Malatya MP. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0347par1104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the interim Article 1 of the Law Proposal for Change in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 171. I salute you all. The primary in calculating incomes and pensions, based on the Law on Social Insurance No. 506, has often been changed, but these changes have not been reflected in previous incomes and pensions. Although they have fulfilled the same obligations, this practice causes inequalities in income and monthly pensioners who have retired at different times. Dear friends, this proposal of the law aims to address the victims. Even though it was against the principle of the social state in the past, the prime minister of that day who claimed to be a statesman for 40 years, who collapsed on the country like a nightmare, I'll give him three, and after his death, the raises that the late prime minister had made in a way that was not in order to be treated as a state-man, while some of the future generations were happy to be burdened with a serious debt. Our people remembered that before the AK PARTY, the authorities could not pay the workers' wages on time. The AK PARTI authorities, however, have again paid the KEY payments and austerity incentives, which were cut off from the employees before us, and have been respected by our people as the power to protect employees' rights and sweats. The bill we're negotiating may be criticised for not covering 2000 years later, but I believe it will be met after 2000. But it must not be forgotten that our country aims to correct the woes of past governments. In a period of economic crisis in the world, the AK PARTI governments have been able to maintain the budget balance, taking into account the possible impacts that will occur in the future. Without reason, they make these arrangements, otherwise without the world's facts, with the popular approaches, will put us in serious dilemmas.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0348par1111	Cari's open, what's open?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0347par1112	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, my dear friends here have expressed that they are the victims of February 28th, and that we are the product. I resent that. After each coup, a collapsed democracy has left a law and disgraced, disgraced parliaments crawling on the ground. Fifteen years after the February 28 postmodern coup, human rights, freedom, justice, education, and economic traumas were not easily removed from the minds of the nation. The postmodern coup with the writer in uniform and the director in the fedora is an army and bureaucracy-based process, which is alleged to be anti-integration on February 28, 1997. The decisions made in Turkish political history showed us that some of them were a turning point. Irtica is more dangerous than Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). February 28th will last for a thousand years. They were clearly expressing the basic philosophy of February 28th. But we see that democracy, one of the basic principles of the republic, can't be destroyed by a coup in a thousand years, but some environments are trying to use the military to call on the military to take part. One of the biggest shackles in the 28th February period was eight years of uninterrupted training and a blow to vocational high schools along with freedoms. There was brutal work done to block the Imam-gap schools that the public had made with its own money. Most of the students in university with hijabs have been victimized in a room of persuasion, either convinced or forced to open their heads in a way that doesn't make sense. Yes, we see they've waived their right to education. We've seen a lot of students get kicked out of college, teachers and their employees get tagged, and people get separated from society because of their beliefs. Malatya is the province of Malatya at the beginning of the most damaged provinces during the 28th February period. 56 people were sentenced to death for their opposition to persecution, and many were imprisoned in prison, and the kebab shop was tagged, and the word "green capital" went into our literature... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and we know that over 2,000 of our female students at Inönu University have been cut off from school.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0349par1118	Thank you, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0347par1119	Yeah, I'm just saying good luck. I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0349par1121	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0350par1123	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, reviews of the matter continue. Thank you very much for my fellow reviewers. Our esteemed congressman friend Haluk Bey, who has just been evaluated, said that our Deputy Prime Minister used a statement of 70 percent increase.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0351par1125	It's not me, it's the press.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0352par1126	Where are those days?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0353par1127	Look at the Internet, the Internet!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1128	He probably got the media wrong. For this: We discussed this matter in a very detailed way at the Council of Ministers. 70 percent of former pensioners before 2000, the number of former SEC pensioners before 2000 is 2 million...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0353par1129	Not to the media, but to Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1130	If you'll excuse me, I'm just trying to make this clear.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0355par1131	At an opening meeting of Mr. Arinc.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1132	Mr. President, if that's what you're gonna believe, believe it, but let's talk about it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0356par1133	Mr. Secretary, it says here, no need, no need!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0357par1134	Mr. Arinc said that the hand of Agha cannot be held. Mr. Secretary, he's become an agha!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1135	The number of pensioners before 2000 is 2 million 743. It covers 73% of this. 73% of them are retired to 1 million, 913,000 SSCs. That's 70 percent, one.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0358par1136	We're his liars!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1137	Second: an arrangement that states that before 2000 pensioners will receive 75 per cent of their growth rate, 75 per cent. Since the 70s are a mixed point with the 75s, it is likely that the media quotes the 70 percent of pensioners before 2000 as a 70 percent increase. I don't know what he's talking about right now, because I don't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0359par1138	Why don't you ask the Minister?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1139	As a matter of fact, that and that were discussed in a very detailed way in the Council of Ministers. Another thing, sir, is that all our citizens are waiting for jobs at the government gate, looking for jobs; there's a tradition, we have a habit. In fact, we have the private sector very successful, but we've known from time to time what the demands are like when there's a public need for a labor force. We're not denying it, we're saying that at the end of a long period in Turkey, our unemployment rate has dropped by less than 10 per cent; 9.8 means nothing if you don't accept it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0360par1141	We'll send it to you. We'll send it to you, send it to the private sector.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1142	So the world says that Turkey is successful in employment, employment-based growth.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0361par1144	He escaped ten years ago, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1145	I mean, we'd like to...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0361par1146	He escaped ten years ago, Mr. Secretary? Name the number ten years ago.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1147	If 9.8 is a success by law, then thousands of our citizens have been employed.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0361par1148	He escaped ten years ago, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1149	They're your children, our children, the children of this nation. You have to accept this success. But if you have any additional offers...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0361par1150	One point down...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1151	Look, we need to be clear about this, too, so we're open.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0361par1152	No, he escaped ten years ago. Say it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1153	You might say that we have advice on how to draw this 9.8 to 9.2, 8.8. We don't call it that. We want you to know that we're open to that. Now, let's see some manners, folks. Yes, our pensioners, our two million pensioners, are looking forward to passing this bill. But what are they talking about?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0362par1155	Ten liras, ten liras...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1156	He started with a quick one, went to Uludere, came to February 28, came to unemployment, so he's leaving. Let me put it this way: while our Prime Minister was speaking at the group meeting on Tuesday, he was there about Uludere, because I was there, and our dear friends were there -- so he said in person, a commission is still working, a sensitive commission is an important commission. If there is a dark page, if there is a dark spot, we have set up a commission for his enlightenment as the ruling party, if we had a different opinion, we would have prevented the commission from being formed. But we're the ones who want your commission set up.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0363par1158	Don't do that anymore!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1159	While the commission has been established, while doing its work, the report has yet to be reported, and the evaluations have not been clear, it is necessary for the Prime Minister to say that it is not right to talk about the issue -- in an ethical sense -- that it is a matter of perspective on results. Otherwise, if it had been sloppy, there wouldn't have been any commissions or any of this stuff coming up. But in particular, as the AK PARTI Group, this was requested, the commission was set up, but it was said that it would be right for us commissioners to conduct this delicate work within the framework of ethical values. Another thing, dear friends, is that some concepts are being confused here. What's all this? I know what I'm talking about, and I've made it clear here that time was really limited, so I gave a few numbers in short.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0364par1161	Mr. Secretary, the text is here, your speech text.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0354par1162	Budget transfer is $66.2 billion, open $25.4 billion. Now, what's in the budget transfer? As you know in the budget transfer, the state contribution is 22.5 billion; additional payment 4.4 billion; incentives, as you know, five points reduced; a five-point bonus reduction is being imposed on our non-registered employer and non-payment providers, which is paid for by 5.5 billion and GSS bonuses for non-payment, which is $4 billion. Now, they add up to $25.4 billion. Now, the number is 4.64 in gross revenues of budget transfers, and the deficit is 1.79 in gross. I'm making this very clear here, and I don't think it's right to take it elsewhere. Thank you so much for your contribution. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0365par1167	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0366par1171	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on the interim Article 1 of Bill 171, which is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation again. Now, Mr. Secretary, what we're saying here isn't meant to offend you. What we're saying here is that I've been in this account for thirty years, and you're doing something, so let the whole nation know. Just a moment ago, we understand that the Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister... you have four Deputy Prime Ministers, one of them says, one of them says, if the Manisa Organised Industry worker doesn't understand him, but there he says something different when the Deputy Prime Minister says it. Now, if you ask Mr. Babacan, he won't say what he says, I know that, but there's a government responsibility, dear! So when you speak of your mouth, it binds you, and the citizens in front of you hope, hope, and are not such extraordinary good people. Look, Minister, in 2002, 9,760,000 people are poor; in 2003, 10.7 million are poor; in 2004, 10.1 million are poor; in 2011, 13.3 million are poor. Shouldn't we say that here? Shouldn't we tell the job seekers? No matter how you fix the number, no matter how you fix it, no matter how you fix it, we'll find something to say when we look at it, but what I'm trying to say is, look, you've broken the entire system with a decree of law. None of you can tell me how to sign that invitation letter you wrote on the plan budget. Is the signature on the bottom right or wrong? The MP who sent us that article while the president was away asks me, are you saying it's a fake? Did I send it? He'll know if it's a fake. Velev is not a fake, he's been thrown out before, but it's not the right way. Is the law going under the table, dear? Is that a thing? I'm going abroad, fill it out. Is there such a thing or not? I need someone to come in here and explain this. Yesterday I noticed the Prime Minister's arrival at the last moment, or I would have mentioned him here. I don't think the Prime Minister will accept him either. Is that even possible, dear? I did it by force, it's okay....... look, every one of those laws will be in trouble tomorrow. Let him get into trouble like that, legally, tomorrow you'll bring in the bag law to correct him, they say he's prepared, I don't know if it's true or not. Let's do one thing, clean up after him. If you say so, the government business is not so light, it's not simple. Mr. Secretary brought in the financial rule, the Deputy Prime Minister, sitting on the shelves. We needed it the next day when he was telling us, it had to end the next day when he was pressing the Commission. I went public, and I said, "Mr. Deputy Prime Minister has turned into a berry-eating nightingale." I said, "He doesn't talk at all." Did I just say that out of taste? In the Commission, if you try to bring down opposition parties, people who know the job, the law, we'll say the same thing. We understand that we read it, we say that we know it, and we express it very clearly. Now, Mr. Secretary, if we did that, if you say we did that, you'll say we did that, and you'll say, you're right; we won't say anything about that, but there's a rule of law, so it works. I have to do it, I'll see you today, and then we'll be off the hook! How are we going to legalize people's laws, dear? It's one thing to give each other our rights, but if we've lost our way of doing people's jobs, let's get it right, shall we? He says, "Don't come with the right of the servant." You're a man who knows the business, a man who knows the profession, and what are you really trying to do here? As Minister of your drafts, I know that as well. But if you'd like to discuss it in the Council of Ministers, see if it's in the government, or if it's somewhere else, let's put it in order. ▪ We have indeed done wrong. The opposition wants to contribute, but our work prevents them from contributing. That's what I want to say. Thank you, Mr. President. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0367par1180	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Congressmans, we're going to do a QA on the temporary clause now. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0368par1184	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intermediary, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary the following question: The amendment to Internal Affairs Act 1,700 has been made to the first-class division of property managers. However, before this change, the property managers who retired were unable to benefit from the improvement brought in with this change. When are you going to make sure that the managers of the estate, who retired before the change, also benefit from this improvement? My second question: Mr. Secretary Levent used a statement like this when he evaluated the assessments of Sky. If we had wanted to, we could have prevented these issues from coming to light. He used such a statement. I wonder what he meant by that statement, Mr. Secretary. That's what I'm asking him. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0369par1188	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0370par1190	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, under the regulation for raising a title at the Social Security Institution, branch managers should be appointed to the exam, so to speak, are appointed as head of the untested branch via ülle. How many branch managers have been appointed without exams in the last three years? Do these appointments create unrest among the employees? Can you imagine the opinion of employees who are unable to become branch managers because the exam isn't open? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0371par1193	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0372par1194	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a valuable orator who just spoke for the Justice and Development Party Group, said that due to his misinformation, salaries were not paid during previous administrations. Now, in the history of the republic, have there been years or years that can't be paid for public employees and pensioners, and if this has happened, what is its period of governments? I really care about that for public information, so if you'll just answer me, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0373par1197	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0374par1198	Mr. Secretary, there was a time when social security, someone, the people who ran the Social Security Agency, they saw it in separate, real estate purchases; they bought real estate all over Turkey, they bought inns, they bought baths. Some of them stayed out of town, some of them... For one thing, do you plan to reassess your former real estate, which is now in central space, which remains small, with skyscrapers rising beside it? Even though there are very high-rent buildings, there are no buildings in the Social Security Agency, and they can't compete near those buildings. Therefore, if you don't assess these real estates, especially in the growing city runt, they will disappear. I want to warn you one more time.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0373par1199	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0375par1200	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'd like to ask the question, of course this is not all about initiative anymore, what's the minimum price for improving BUG-KUR pensions after these improvements? What will the SEC pensioner charge after these improvements? I want you to explain this very clearly once again. Secondly, we have now been organized somewhere today in İzmir, where we have applied for authority, but we will never authorize it until it is legal, we will not identify it. A will has been put in place. So the law may be delayed, but the workers are organized. You of all people know how much trouble such a procedure can cause after the employment of organized workers. I want to know if you have an approach to stopping this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0376par1204	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0377par1205	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, can we please compare the numbers on this bill to the amount of income that will be obtained from people who are insured and retired because of their participation in the drug? The drug is the participation share and the burden of this bill. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0378par1208	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0379par1209	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I don't know about your patients, but many ministers, even the Prime Minister, have stated several times that the contractors will be recruited. The elections have been held, the government has been established, the program has been announced for a long time. When will you get it? They're waiting for an answer. When are you going to put him on? Which ones will you take? And the number of these private security personnel is almost 1 million. Do you have any thoughts about the fact that he's on the staff? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0380par1213	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1214	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to express to you that there is no such arrangement on our agenda regarding contractors and private security, not the matter, not the fact that they're being recruited. We've been asked by our Prime Minister to do a study on contracts, local governments, local administrations, municipalities. We'll present it to them. There are 17,800 contract personnel in the local government. This is a matter for the government to decide. Other than that, the total amount of drug participation -- I just gave you the numbers -- was around 1.1. I don't understand the rest of the problem, so I'm done with this part. We can also answer in writing. We haven't been able to publish statistics, employee statistics. This law, the 2821-2822 laws came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which will be discussed next week on the relevant commission -- the subcommittee passed today -- and so we will publish the statistics as soon as the law is in effect, and we will end this jurisdictional confusion. We, sir, wouldn't have set up the commission if we wanted to. I just used a sentence called Levent Bey's speech. So the AK PARTY Group is the group that wants to investigate these issues, and the group that wants to clarify these issues, and the group of AK PARTY, which is primarily on the side of enlightenment of all the dark points. We've established this Commission, we've created it. If the AK PARTY Group had a different opinion here, they would have looked for ways to avoid the establishment of this Commission. The commission's been established, and it's still working.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0382par1219	You couldn't afford it, so speak up!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0383par1220	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1221	Look, I invite you to speak the truth, young man. I've never had a voice, and I'm a friend of yours who answers all the questions that are asked here, and you're saying, "Be straight!" The EC PARTY that established this Commission... you may demand it, but if the ruling party opposes the establishment of a commission, we know that it cannot be established in Parliament. But we don't have anything to do with such a delicate case...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0384par1222	Let him answer our questions!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1223	One moment, sir, let's respond...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1224	But you're speaking very wrongly, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1225	Maybe...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0386par1226	Please, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1227	So the more we talk, the more our suffering gets. I mean, it can't be that kind of talk!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1228	What a pain! If you'll excuse me, my friend...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1229	I mean, it's like you think everyone's your soldier! No way!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1230	I'm just saying that the AK PARTY is sincere in this matter. This Commission has been established, Mr. President said in his speech in the group that it is not right for members of the commission to make a statement on issues that have not yet been ethically concluded, that have not been concluded. That's the thing.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1231	Mr. Secretary, it's been sixty-two days. You have all the documents and information, why don't you explain them?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1232	It's okay to talk. You can talk.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1233	Why don't you explain?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1234	So our president's ethical commission...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1235	Why are you arguing on the commission? I also speak for the AKP MPs. No way!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0387par1236	Mr. President, is that possible?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0381par1237	Mr. President, is there such a thing as this?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1238	You're accusing me.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0388par1239	Mr. Sky, please, the question has been asked...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0385par1240	You gave false information. You tell the commission, you have no right, I'm trying to tell it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0388par1241	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0389par1242	Mr. President, the Congressman is interrupting the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0390par1244	Mr. President, this is sensitive, very sensitive.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0391par1245	Mr. Sky, please... the Minister has been asked a question, he's responding.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0390par1246	Mr. Secretary is using a lot of false statements.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0391par1247	Mr. Sky, please... answer me, then...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0392par1248	Mr. Secretary, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0391par1249	Sir, now, a question has been asked, Mr. Sky, and he's responding. If you have any objections, take your seats, take your word and speak. That's the way it is. I beg you very much... very much...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0393par1250	But as he spoke, he spoke even more painfully.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0391par1251	You may not like the answer, you say it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0394par1252	Mr. Levent, you are here to accuse the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0393par1253	I'm not accusing you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0394par1254	Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0393par1255	I'm defending the Human Rights Commission here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0394par1256	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0395par1257	Mr. President, would that be possible, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0396par1258	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0397par1259	I'm defending human rights. No way! I'm a member of the accused Commission here. I also defend the AKP MPs.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0398par1261	Let go of me! It's not your place to defend us. It's not your place to defend yourself.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0397par1262	The Prime Minister has picked up the microphone at the group meeting, criticizing the Human Rights Commission.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0399par1263	Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0398par1264	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0399par1265	Yeah. Please, Mr. Sky, what you've said has been contained. You've spoken as you wish here. Please, sit down and if you'll excuse me... please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0398par1267	The question-answer part is complete. Go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0400par1268	Mr. President, let me just say that the Human Rights Commission is an independent organization.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0399par1269	Okay, sir, you've made that clear.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0400par1270	These should not be sacrificed to political strife.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0399par1271	That's right.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0401par1272	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0400par1273	In the words of the Prime Minister, our AKP MP friends are also under indictment. That's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0399par1274	All right, sir, your opinion is on the books. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0402par1276	Mr. President, continue the procedure.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0403par1277	Get your hands off us politically.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0404par1278	And you apologize for twisting the Prime Minister's words.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0405par1279	Okay, here you go. He's on the books. Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0406par1283	Mr. President, friends, now... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] If you'll excuse me, Mr. President. Here, on your speech, Mr. Prime Minister accuses our Prime Minister that the Commission should come to a point if you're going to make a statement about the actions and attitude of the EC PARTY Group towards these and similar dark points, and the Commission has reached a conclusion, of course, but the sentiment of our Prime Minister is this: if you're going to make a statement about this issue, let the Commission come to a point. It's actually your statements that are troubling the commission. Let me make this very clear.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0407par1287	What did we say?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0406par1288	You didn't say so, but these are the statements of our Prime Minister who is facing the members of the Commission that this Commission has actually contributed to a conclusion on this matter. There's no point in pulling this away. Or do we have a purpose for the commission to work independently, not to set up the commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0407par1289	But that's what you said. You said we wouldn't have if we wanted to.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0406par1290	So in your speech, I'm saying that if we hadn't been a group, a power for the enlightenment of these dark spots, they wouldn't have been established.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0407par1291	How can it not be installed, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0406par1292	But we want you to know that we want all the dark spots to be lit up. [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] I'll answer the other questions in writing, Mr. President, since there's no time.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0408par1295	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0409par1296	Mr. President, sir, this argument came up because of the question I asked. This argument came up on the question I asked. My question was, it wasn't the thanks of the Commission. Mr. Secretary said, "If we wanted to, we would have stopped it from coming up." That's what I asked.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0408par1298	Yes, sir, he's on the books.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0409par1299	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0408par1300	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0410par1301	Mr. President, I'd like to say something.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0408par1302	Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0410par1303	I'd like you to give the Minister three more minutes, and I'd like him to answer my questions about what the real growth of pensioners are waiting for, and my question about union rights and freedoms...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0408par1304	If they want to, Minister...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0411par1305	Mr. Secretary would have answered if it hadn't gone off the agenda.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0408par1306	One moment, sir... Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0412par1308	Friends, first of all, it's not being discussed in a conversational integrity, it's being taken out of there and... does it suit you that way? It's got a picture of it, it's got a camera, it's got what we say, it's obvious what we intend to do. So it's obvious what we're doing. The whole world knows what we're lighting up today. The whole world knows what's being covered up and what's being lit up by the AK PARTY. So, please, let's not take this any other way. Now, there's going to be a $27 increase in the 6th digit at the BUG-KUR, and you're saying about the new situation, and for the 24th step, the initiative in the BUG-KUR will bring an increase of 118 TL.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0413par1310	What's the minimum wage?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0412par1311	In this framework, the BUG-KUR ($1.409) monthly salary will be increased to $1,523 TL.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0413par1312	I'll give you the minimum price.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0412par1313	About that time, for this three-month period.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0413par1314	Yeah, three months, okay...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0412par1315	That's what I'm saying for this three-month period. Again, there is no decentralisation of branch managers in the USSR without a test, and they are currently conducting these tasks. In Law 5510, you know, about real estate, we brought an arrangement. If the need is not in question, then there's no way the institution can get it if it doesn't have a need for personal use of real estate, physical space. So we've closed that process, and there's no real estate in return for the purchase, but there's the sale or evaluation of our existing former real estate within the framework of legislation. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0414par1319	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the article 1/566 in Article 1 of the original draft be changed from the date of the term "Temporary 1." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the article 1/566 in Article 1 of the original draft be changed from the date of the term "Temporary 1." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the article 1/566 in Article 1 of the original draft be changed from the date of the term "Temporary 1." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the article 1/566 in Article 1 of the original draft be changed from the date of the term "Temporary 1." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the article 1/566 in Article 1 of the original draft be changed from the date of the term "Temporary 1." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The sum passed on Article 171 in the Interim Article 1 of the Common Law Bill is rejected and returned or not allowed. (The terms of the terms taken down by this law are returned to the demand of the person who is responsible for more than the amount taken down by this law or are subject to the debt imposed on the foundation. We demand and propose that it be changed. Oktay Vural Alim Işım Mehmet Şandir Emin Haluk Ayhan Mustafa Kalaycı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that the matter be removed from the text of rejection, extradition or non-refundable. Do you agree with the last reading motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0415par1353	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0414par1354	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0416par1355	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0414par1356	Mr. Young, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0417par1359	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my motion is to have a repeat. It's already in the article, and it's applied to fines that have not been paid even though they've already been paid, and then they'll keep it collected, and they won't be denied or returned or charged. If it's not collected, it's waived, and if it is, it won't be returned. That's a redundant statement. I wanted this taken off. Now, lawmakers, since the day the AKP came to power, they've always passed amnesty laws. See, Law 6111 is the largest pardon in the history of the Republic of Turkey. So the AKP came to power, most of its followers were tax evasion; they didn't study their accounts, they brought forgiveness, they forgave. In many administrations, he has pardoned those who have abused their duties, pardoned those who neglected them, brought those who have been implicated in the name of the tender corruption; whatever else you can think of, corruption, abuse, tax evasion, illegitimate wealth -- pardoned by Law 6111, which is his sequel. Now, what's he doing? So, you know, with this third clause, as much as the minimum cost of those who had not reported it before -- of course, this was gradual -- there was an administrative fine, as much as there was an administrative fine. Now they have reduced it to a tenth of it. Now, Mr. Ahmet isn't here either. So I said, let's take 1 tenth of that down to 1 fifth of that. He said: I don't understand this proposal. I was a member of parliament when Ahmet smelled of milk in your mouth. I mean, you don't have to... you don't have to... I don't have to... Now, for him, it's either now that people will know what they're talking about, and he'll know his place, and he'll know his place, you know? I say there's no less than a fifth of them. He's saying: "You've given the wrong motion. " Who are you to say that I gave the wrong motion? Hold on one more time... Now, look, a famous writer, friends, a thinker has a saying: "The lowest of lies is the lie told to the people and the children because they both believe very easily." Now, unfortunately, in this time of power, we see a great lie told to the people. Here, our friend just told us, a deputy prime minister said, "Sir, we're raising their pensions by 70 percent. I wish you'd increase them. I wish we could congratulate you here because today the most needy people are retired." These people, look, they come to us every day, people who say, "I can't read my child, I can't pay my rent, I'm hungry, I can't bring bread to my house." Sure, your salt is dry. What did you do on the congressman's pension? Here you have raised the salary of Bkent Arinc to 11,000, and you have removed Cemil Çiçin, and you have taken out the Rootal Toptan, and you have subtracted Mehmet Ali Şahin, and you have taken out Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0418par1365	Your salary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0417par1366	I mean, you've gone from 4 billion to 11.5 billion, of course, so that's not fair, is it? This is what you brought. So, after that, of course, you're in a good mood.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0419par1367	Aren't you going to get that salary?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0417par1368	Now, there's something going on here. Now, Mr. Minister says: "Sir, you have set up a commission, you will not speak as a commission." How can Mr. Recep instruct members of his own commission, but how can he instruct the MPs of the opposition? If it's the most democratic country in the world, if you have a responsibility in political power, the government can't stay in a place where 14 citizens are killed, they can't stay in office one day, friends. Sir, he says: "We have been gracious, we have set up a commission; it would not have been established if we didn't want to." Did you have the power? Could you stand not to set up that commission? So what you guys are talking about, whatever comes out of your mouth, you're just gonna have to do it once. Mr. Recep is coming out, he says: "TUSIAD, you can't have it." Who's it for? People do. Who's everybody? Who the hell is everybody? Is that you, Recep? No.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0420par1371	Don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0417par1372	What's your culture, what's your knowledge?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0420par1373	What do you know?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0417par1374	We asked him, he said... where's your diploma? Explain your degree. It doesn't explain where he's been graduating for seven years, his diploma.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0420par1375	If you have information, explain it to me.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0417par1376	Friends, look, there's the biggest discrimination in your reign in Turkey. Mr. Secretary, that's what we've done with unemployment. Look, I don't really think it's appropriate to do politics in faith and race, but in your rule, you didn't hire a leftist friend, people who believed in Alevi, you didn't hire high-level bureaucrats. The Constitutional Court is testing them the other day, making the first six people lose them verbally, and they're not taking the people they're supposed to take. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Actually, we're running out of time here, so I can't say it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0420par1380	Learn some law, then...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0421par1381	Mr. Young, thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The sum passed on Article 171 in the Interim Article 1 of the Common Law Bill is rejected and returned or not allowed. (The terms of the terms taken down by this law are returned to the demand of the person who is responsible for more than the amount taken down by this law or are subject to the debt imposed on the foundation. We demand and propose that it be changed. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0422par1388	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0421par1389	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0423par1390	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0421par1391	Mr. Light, please. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0424par1394	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on the interim Article 1 of the Law Bill 171 that is being discussed. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to share with you the matter I've just asked the Minister about and I haven't received his answer. I don't know, is our friend here who made these statements? Prior to the government, pensions could not be received, pensions could not be paid. Once again, I record that the word is false information. There were times in this country when there were no pay hikes, but no government official and no pensioner lived a year or a month without their salary. When these MPs get here, they have to confirm every word they say.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0425par1397	Prove otherwise.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0424par1398	My friend, the reports are here. If you're defending your deputy, you'll come and defend it from here. Lying doesn't suit any deputy under this great roof because 75 million people who are watching us think every word that comes out of this place is true. Therefore, I want to correct that mistake.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0426par1399	They paid for the earthquake.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0424par1400	You can talk from here. It doesn't matter where he gave it, was it given or not? The MP who came up here did not receive the salary. He said. So, I can see where you're getting it from.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0427par1402	Where did you give it to him?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0424par1403	You've spent years spending taxes on earthquakes elsewhere. Let's not go in there. Now, our motion on this matter, valued lawmakers, is that when he laid off the worker for any reason, a business owner who did not report to the Social Insurance Agency had to pay a minimum wage per worker. In this law, the penalty was reduced to a tenth of the minimum wage. Thus, when it is reduced to one in ten, some ruling party supporters will benefit from this pardon. Now from here, I ask Mr. Secretary, which subcontractors have been sentenced to these sentences now and will benefit from this pardon, how many people will take advantage of it? Now, if these are going to benefit, then we're going to say that the honest workers, the workers, the people who pay their salary on time, the people who pay their dues, the people who pay their dues on time, if they're in this group before the execution date of the law and they're paying their dues, we're going to say, "Let's return the money that's been taken down, or we're going to dismiss it." Now, what's wrong with that, Minister? You won't protect an honest citizen, but you'll save a condemned citizen who didn't fulfill his obligation to the state in time, but you'll punish honest people. Not this one. That's the essence of this motion. Therefore, I hope that this motion will be supported by the High Assembly. Of course, my word is not always for some MPs whose fingers are raised in the direction of power. I'm also specifying this as anthrparantesis. Dear lawmakers, I would like to share a few more issues in the remaining time: especially before the elections, the issue of pensions in the election declarations of all political parties, even in different ways, was on the public's agenda from that day on, and a real hope was pumped into millions of pensioners. That's what the government did. But this law, which came today, has become a law that only meets 1 percent of the hope that has been pumped, one percent in a thousand; it is extremely limited, far from the principle law, that it does not move pensioners to a certain year before a certain period. If the statements of Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc who appeared in the media today are true, then the government is discussing a second policy. Mr. Secretary would explain that, but we'd be happy to do so if there was a 70-percent-percent interview with pensioners. But from Mr. Minister's corrections, the Deputy Prime Minister seems to have gotten excited, told the pensioners about it at the groundbreaking ceremony there, but that's not true either. There's another thing, especially since 2013. Again, for a year, this will change between $10 and $290, causing a lot of people to talk about the money. I hereby salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0428par1411	Thank you, Mr. Light. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the motion of Mr. Light and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, since the motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion makers, or I'm going to have them read their motives. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the introduction of the 1/566 original bill to be changed from the date of its temporary 1st amendment to its direction. If you don't want to talk to the motion holders, I'll have them read the grounds.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0429par1432	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0430par1433	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0428par1434	One second... one second...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0430par1435	I wanted to make a motion...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0428par1436	Mr. Commission, do you agree with the following motions?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0431par1437	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0428par1438	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0432par1439	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0428par1440	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0433par1441	Mr. President, I wanted to contribute. I'm here at eleven in the morning, and I want to contribute here. That's an abuse of rights. Since they want to contribute to the motion, the incomes defend the motions or say I don't speak. One of the motion holders isn't here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0434par1442	There's, there's...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0435par1443	There is...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0433par1444	That's an abuse of rights.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1445	Mr. Aslanoglu, yes, your words have been filed, but there are others who are not here, and I'm asking now...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0433par1446	Anyone who isn't here...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1447	Excuse me for a moment, sir. Wait a second... you guys talked. Now, would anyone like to speak to the motions other than the fact that they're being read?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0437par1449	Mr. President, I have a motion. Read the reason.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1450	They want your alibi read.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0438par1451	Mr. President, if anyone has a motion that isn't here, I've made a motion that you should consider my motion.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1452	Look, Mr. Aslanoglu, there are other motions that aren't here that have been found to sign. We're not looking for this.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0438par1453	Sir...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1454	That's not the way we do things. There are other motions that have been signed and are not here. So there's nothing to be done here.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0438par1455	You're abusing the right, Mr. President, and the Presidential Court is abusing the right.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1456	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0438par1457	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1458	Unfortunately... he's filed a report. I now submit the motions to your votes:
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0439par1460	Reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1461	Read the reason. Reason: It is intended to use a plain language of expression. Okay, that's the reason for all the motions. And since no one wants to talk about the motions, I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 1 is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0440par1467	Mr. President, why don't you take a ten-minute break?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0436par1468	...it is the Fourth Amendment of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text, but demands that a clause be changed, which is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has mostly participated in. So I'm going to read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission takes part in the motion, in the majority -21 members - I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Now, I'm going to read the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the addition of the following Interim Article to the current Bill of the 171 rows. Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı A scholar's light Emin Haluk Ayhan Temporal matter 2: The period of old age shall be binding on those who are insured before 2000, if they complete the number of days and years of service requirements required for retirement, according to the legislation on which they are insured, if they do not apply from the date of the application of this law, regardless of the age requirement. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0441par1479	We don't agree because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0442par1480	Did you call the only majority?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0443par1481	Did you call, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0444par1482	Since the commission didn't agree with the motion, most of the time...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0443par1483	Mr. President, give me a call, but call me.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0444par1484	I'll remove the motion from the process. MADDE 7 - Articles 5 of this Law and 6 of the Law take effect in January 2013, during the payment period, in the date of its release of other substances. There's no word on the matter for groups.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0445par1488	I do. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0446par1489	He's not a group vice president, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0445par1490	I'm gonna ask you?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0446par1491	You're not the vice president of the group. You're gonna ask me! You don't have that authority.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0445par1492	Yeah, they gave it to me. I've got door-to-door clearance, if you want, I'll show you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0447par1493	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0448par1495	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the amendment of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is ranked 171, regarding the interim Article 1. I salute you all again. [[Article 7 of the AK PARTY rankings, sounds, noises]] I said temporary article 1.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0449par1499	It's not a temporary one, sir, it's on the 7th.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0448par1500	Regarding the 7th Amendment, I apologize. Sure, it's 11 o'clock. We started at 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00,
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0450par1501	Temporal matter accepted, sir. You're talking about Article 7, Mr. Kusoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0448par1502	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during his talks yesterday and today...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0451par1504	Wake up and let's go fishing.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0452par1505	Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0448par1506	My dear friends, I'm a friend of yours who's worked on this. I also have information that can be considered an expert in social security, and I have experience. I've worked on these issues in the past. In the morning, I attended meetings all day, without fail, without fail. It's 11:00 in the morning. I've been working on the subject since 00, and I've been up early in the morning, and I've been working ever since. Could be a slip of the tongue, could be a mistake. We're sitting on an empty stomach, working this late. We can all make a mistake, we can all make a mistake. There's no point in getting up and taking advantage of it because we're talking about something very important, something that concerns millions, that everyone's been looking forward to all these years. It's not a matter to be taken lightly, it's not to be mocked. I'm so sorry. We've worked on these things, worked on them for years. I, along with Mr. Kilicdaroglu -- in his speech yesterday and today -- tried to remind him of that time with a very professional obstruction -- with a negative perception of the issue -- at that time, I'm not exaggerating, there was retirement at the age of 38 and forty-two, and we brought in more than thirty drafts here, with that General Kurula. Almost none of them have been legalized, they haven't, even though we're so right -- thirty eight and forty-two -- and it's a very large explanation. What's going on? Why can't we be patient with that? What's wrong with us? So we're saying it's irrelevant, that this shouldn't be discussed?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0453par1508	We're saying it shouldn't be stopped.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0448par1509	It's not blocked, sir, neither in the subcommittee nor in the Plan and Budget Commission, nor in the Health and Social Affairs Commission. But let's face it -- I've told you before -- it looks like at least 20 billion in the accounts you're doing -- the cost of that seems to be at least 11 and 38 billion in our bids. The reason this hasn't come out in years is because it's expensive. And you haven't been able to rule for ten years. Our predecessor, the Minister before Mr. Secretary, has not been able to remove it even though he promised to do so at the Labour Retirement Society. The motive was that it was always cost-effective. Today's bill -- I still thank the Minister -- 2.7 billion is 1.5 per cent of the Social Security Agency's budget. Is that why we've kept our pensions waiting for years? For him, we're trying to explain as much as possible how important this is, how important it should be, or no one's trying to stop him. So you're saying this bill, which brings up to five percent of the Turkish budget, has been expected for 24 years? Are you trying to tell me that if this comes out, our pensioners will be happy, happy, peaceful? There's no such thing. We're just saying, it's not an impression. If our government's resources aren't enough, pensioners will wait another 24 years with dignity. But it's not a law of attitude, let's face it. That's what we're saying, we're not trying to stop it. If it suits our pensioners, why stop them, and why cause them trouble? I'm talking about, look, even when it's 38 and 42 years old, we've brought in close to 30 bills, none of which have been legalized, but there's no response like this. If you don't think so, Mr. Secretary, you should come out as ruling party deputies and defend yourself. Is there anything to defend that? Yes, it's a raise, and it brings something to the pensioner, but is it possible to call it intuitive? What working community, including the labour pensioner community, which is now a member of the board, has been called indivisible? I watched them all on the commission, and none of them could say, "This is the law of principle." That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0454par1514	You don't say ten hours!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0448par1515	Ten hours is the word. How many hours do we have? Of course we have ten hours. Politics... what do you mean, ten hours?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0454par1516	We've been listening for ten hours!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0455par1517	Mr. Kaçir, don't listen, get out!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0454par1518	If you can't tell me in ten hours, you can't tell me anything.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0455par1519	Mr. Kaçir, you don't understand.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0456par1520	Now, that's what you're saying... Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0457par1522	Please, please, let's hear it, folks. You should address the House directly, Mr. Kusoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0456par1524	Is that true, in style and in context, for God's sake? Is that any way to talk?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0458par1525	You don't want to talk, they told you to come out and talk. You're talking.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0459par1526	It's been eight minutes, let's hear it, let's understand it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0456par1527	Yeah, with a law that came out this year... look, I'll tell you something else, I just asked the Minister, you know, a month and a half ago, there was a law, insurance and pensioners only get $1 a pill. Even this money costs $1.1 billion, so it costs half as much as that, and it's paid for by them. If we take the contribution portion, the other contribution, the 68th article, it's much higher. So this is what we've been bringing in, arguing about, what's been expected for 24 years? Look, we've been waiting for you for eight hours, we're arguing, people who've waited 24 years! If you worked together with the valued congressman, paid the same bonus, then you got 40 percent lower salary, would you be able to bear it? We're trying to talk them out of it, we're trying to talk about injustice, injustice, the situation of the troubled, what should we do if you haven't understood it for eight hours? So that's the thing to say? I'm really sorry. It shouldn't have been said. We're trying to do something with good intentions, infractions.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0460par1529	I wish you hadn't done the same thing!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0461par1530	You're on demand, you're talking, you don't even know what you're talking about, and you're talking!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0462par1532	Mr. Ünal, don't come out, sit down, sit down, I'll talk now.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0463par1533	Please, let's hear it, folks, let's hear it. Mr. Kusoglu, please address the Parliament.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0464par1535	What difference does it make to you, after I don't know how to listen or understand, what matter does it make to you?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0465par1537	Mr. Bulent, go ahead, you're the expert, teach your friends, teach them!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0463par1538	Yes, please...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0464par1539	My dear friends, the most important part of the matter is the creation of social security consciousness. We all have our roles in this matter. If we can't create this social security awareness in the citizen and especially here, if we don't understand how important this is, the laws we've passed, the salaries we'll pay, it doesn't matter. We need to see how important it is. Now, Mr. Arinc said today that I was on the Internet when my friends told me that I was on the Internet, and I looked at it -- he says that we've done a lot of alternative work. He says, as Deputy Prime Minister, he admits that this bill is too low, he admits that it doesn't bring anything, we're working on a bill that will give the pensioners a 70 per cent increase. A moment ago - perhaps the Minister doesn't know - it puts him in a difficult position, it puts him in trouble. Now, when there's no satisfaction, no satisfaction for the government, no satisfaction for the Deputy Prime Minister, which he has to say, we've been talking about it for eight hours now, and you still can't explain it... that's a saying, for God's sake! You're making me forget what we're gonna say and what we're doing. What's the use? I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0466par1544	Mr. Kuyoglu, thank you. No further requests for their group. Mr. Mahmut Kozar of Şanlıurfa, on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0467par1548	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the 7th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I hereby salute the High Council. As we all know, the Constitution is emphasised that the republic is a democratic, secular social law state, while it counts. When it comes to the social state, it comes to the mind of a state that increases the welfare level of a citizen, does not crush his pension and employee with inflation, reflects on the pension and employee of the country's growth and development, leaving a large portion of the budget for health and social services. When you look at the last nine years of Turkey, we have been able to see that the social state principle has not been a definition of the Constitution for years, but has actually been living. In the last nine years, we have been able to see that the budget for health and social services in Turkey has increased and increased daily. We're here today to discuss an important bill involving 1,900,000 SEC pensioners and part-time BUG pensioners. Before the AK PARTI rule, we've all seen what a great deal of suffering happens to SEC pensioners and BUG pensioners when they receive their basic right to health care. He was sentenced to SEC hospitals when he received health care from a SEC pensioner or a BUG pensioner, where he went from six o'clock in the morning to be examined in hospitals and waited in the hospital queues, and this time he was faced with a new line of drugstores to pick up his medication, and when it was his turn at the pharmacy, millions of pensioners had lived in this country for years to see if they could find the drugs he had written in the pharmacy. Today, the SEC has become a home care provider for our pensioners, as well as our SEC pensioners, who are no longer able to apply for health care in public hospitals or private hospitals or even hospitals for old age and health reasons. Despite all the economic problems in the world and in our region, praise be to God, a country that continues to grow year after year. It is a country that has carried out arrangements to improve growth and this level of prosperity. When we look at the increase in SEC pensions and BUG pensions in Turkey over the past nine years, we see that there has been a real increase in SEC pensions at about 38 per cent and 48 per cent, while in BUG pensions, this is at a record level of 94 per cent to 227%. Real growth means, as you all know, that pensioner and employee do not get crushed by inflation and get a cut before they grow. Our friends, who have been quoted here in this arrangement, have some approaches about 1,900,000 people who are heavily involved and that there are very few improvements. I think it's a very important approach to trivialize the bill, and I don't think that's the right approach. We have 1,900,000 SEC pensioners who are taking advantage of this place, and I would like to remind you that about 80 percent of them have an increase in pensions between $100 and $300. Before I put an end to my remarks, the Republican People's Party had an assessment of the İstanbul MP about Şanlıurfa. First, I care to remind the Congressman that he's looking for the heads of the hall and that he's from the chiefs... He made some indications of the problems of Şanlıurfa. In our politics, he has no sense of politics by making calls from where he sits, like our Congressman did. In our understanding, a citizen has a sense of how to go to his feet to identify the problem and to solve it accordingly. Şanlıurfa made a political decision with 65 per cent vote support and 10 MPs on June 12th, and today, as 10 MPs, we do a lot of changes and transformations from education to health, from agriculture to becoming a brand city of Şanlıurfa.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0468par1557	Thank you. Time's up.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0467par1559	My recommendation to this Congressman friend is that he come to Sanlıurfa to determine the transformation in its place...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0468par1560	Mr. Runar, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0467par1561	... I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0468par1563	Second speaker on behalf of Mehmet Mush, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0469par1565	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 7th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act. I salute your high council. Turkish retirement history has entered a new phase as of 2002, and a downward trend has been terminated, where pensions have fallen, pensions have been crushed to inflation; with a sharp turn, receiving power increases, serious real growths in months, and structural problems have been solved in favour of pensioners in favour of pensioners. The principle law, which we discussed today at the General Assembly, stood before us as a structural problem that has been waiting to be resolved for many years. Although the same day and the same premiums were deposited, a number of salary differences have arisen against those demanding pensions before 2000, as a result of a progression rate in calculating pensions after 2000. In a simpler way, those who retired before 2000 did not get a share of Turkey's development after 2000. With the initiative brought in, the pensions connected before 2000 were intended to reflect Turkey's prosperity and development from 2000 to 2008, regardless of sub-restriction implementation, to be used on the actual gains and the number of days that insurance people deserve without implementing them in proportion to the amount of time they remain in the system. Thus, a different salary application will be lifted to equal bonuses and equal bonus days and will be applied to equal salaries with the introduction of living pensioners. Not only the pensioners, but the disability and death-periods will benefit from this bill. The same premium payments will include over 1.9 million pensioners, although under-insured for the same period of work, with a share of the speed of development for pensioners before 2000. Although nearly 2.5 billion Turkish liras constitute an additional budget burden, there will be no deviation in fiscal and budget discipline. The fact that the law has been in harmony with the comprehensive mid-term financial plan 2012-2014, which has been announced to the public in the past months is the most concrete example of this. As the European-based global financial crisis passes through an economic process, Turkey and the EC PARTI government have no hesitation in implementing the principle law, which will provide additional cost for the state budgetary budget, on a ground where governments seek to reduce budget cuts and pensions. Alone, this genius is the clearest indication that the AK PARTY government is following a policy next to the pensioner. So far, our power, which has brought regulations and policies and standards of our pensioners to higher levels of living, has taken place in our pensioners' hearts as the only institution that our pensioners can and can trust in their practical lives. The draft law, with the difference of the main axis, will be implemented on the same day it was published, except for the 5th and 6th article, with the difference in attitude. The exceptions, five and six, will be in effect in January 2013. As of this date, the premiums and premiums on pensions, which are the issue of initiative, will be increased to the highest of $339, depending on the number of days. I wish this bill well for all pensioners and pensioners. Despite all these positive developments, I would like to inform you that as decision makers aware of the need for our pensioners to have better living standards, we will continue our work more intensively to be worthy of the generosity of our beloved nation and pensioners. I wish the bill of law to bring good luck, and I wish you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0470par1575	Thank you, Mr. Mush. We're going to do a QA on the matter. From our friends entering the system, Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0471par1578	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intervention, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary this question. According to Turkey's latest study, the hunger limit for a family of four is $974, and the poverty limit is $3,171. When do you plan to raise your lowest pension above the poverty line, Mr. Secretary? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0472par1581	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0473par1582	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, I just asked, and I want a straight answer again, please. What's the minimum Social Insurance pensioner going to get after this improvement? That's my first question. Second question: I've just asked, and I'd like to ask you again: Yesterday, an application was made by the Press-Business Union, which was recently organized in a business in İzmir. The ministry says no identification will be made without the Unions' Law, and no identification will be given. Let's say the law comes out of the House in a month. Will it wait a month? I'd like to know your approach on this matter. I'm asking concrete questions, and I'm asking concrete answers.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0474par1586	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0475par1587	Sir, we express each time that we didn't crush the taxpayers with inflation. We say, "It's the same thing today." At the minimum wage, I estimate the increase of 12.4, you watched carefully, and all the public watched with care and appreciation. During this nine-year period, we see that in parallel with the level of our economy's development, those who are paid are taking advantage of it, pensioners are taking advantage of it. We need to consider the world's developments. We need to look under that responsibility here, in a responsibility with his opposition and his power, in order for the administration to form a integrity. What's going on in the world, against what's going on around us, is how Turkey has taken steps in raising wages, and that's how we've done it today, including the law of attitude, in resolving past setbacks. Our citizens believe in our sincerity in this matter, so our citizen believes that the government does not hesitate to use it to its citizens as the new achievements, budgetary, financial gains are achieved. The minimum wage is now 869 a month in base as a SEC, 4/AK, but there are so many different numbers that it differs from the premiums they pay. But the lowest month is 869 TL. 4/A. I mean that. Let us introduce you to a detailed table, and you will be able to study it. We had to release the statistics on the unions as of January 17th. The law passed through the Council of Ministers, which is about to arrive at the General Assembly. He passed the subcommittee today. In the next week, I'm guessing, most likely, that's what I'm getting from the Commissioner, the information I'm getting from the Commission will meet on Wednesday at the main commission, with the General Assembly, and we'd like to quickly publish the statistics in March and put an end to this mess of authority. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0476par1592	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, there are two motions on the matter; I will first have the motions read according to the order of arrival, and then I will process the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is listed in 171 rows, has been adopted. We demand and demand that the clause be changed in the following manner. 28.02.2012 Aydın Ayyadın Süleyman Çelebi Hasan Ören Bulent Kuşoğlu Musa Çam Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Müslim Sarı Kazım Kurt Kadir Gökmen Öğümüm Article 7- This goes into effect in the history of law enforcement. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 7th draft of the 171th row in sight. We propose and supply to change the terms of the article of the pearl to,2013. Oktay Vural Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Zuhal Topcu Mustafa Kalaycı Ali Öz Erkan Akçay Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0477par1615	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0476par1616	Your Majesty? Mr. President, may I make a brief statement? Please, come in. Now, once, technically, we have a chance to make it to January 2013, with a very good use of time. Saturday, Sunday, we're going to have all of our staff working hard, and we have an obligation to go over these 2 million 733,000 files one by one, that's one aspect. Part two: As a government, we have stated that we will pay it in accordance with the law that will gradually retire in this four-year period. When you take that into consideration, we can't agree to this motion because we both paid for the technical imperative and the promise we made two years ago. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0478par1622	Motive...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0476par1623	I'm reading the reason: According to this Law, it is recommended that the months calculated should be implemented starting in January 2012. If the motion is adopted, the date of its implementation must be changed to the date of its release in the history of January 2012, which is valid from the period of payment. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 7th Amendment to Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, which is listed in 171 rows, has been adopted. We demand and demand that the clause be changed in the following manner. 28.02.2012 Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Article 7: This goes into effect in the history of law enforcement. Mr. Commission, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0479par1634	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0476par1635	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0480par1636	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0476par1637	Who's gonna talk? Mr. Cetin, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0481par1641	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made in Article 7 of the Law Proposal 171. I salute you all. Dear friends, as our Minister has just said, we have met as all groups, and after a number of discussions, we will accept the opposition's contribution despite motions, which have been rejected by the ruling majority, in which Turkey has such problems, especially in favour of employees, for which a number of laws have been held on commissions. So we -- I told you in my speech for the group -- we sincerely want our pensioners to have the human level of life they deserve, and as the Republican People's Party, we've tried to explain how to do it, what needs to happen. Now, I've told you that in terms of initiative, past-age pensioners and pensioners should be able to equate their status and at least achieve equality within themselves. Now, there's not a text in the bill that says that no one says "intigation" except the pensioners. I'm stressing that. And the Minister can't look at us when he says "intigative," and he knows it's not an attitude, and you know it. Why isn't it an attitude? Because for a moment, even if you accept that this law was adopted after the law was passed for employees in the pre 2000 period, it is my duty to say that, again and again, pensioners from before 2000, pensioners from 2000 to 2008, pensioners from 2008, this process will be broken again in time, especially after 2008. Of course, it's a proprietary clause. Especially our pensioners, almost all of them, would have been watching us by now if the televisions were on, but since you've taken that opportunity from our citizens by shutting down Parliament TV, maybe they'll read it in the transcripts. You've already talked to the reports. Dear friends, I want you to know clearly that in this bill, I underline that no number the Minister has given is correct. If you say, "Why?," we will review 2 million, 733,000 files again, but then we will grow them one by one. Dear friends, either problems with the Ministry's bureaucrats are being blocked or the Ministry is deliberately trying to mislead this work because it has not been announced since two years, delaying, delaying, delaying statistics, delaying... Banks established according to Article 506's interim 20th article, reaccessions companies and foundations have been transferred to SGK for a three-year period in 2008, followed by a two-year delay, which is now postponed. And this is a bill of inefficiency. So I want to say good luck to our pensioners. But by the time they get their hands on them, a large part of them will be gone again, and the wives and children of those who have passed away in the past years will not be able to receive those differences. So I'm just saying, please -- Mr. Glory also said -- be careful of the opposition from time to time without drafting these laws. In the commissions, I ask you to be open to our proposals -- we are citizens of this country, we are people, we are lawmakers -- of this country. You've turned all the institutions upside down, you've got them all, so please, at least make the laws right. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0482par1650	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Cetin and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 8-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the MHP Group, Mr Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0483par1658	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, dear MPs, you're really tired, thank you very much for your efforts on behalf of our pensioners. We're making an important law. Under the responsibility of being a state, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in order to hand over a right to be the nation's legislature, we spent about ten hours of overtime together, and here we came up with a law that would meet the expectations of nearly 2 million of our people. I wish you all the best, but I would like to hereby present to you some truth, or to me, from the truth, to your appreciation, to your discretion. Dear friends, I repeat, justice is the foundation of property. Sovereignty belongs to the nation, but there is a obligation to be just in order to ensure that the state, which is the embodiment of this sovereignty, can be permanent. So you have to write on the opposite wall that justice is the foundation of property for every member of parliament to read here. We're trying to eliminate an injustice today. The state, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has made its own rules, has wronged the citizens by its rule; has changed status, has altered history, has changed order, has done the same work, has created differences among people who serve at the same time. Now, we're correcting part of this, but there's a fact: justice is an ash, a whole, a whole. It means that if he does not correct one thing, correct the injustice of one, or correct the injustice of the same society, which is about public employees, employees of the government, or those who make a living by using their hard work, the rule maker, correcting one injustice, does not provide justice, he enlarges injustice. Now, of course, Mr. Minister's efforts, his sensitivity are appreciated, and I'm not saying anything, but in this regard, there are statements from the former Minister. Look, he says: "Is there no injustice among retired people? Isn't there injustice between workers and farmers, farm pensioners? Is there no injustice among the members of the retired Ark? Can we say that we've corrected all of this? There is another truth, dear friends. You've been running Turkey alone for ten years on behalf of the Turkish nation, you have no excuse. If these injustices were a fact, it was your responsibility to correct it so far. After nine years, you have no right to come here and say, "Here's what we're fixing." It doesn't satisfy anyone, and with the correction you've made, you're not actually ending injustice, you're deepening it. So now I'm asking from here again. A friend of ours -- where is Mr. Kaçir -- says you talk a lot. But look, we talked in the morning, he invited the commission today, the subcommittee. There should be a law on civil servants, civil servants, which has been put on hold at the subcommittee for a 2012 raise on pensions. You, as a government, are doing the necessary raises just after the anniversary, you have the right, and you have the power, but why don't you give your officer his dues, why don't you give him a pay raise? You need the law to do that. The law comes here, but you keep it on the subcommittee. We spoke this morning, and I just found out that the Commissioner invited the subcommittee to a meeting. Well, I'm going to say this again, and I'm going to say this by example: so much injustice in the government's personnel system. Without fixing this, there is no way that we can maintain inner peace, peace of work, the will to live together. Come on, fix this. What's the catch? We'll finish your bonus. We'll call it. But unfortunately, at this point, it's always postponed by developing an excuse. Now, Mr. Secretary says we didn't do populism. Is that so, Minister?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0484par1668	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0483par1669	How are we going to evaluate the words of our Deputy Prime Minister? That's how he ended up in all the agencies. Mr. Bkent Arinc argued at the Council of Ministers, offered 50%, then our Minister of Labor, 60 per cent, then 70 per cent of understanding. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Treasury have also given a positive opinion, saying we will increase pension by 70 per cent. Mr. Secretary, is this the law of a raise? Is that a raise law, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0485par1671	Who died in a lie?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0486par1672	There's no such certainty.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0483par1673	Sir, notes here in front of me. Mr. President, Congressman, I mean, it's important what you say, but it's important to be perceived. That's how it reflects on the press.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0486par1675	You create that perception.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0483par1676	Sir, that's how it reflects on the press. So Mr. Bulent Arinc is a politician who can use Turkish with great skill. But when we see the crowd, we argue at the board of ministers, we will raise pension by 70 percent. The name of retirement is a very obvious, very rude populism, or this is a much more difficult one, Nebi Hoxha, you know better: to tell the truth by changing the truth, to tell the truth, to tell the truth is to be unjust according to our faith. And the recompense of wrong-doing is a severe punishment. Mr. Bulent Arinc is obliged to know, and he is obliged to speak through the investigation of his speech. If he's not sensitive, he's telling the truth by changing it. We're describing this very, very light, it's populism. We're calling it populism. I also want to say that Mr. Arinc has no intention of changing the truth in the form of persecution, and I want to believe that. But Mr. Secretary, after nine years, you have no right to present to this community because we did the tasks you did not do. I've done it by ignoring the contribution of the opposition, ignoring a very important, very necessary law. You have no right to deceive or deceive the nation by saying, "It's the right thing to do." Another thing I would like to say, Mr. Minister, is that if they complete the number of days and years of service requirements required for retirement according to the legislation which was insured before this 2000, they will not be required to apply for this law on the basis of the application date of their age, you have denied our proposal according to the legislation. I mean, do you realize that you've taken another right to deliver one right to injustice? What's he gonna do? These are our citizens, aren't they, Mr. President? Another thing: we made another motion, and we said, "Come, let's start this in 2012." You said, "It's not enough." Thank you, it's true, it won't grow, but let's make it available from 2012. Isn't it right to pay that delay starting in 2012? Why are we jealous of your own citizen's right to retire, why don't we? We make these proposals, you don't even consider them worth studying, and then you say: "You talk too much. " It's not true, dear friends. We said, "We'll complete it by 9:30." We finished by 9:30. If we hadn't had some unnecessary discussion, Mr. Mahir Ünal, I mean, if you hadn't come in here and talked about February 28th, if you hadn't come here and talked about the divided roads, if you hadn't praised the fact that you had built so many houses, if you hadn't caused this discussion, this law would have ended at 9:30. After all, I wish him good luck and good luck. As the National Movement Party, we always say that we will support any arrangement that meets the expectations of a single citizen by not running from any sacrifice. And that's the kind of law we're going to support, and I thank you all, and I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0487par1684	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Süleyman Çelebi is an Istanbul MP. Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0488par1688	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you with respect and love. First of all, we've tried to make it clear that since this law came to the agenda of our Parliament, in the lower commission, in the Plan Budget, in parliament, this is not a law of principle, it's not going to be a policy, it's not going to happen by force, and all indications are very clear. I've been trying to ask you, what's going to change in pensioners' lives? Will pensioners really be able to make a new contribution to your house, except for the ones taken from your own pocket? Because everything goes up, the bread goes up, the meat goes up, the milk goes up, the rent goes up, electricity, natural gas...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0489par1691	There's a raise in the water supply every day.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0490par1692	Update is his name, not a raise!
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0488par1693	Is the pensioner's life going to get any better at the end of all this? That's the question we're asking. The answer to that question is this: I speak to your conscience, dear friends. There are pensioners near all of you with those qualities. Many pensioners are currently applying to many employers to work again. I'd like to work as a waiter, hire me at a construction site, if you want me to. There are pensioners who say, "I'll work at a construction site." There's no way you're not hearing this. We live in this country together, we face these people together in this country. Now, the mountain gave birth to a mouse. As a result, the hunger limit is 973 liras in this country -- not by our numbers, but by TÜİK. I asked, pensioners who'll get paid under $900 again. What will the BUG-KUR take? He'll get a salary of 500 lira. Eat, Dad, eat! Doy Dad, doy! Long live my father! Long live my father! If that's healing, if that's behavior, it's protecting the pensioners' rights, and woe to us! Dear friends, when we discussed the date of the execution before the Minister's Plan and Budget Commission, we have money, we have resources in the budget. We have a source, but it won't grow. We've suggested, "Give it to me in advance." We've rejected it. Now I propose again: since there's money in the budget, there's a share in the pensioner's budget, that's what you said in the Plan and Budget Commission, at least don't take this year's rights. You took away the past, they took away the past, they destroyed it in some way. What is this arrangement for? It's in the interest of resolving the injustice of the past. Is it not the most conscientious thing to undo this injustice for the year the law has been enforced, let alone the extremism of the past? Don't we have to do a little bit of soul-searching on this? From a retired standpoint, dear friends: Nasreddin Hoxha owes a debt to someone. They went to the teacher, pay his debt, don't you think it's rude? How much do I owe you? - 50 bucks. - If I give you five bucks next week, what's left? - 45 bucks. - What's left if I give you five bucks next week? - 40 bucks. Finally, he went down to five bucks and said: "Don't you feel ashamed to talk to me for five dollars?" Now, if you think that we're going to make some improvements after this law goes into effect, and we're going to tell you about it, maybe you can tell us about it today. With the media, with the media, with the means of communication, maybe today we've decorated it and done some very good work for the pensioners. You can tell them that the day that pensioner gets that money in his pocket, you get more out of that pensioner's pocket. Now, the advance money you're taking from the pensioner's pocket, then you're giving it to him without interest, that's the essence, that's the application. So at least we still have a chance to get this process right. We're in your final seconds, you've ignored the various suggestions we've made in terms of the regulation of this substance, and in terms of setting a minimum hunger limit. At this time of night, you've worked so hard, I'm not the kind of person who rejects all efforts in these matters, I'm not the one who ignores them. But if you have to be conscientious, he can't travel, he can't travel, he can't travel, he can't go on vacation. Let's fix it, let's heal it partially. At least, I mean, let's give him back the money we took out of his pocket, and we want that, and that's how it's supposed to be perceived. Otherwise, we're not in the middle of doubling the afaki sum here. Mr. Cemil Cicek said: "If Agha's hand is not held, then the Agha must open his safe to the pensioners if he is in charge of a place. Because on the outside, the pensioners are really excited that today Turkey thinks there's going to be a clean recovery in the Grand National Assembly, and it's waiting. But let's not make it a big disappointment. We've created it before. Lawmakers' salaries were discussed in this parliament; lawmakers' salaries were exaggerated, pensions were exaggerated, they said. A friend of mine just came in -- it doesn't matter -- he's insured, he's from BUG-KUR, they've been cut off. My congressman friends, one of them's mine. It's about us, about the pension we get from lawmakers, the pensions we get, at least, in the image -- I know what you're spending -- but at least I'm alive, but let's not spare a tenth of it from pensioners. Then we'll really make peace with the pensioners, then in the hearts of the pensioners, this is really a neat contribution to our production processes... by pouring in sweat, by paying huge prices, some by cutting off their arms from their bodies. In this last article and in the matter of execution, especially at this stage, I propose once again to the Minister of the High Assembly: I do not say that the hand of the Aga is not to be held. You're the Minister, the Minister of the State, of course, I'm aware of that -- we have so much dialogue with you. Come, for humanity's sake, let's make a minimum improvement while we still have the chance. So let's make sure that a base fee is not limited to both pensioners and Social Insurance pensioners. It's too much, it doesn't cost. The number I'm talking about is a 100 lira improvement from the minimum. Don't see too much of 100 lira. At least at this hour, at this time, at this time of night, without seeing too much, I suggest this. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0491par1710	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. On the matter, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1713	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, this is the most difficult time to talk, to rest, and I know that, and I know that, but I've made a promise with a summary, and I thank you very much. Now, first of all, as power, as AK PARTY, we are at peace and happiness in fulfilling a promise to our nation. We promised our nation that we would do it together here before the year is over; that's one. Secondly, friends, I'm having a hard time understanding. Now, you've listened to Mr. Solomon here, and he says, "Let's give 100 liras. Now, I ask you, whether our work is improving, whether our work is going to increase...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0493par1716	Don't fix it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1717	...or, as you described on the other hand, the attitude?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0494par1718	Correction.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1719	Is that the attitude you're talking about? It's an attitude.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0494par1720	It's not an attitude, it's a correction.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1721	But what you're saying is: "Intuitive," "intuitive," "intuitive..."
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0494par1722	No one says "individual."
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0495par1723	Nobody says, we don't.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1724	What did you say in the election? You said "intuitive."
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0494par1725	That's not the attitude; that's not the attitude.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1726	Now, let's say we give $100, let's take this offer...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0496par1727	Do it, Minister, do it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0494par1728	Mr. Secretary, you can't call this a suicide.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0492par1729	Now, look, let's take this offer, we'll give 100 lira to the 3,600-day pensioner, we'll give 100 lira to the 9000-day pensioner, we'll give 100 lira to the 12,000-day pensioner, and then what do we do? We'll be deepening the lack of attitude.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0497par1730	He doesn't say that, he doesn't say that, he doesn't.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0494par1731	The gun says it's for a month, for a base month.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0498par1732	Tabana, bottom.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1733	Where has justice gone, where has justice gone, the justice spoken of here? That's a very conflicting approach; that's number one. Secondly, sir, there is no word in this law. What if, in the SGK literature and in its system, there is no law if you write the law? If you write the law, I'll understand it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0500par1735	When I say "intuitive," Mr. Secretary, we bring a definition to the law.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1736	The important thing is, you're going to solve the inequality within the system. Well, you won't find it if you're out there looking for an attitude. It's a political statement, you bring in political rhetoric, and you keep looking inside the law. You didn't have to go to all that trouble. Another topic: We've expressed here, friends, social security reform has been achieved, so you don't have to play with the main parameters of this. This is a very radical arrangement that concerns all of our citizens from A (to Z). What did we say? The more bonuses you pay, the more pensions you have to get. If a truly healthy financial structure seeks the management of 75 million, a power will take its risks. The AK PARTY government took those risks and did them right. In fact, as you've all agreed, I'd like to make that very clear to these main parameters as we issue this law. Now, in the pensioner's box -- and as a result, I'm telling you, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group here -- there's no point in making a statement; it's clear.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0501par1739	Yes, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1740	Why?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0502par1741	I mean, the BUG-BUR-BURFURFUR, the SEC-Released Ark...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1742	Monthly binding is happening within the scope of the indicator and coefficient. There's no difference between the year 90 and the year 2000 to 2010. For him, the word "intigation" and "retribution of pensioners" are not on the agenda. In the same way, there's a step system in the BUG-KUR. So if you've retired from the 24th step, the 18th step, the 6th step, you get what you pay for. So there's no point in doing that here or at BUG-KUR.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0503par1743	You've moved the step, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1744	And where did politics interfere with the digit system in BUG-KUR? And now we're correcting the intervention between April 2002 and July, correcting the intervention at the time. So, what we're left with is what we call the old SEC, the arrangement for the 4/A people in reform now. There's injustice in this arrangement, there's lack, there's error. Where do you have it? In the early 2000s, politicians were extremely interested, struggling, and corrupting the system, and even greater inequality has been deepened by risings and risings. What do we do now? We're trying to adapt the issues of the system that really sparked the objection to the system's breakdown in the previous 2000 system to 2008. Today we're giving 75 percent of what our Deputy Prime Minister says to the pensioners before 2000, but I don't know how that came out in the media. Perhaps there is a problem with a complex situation or the perception of the media, which may be made up of these 70 figures, especially since they themselves make these statements as the State Speaker as a result of the Council of Ministers. It's an arrangement to give pensioners a share before the speed of 75 percent development 2000. What's going on here? I'm done giving you two or three examples of what happened. A bonus of 3,600 days and a pensioner from the upper indicator -- look, the lowest day, I'm telling you, it's going to be $118 for our pensioner, who's paid 3,600 days and retired from the highest indicator. There will be a raise on the salary of our pensioner, who paid 5,000 days in bonuses and retired from the top indicator. There will be an increase in our pensioner's salary of $174, which pays 6,000 days and retires from the top indicator. I'll give you the top indicators, which will reflect $212 on the salary of our 7400-day pensioner, who's retired from the top indicator. Those who pay a bonus of 9,000 days and retire from the top indicator are 247... and those who retire from this will have a reflection on their salary by 339 TL. As a result, I've given all of today's talks to our retired SEC pensioners for 20 and under 207,000... look, I've given them to him. You've worked for 3,600 days, and if you've paid from the lowest indicator, you're in no condition here, within this system, but if you've retired from the upper indicator, you'll get $118.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0504par1747	Here, this one needs a base monthly.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1748	There will be a reflection of our pensioner's 20 to 50 euros, a difference between 50 and 100 euros for our 340,000 pensioners, a reflection of 100 to 150 euros for our 475,000 pensioners, an increase in our pensioners' wages between 150 and 250 euros, a increase in our 258,000 pensioners will be between $200,000 and 250 euros, and I say there will be an increase in wages of over 250 euros. Sir, why don't you pay in 2012? I gave you technical reasons. Besides, right now, our 2000...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0505par1750	You said there's a source.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1751	We have a source.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0505par1752	Pay if you have it.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1753	Look, do you know what kind of power we are?
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0506par1754	Make it valid from 2012.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1755	In the government programme, we said, in order to...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0507par1756	It wouldn't have been relevant, Mr. Secretary, but it's against the nature of things.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0499par1757	Sir, look, we're going to pay for this in the years of 11, 12, 13, 14 and 2015. What did we do? In the old figure, we put 557 trillion in our 2012 budget, but as we discussed it in the Council of Ministers, our Prime Minister -- he favours the government, he favours the worker, he favours the worker, he favours the farmer -- let him be paid in 2013. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This is how we do this arrangement, since the decision to pay for it has been issued. As of this arrangement... This is an arrangement in favour of pensioners. I, again, thank all our fellow lawmakers, all the groups, who have contributed to the bill that we have promised, and that we have spoken against his opposition, with his opposition, in favor, and I wish him well. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0508par1761	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. No motions on matter. No questions asked. Mr. Young. Against you, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0509par1765	Vote the item once.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0508par1766	I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. On the whole bill, according to 86, I promise to speak against him. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0510par1769	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, of course, there's no way you can actually be against a raise on pensions. But I've just heard from the Minister here. Yeah, well, can't we do this at least 50 percent for people who get a raise less than 149, who get a raise less than 150, and then take it step-by-step after that? That's something we're finally going to do. What Süleyman Çelebi Bey just said... so he says: "Asgari, let's raise the wages of those who are underpaid by hunger by one percent." Look, at least follow the path of Erbakan. Look, Erbakan...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0511par1772	We've been doing that for years.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0510par1773	Well, for once, you don't know what I'm talking about. In 1996, during REFAH-YOL, pensioners were given the largest increase, a 100 percent increase. That's when I supported that power. I was at the Right Way Party, and you know why I supported it then? I'm that social Democrat party. Too much pressure was put on us not to support Erbakan. I said: "My brother, I support the living and serving state of the secular Republic of Turkey: I vote, I vote, if Turkey does the right work, if Turkey improves, if Turkey manages, my support continues." But you misunderstand February 28th. On February 28th, the Party of the Right Way is the victim. Erbakan...
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0512par1776	Get to the point.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0510par1777	Oh, wait a minute, we're talking! You don't know. I'm a man of those days. On February 28th, Erbakan was already Prime Minister for a year. In the contract with the Right Path Party, Erbakan would resign in June, instead of the Right Path Party. Erbakan was Prime Minister until the 20th of February or 10th of February, after he was given those awards on February 28th. After that, just so that Tansu Chiller would not be given the prime minister's office, some people set up a plot, and scattered the way of righteousness. So let's get this straight. So, someone's coming out of Erbakan, I don't know, the Welfare Party is not a victim; then it was the Right Path Party that was victimized, and then the MPs of the Right Path Party over 40 were, unfortunately, in illegitimate ways, you know, threatened, and so they were driven away with this, and so on. I wish that power had continued. If that power had continued, a really good economic policy would have been followed. So, the pool system was brought in, and some of the money, like you did in your day, didn't go to a number of private banks without interest, everything was collected in the pool, there was a budget system that showed state seriousness, and so, look, pensioners were raised over 100 percent, and those pensioners were very relieved. Look, valuable lawmakers, in fact, we shouldn't be stingy with people who live on the edge of hunger under the pension and minimum wage. Why shouldn't we? Because the money that the government is going to give those people is going to go into the economy. I mean, what do these people do with a pension? Spends it on bread, goes to coffee, goes to a restaurant. What does that do? It stimulates the market. But people who don't know this economy, sir... if you give the money to the people properly, it will bring life to that economy, it will take care of unemployment, so the country will prosper. For example, if I were in charge personally, I mean, there's a number of major traders who are taking that money, at a quadrillion levels, profiting at a trillion. Take from them 60 percent, 70 percent tax, hand them out to that poor wretch, the economy will improve, and there will be no poor people left in this country. It's a human mission. Why, I mean, now, the man who built some factories, this state, you know, he's taking advantage of its resources, he's not paying taxes, I'm not saying it's for everyone -- of course -- he's smuggling taxes, or he's taking advantage of the benefits of power, he's getting incentives, he's taking credits from government banks, he's collecting big capitals. On the other hand, is the poor poor worker given the opportunity? No, he doesn't. If they're known, maybe that worker can go further than that big businessman. I think with this law, especially people who are on the edge of hunger, let's at least raise that level of hunger, let the people in the country relax, and therefore let the economy live. But those who don't know the economy, those who come out here and say some nonsense in public, they don't know the subtlety of it. I'm not against the law, of course, but it could get better, the government's resources are available. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-01sit03spe0513par1785	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the clear vote of Bill 171: ▪ Number of votes used: 247 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya The bill is accepted and legal. Good luck and good luck. Members of parliament, we will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the State of Turkey's International Development Programme, in which the UNDP-Istanbul Special Sector Centre (IICPSD) Foundation (IICPSD) Agreement is in accordance with the Act of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. The commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Common Committee's Decision (1/2011) of the Interim Free Trade Agreement on behalf of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (March 6th 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with oral question motions and draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
