tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Prime Minister has a thesis, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: 3/9/2012 and B. 02. 0. KKG. 0. Article 10/101-610/3624. In addition to our interest, I would like to request that we be sent back under Article 75 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in accordance with Article 75, where we are eligible to participate in the Agreement, which constitutes the working foundations of the International Jut Work Group, which is submitted to your presidency. The bill made by the Foreign Commission has been reinstated to the government. Congressmans, we will now continue talks on the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill, according to the programme. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. In the past year's merger, it was adopted as Article 7 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill. (x) 361 and 362 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Citvets are added to the 36th Unification Charter, dated 10/12/2013. MADDE 8- (1) Added to Law 5018 (I) and (II) public administrations; A) Payments to people who will be bought or employed for a period of no more than a month in the year, provided they are limited to their beelike work, B) Payment to those who have been bought part-time service under the legislation concerned, C) Payments to students who have vocational education in candidates, apprentices and businesses under Article 25 of the Code of Professional Education, dated 5/6/1986 and 3308, ) The payment to temporary personnel of Article 4 (C) of State Officers Act 14/7/1965, under the joke of C) cannot be exceeded by the budgets (01.4) in the economic code (01.4) and cannot be added to the structures containing the economic code, but it cannot be spent on other arrangements of budgets (with the transfers between them of these economic code and the transfers of the first clause of this Law (b). However, due to privatisation practices, the Minister of Finance is authorized to transfer the amount needed to pay for academic jury fees from those who have been terminated under the provision of Article 4 (C) of the Law under the sentence of Article 657 (C). (2) The transports in this Law (T) table can only be obtained by the Council of Ministers' decision on the proposal of the ministry regarding the emergency and mandatory conditions. The public administrations, which are included in Law No. 5018 (I) and (II), can employ permanent workers and temporary workers, dated 4/4/2007 and under Law 5620 (01.3) in the economic codes of their budget (02.3) and will not exceed the funds in the economic codes (02.3). Obligations from collective agreements on these workers may be covered by transfers from the grants in the Finance Ministry's budget for "payment for Private Expenses" and "Responsive Payment" arrangements due to a minimum wage and insurance premium increase. The economic codes mentioned in this joke cannot be paid for in any way (except between the transfers between the economic codes and between the units for these codes), as well as labour fees and/or overwork fees from other arrangements of the budget can't be paid. The restrictions on the transfer of funds in this joke do not apply to TBITAK on the condition that they be transferred from their budget arrangements. In addition to Law (4) 5018 (I) and (II) the expense authorities of public administrations are obliged to do business programmes on the basis of the grant provided by continuous workers and temporary workers in accordance with Law 5620, which they will employ for more work, not to overwork and/or overwork the next year due to extra work and/or overwork. There is no way to transfer funds to pay overtime and/or overwork fees, except for transfers related to the earthquake, fire, flood, landslide, rock falling, overwork due to overwork fees, according to the decisions of the Council of Ministers, which will be carried out due to avalanches and so on. (5) International institutions outside the law, decrees and international agreements under the general budget cannot be registered without the appropriate view of the Finance Ministry's grant, and no payment can be made under the name of membership due to the accession fee, provided by public administrations and special budgetary administrations. (6) The 5th joke sentence is not imposed on international agreements, laws and decrees by the Ministry of Economics and the Undersecretary of Treasury, including the payment of participation in international organisations (including the payment of participation in the Republic of Turkey). (7) The education and recreation facility, run by the central administration of the public administration, is covered by the costs of homes, day care homes, day care centers, sports facilities and so on, and revenues from the operating of these private facilities. In these areas, new employees will be employed for the first time in 2013 to be paid for the return capital and funds with the central management budget. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Doğan Şafak is a Nüğde MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0002par0040	Mr. President, dear MPs, our esteemed citizens watching us on the screen, I salute you all from here. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group in the section of provisions concerning financial control of Article 8 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. Members of parliament, the budget is a basic document and process in public finance, allowing the state's institutional and legal duties to be carried out. In terms of drafting budgets, meeting, ratification, implementation and auditing, the administration plays an important role in establishing relations between legislation and judicial bodies. As the budget preparation in all developed economies began in February and March, the government arranged in Law 5018 and postponed budget calls from May to September, with a decree issued on September 26, 2011. When the budget is this late, there is no time to discuss budgets. The budget bill comes to parliament on October 17th. The state's one-year budget is held in parliament without a debate. The Plan and Budget Commission, the main commission, is forced to discuss the budget of four institutions in one day. Our government is simply completing the condition of the shape, allowing the General Assembly to approve the text. I mean, there's nothing to discuss. The main duty of parliament is to bring the budget from the commission to the General Board in a hurry because the General Assembly does not have the ability to increase spending or reduce revenue. I don't understand what the lawmakers here approve of if they don't have the power to reduce and increase spending, if they can't intervene. I don't believe the House oversees this budget and the House understands it. In 2010, the esteemed lawmakers organized the Law Against Law No. 6085, in accordance with the Law on Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, which we call the Constitutional Constitution. But you found out that this law gave the auditors the authority to write about the gaps of your government, so you immediately took action to remove that authority, and before the House went on vacation, on July 4, 2012, you made it impossible to control Law 6353 and Court. By this law, you have said something to friends who will do the inspection that you will see and identify wrong, but you will not report to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that it is wrong unless the wrong-doer accepts it. Thus, you have acquired the budget rights of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey over the Court's audits. Members of parliament, the law that regulates the emergence, shape, content, implementation, control of financial vehicles is called fiscal law. For this reason, all laws in fiscal law which are based on state revenues and costs include laws on budgets, implementation, auditing, laws establishing state accounting, Court law, final accounting laws, fiscal judiciary, taxation laws, agreements with foreign countries. On the other hand, the Supreme Court of Accounts, which is described as a judicial body, is the chief actor of legal control. The budget's control of legislation requires technical activity, so it cannot be carried out by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey alone. Therefore, in Article 160 of the Constitution, the Court has been tasked with overseeing all costs and revenues of the agencies within the central administration and their goods on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, enforcing the account and transactions of the responsible and binding the audit and judgment of the law. The Court's technical and legal audit also provides the basis for the political control of parliament. All the world's numerals are doing performance inspections. While our Court has been conducting performance inspections since 1996, you have taken the authority of the Court to conduct performance inspections at the end of 2010, we spend wasteful public resources, but we do not allow the Court to inspect it. Despite the obstructions, the Court will issue reports of general fitness in order of Article 43, the external audit general assessment report 68, the action general assessment report 41, the Court's report on fiscal statistics. CIT reports and other reports. In order to ensure the transparency of public spending, the Court will submit the following reports and statistics to the Turkish Grand National Assembly or to relevant public administrations from date on. Such a budget cannot be discussed, audited, and financial control cannot be done in this framework, since my above reports are not submitted to the Court's report, not to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The budget, which lacks control of the Court, is a plastic and pirated budget. This budget must come to Parliament as a temporary budget and then be made after the Court reports are received. The external control of the budgets of the European Union, which we are trying to become a full member of, is also considered the body of the Union. It is the union's financial control body and serves as an account court, and has the authority to oversee the proper and legality of the financial management of the EU budget. The EU is obliged to submit this report, adopted by the majority of votes, to the commission. It is useful to reiterate a known historical fact. Parliaments were born as representatives of taxpayers against executive authorities in wasteful and arbitrary expenditures, and could be created by allowing them to accept their function. The basis of today's representational democracies is the public's struggle against executive authorities in order to have words and decisions to determine public revenues and costs, and to form a public administration that can account for them. Budget rights have never been so abused and condemned in the history of the Republic of Turkey. I'm speaking to fellow AKP MPs: When you put your head on the pillow at night, do you have a good conscience because you approve the spending that has not been passed by the Court?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0003par0048	Yeah, they can sleep.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0002par0049	Congressmans, the 2012 budget deficit target was 21.1 billion, currently 33.5 billion, 12.1 billion deviations. The personnel costs are 5.5 billion, the purchase of goods and services is 4.5 billion, and the capital costs are 5.8 billion. Members of lawmakers are responsible for the efficient, economic, efficient, and legal use of resources, accounting, reporting, and taking necessary measures to ensure that all public resources are available and used. Article 7 of Article 7 of Law No. 6085 is stated in the Court's reports to be submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where this responsibility has been fulfilled. In this budget period, rules such as fiscal control before spending, internal control before spending, judicial audit of the budget, the Court's duty to report were not met. My dear friends, accepting a budget without the Court's reports, confirming the Central Government's Final Accounting Bill in 2011, would mean that we will conduct illegal action. In this budget, there are no solutions to the problem of the 4/C" employees mentioned, no non-assigned teachers, no officers, no tradesmen, no farmers walking barefoot in Anatolia, no university students without tuition in the second course, no audits. Therefore, I say to you, we must accept this budget as a temporary budget until the Court's reports come in on the principle of dissatisfaction of politics, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0004par0054	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, has asked for a statement on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0005par0057	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the 8th Amendment. First of all, good morning, and I pay my respects to all of you. Article 8 regulates provisions related to financial control. In the meantime, of course, we'd like to discuss this in detail. However, we are faced with the government, the precious lawmakers, who are not very good at what they say and what they say, and I'm not sure where they're going with what they're thinking. God forbid the future of Turkey, ruled by a prime minister who sees mountain climbing as a barrier to the separation of forces, trying to justify being a terrorist. I really need to think about how useful it is to discuss the budget here and to discuss the budget in a budget-altering parliament. The Prime Minister is giving a speech at the ceremony of Shebiarus, where the centre of tolerance is remembered. The separation of these forces, he comes in front of you and stands in the way. Dear lawmakers, even our predecessor, Ottomans, had a dissolution of conduct and judgment. So that even the witches were calibrated to the padishah, they were cutting the code, but in Turkey of 2012, there are the justice minister and the justice minister; they comment, they preach, they try to clean things up. Dear lawmakers, the 8th article provides various restrictions on the expenditure of public administrations and private budgetary administrations. According to this, grants related to the permanent temporary workers of public administration can be met with the grant of the Finance Ministry's budget to meet staff costs, but these funds are not used in payment to temporary personnel, which are under Article 4/C of the State Officers' Law. According to this, the primary and permanent tasks required by public services are seen by officers and public officials. Law 657 also makes it possible for temporary jobs to employ contractual and temporary personnel, as well as exceptional circumstances. Of those employed in this way, the most limited rights of public employees are temporary staff employed under Article 4/C. The public now employs about 22,000 4/C. While these personnel are not entitled to annual leave, job security, and social welfare, their salaries are extremely limited and low. Under the decision of the Council of Ministers issued on 4 February 2010, the injustice that exists has been deepened by different practices among 4/C) employees. In this decision, new rights have been given for a section of public officials employed at 4/C status, while the decision of the Council of Ministers has proved unfair to include workers who are unemployed and who will remain unemployed due to privatisation alone. Again, with Law 5620, about 220 thousand temporary workers were given a staff. In accordance with Article 4/B of Section 632 and Article 4/B of Law No. 632 are appointed to 18,000 contract staff officers employed under Law 4954. The absence of 4/C) personnel outside the scope has once again resulted in the victimization of 4/C personnel, which are entitled to be members of public service unions working under contract and therefore should be accepted as public officials. One of these 4/C people also operates at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was an arrangement for the transfer of the 4/C/C/C Parliamentary staff to the 4/C Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey under the interim 9th Amendment of the Turkish Parliamentary Law. According to this arrangement, in the event of hiring staff members of the administrative agency, it is envisioned to be appointed to administrative services staffs, with the success of 4/C (C) people employed at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at 20 per cent of the time. However, the law has limited the recruitment of personnel by implementing the norm staff. As a result, the four-access members of Turkey's Grand National Assembly cannot be appointed to administrative services. It's really not appropriate to employ personnel from the Supreme Assembly of 4/C. The way for this public employment, harmony, justice, is to end this multi-headed structure in the public, where all employees will be given a status that includes job security, social rights, collective rights, and collective union rights and rights to strike, where they will be paid to live as human beings, in fact and in permanence. In this direction, the employment of the staff employed under different status should be immediately removed from the victims of these workers. In this regard, MPs from the National Movement Party have been presented to our friends and our legal proposals to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the 8th article we discussed has the title of the provisions for financial control. Whether it's the government, which is the most integrated organization in the history of the world and mankind, or whether it's a private institution or a private company, in any country, in any regime, there are five basic functions for governance to function successfully for the purposes of that administration: the first is planning, the second is organisation, the third is staffing, the fourth is direction, and the fifth is control. It is the minimum five basic conditions and functions of the success of a governing unit. One of the major sins of the AKP era is it neutralizes and paralyzes the control system in the state. If there is no healthy control in an institution, there is usually inefficiency in the decisions that that institution makes, that institution can face all sorts of irregularities, corruption and errors, there is a lack of efficiency, transparency, wastelessness, and you can't prevent extravagance. We see a significant portion of them in this budget and in the government's practices. Does the government ever think about what the impact of wasteful spending is on so many budget deficits? Why can't you prevent budget resources from being used in some areas? I don't think it's been thought of, and I don't think you want to prevent it, because the real reason for all this waste is because it's in the sense of ruling the mind of the AKP. The AKP government does not see budgets and public resources as a nation's property, a capital. Public Financial Management Act No. 5018 came out on December 10, 2003. We can include the Public Contraction Act. These two laws are typical examples of law enforcement not being a trick, but the real skill being to enforce the law as it should be. It's a law that changes both the structure and management of public financial control, 5018. According to this law, there are two kinds of controls: internal control and external control. Hopefully, in other detailed materials, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you in certain accounts.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0006par0072	Thank you. Pervin Buldan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Iğdır MP, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0007par0075	Thank you. Mr. President, we, the BDP Group, today declare the General Assembly the day of the legislature of our arrested MPs in prisons. [[A picture of Şırnak MP Selma Irmak has been placed in front of the bench by Hajip]] Today, I am Selma Irmak MP of Şırnak. (Applause from BDP rows) This is my court. I was elected MP from Şırnak province in the general elections held on June 12, 2011. I, Selma River, have become an independent candidate from the province of Şırnak, not from the list of parties like you, and have been elected MP as the will of 46,278 people who voted preferentially. As the will of 46,278 people, I am not in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but in Diyarbakır E-type Closed Prison. On the website of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Selma River, the address was written on the website of the lower level, Banko No. 1, but this address is wrong. My address is Diyarbakir E-type Closed Prison. On April 18, 2009, I was taken into custody and arrested. I've been held hostage in prison for two years and eight months. I'm saying it's bad because there's no crime in my file that I should be arrested for. I'm not a murderer, I'm not a thief, I'm not corrupting the tender, I've committed no shameful crimes. There's a reason you're being held hostage, which is that I'm Kurdish, become a woman, express my thoughts, and defend my people's struggle for freedom and equality. I can't give speeches in the General Assembly like you; I can't give legal proposals, research proposals, question motions. I have some research proposals that I've submitted through our group presidents, that's all. So, what am I doing in Diyarbakır Prison, where I'm being held hostage? Let me simply share: I watch you, my group, my group, the struggle for freedom and equality and, of course, the honorable resistance of the people of Şırnak. From time to time, I'm amazed at the fights in the General Assembly. Sometimes I'm a boy from Şırnak, for example, and I feel the pain of going to school with the children of my people whose language was banned. Sometimes I see myself with the women from Şırnak, standing up on their feet in the rally grounds, in the march, in the front rows, with the Şırnak women. Sometimes I get emotional, I get sad, like when the funerals come, and when the young saplings of this geography are buried, my heart is torn as I watch the intervention in the funerals, the gas bombs, the compressed waters. And the same heart was my son, and when my son died, you killed my country. And as a soldier listened to his mother, it broke my heart, and my heart was broken. With all that, there are moments when you can't stop your tears from flooding. The fire falls into your heart, a burning fire burns your body. That fire fell on December 28th in my heart, in my body, in my tiny ward. As soon as the bombs were dropped on what you call Klaban (Nuludere), as you call it, Roboski, 34 civilians were gathered by Roboski people who had been bombed for an hour, while I watched the cries of mothers, the mourning and the despair of fire, and I saw that mankind had died as well. Sadly, a pain in our painful history was added to Roboski. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, sometimes I try to share my feelings, my thoughts with the public, with the letters I've written. Of course, I don't know how well you people know about these letters I've written. For example, the last letter I wrote was about violence against AKP Ağrı MP Fatma Salman. In my letter, I send my sincerest wishes to dear Fatma. Dear Fatma should know that we are with you in the heart of all women. Violence against women is a non-party, ideologic situation. And we've learned from experience as women that we can't overcome our problems without an organized struggle, strong female solidarity. The violence against Fatma was applied to all of us. The man - made human being, who has been transformed by society's teaching of sexism, must reject this teaching. He must succeed in returning to his essence, the feminine state of life. I said to the people of Pain, to their brave women as high as Ararat, to all women who were victims of violence, we send our greetings and love. Yes, dear lawmakers, even though I am not physically among you, I want you to know that I am with you spiritually, but that my heart has struck with the people of Şırnak. Dear Selma River, we love you too. Even if you're not with us physically, we know you're with us spiritually, your heart, your heart, the people who voted for you, the people who chose you. We salute you and all the prisoners. We express that you will be free as soon as possible, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you will participate in legislature activities in the General Assembly; that you will be a partner in the meetings with the Şırnak people, their children, their women, in the squares; that you will be with them in the fight for freedom and equality; that we wish you with all our heart and heart. We salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0008par0087	Yes, thank you. Fuat Karakuk is a member of the Church who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0009par0089	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 8 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill. On this occasion, I salute our beloved nation and your grand delegation. Mr. President, under the leadership of our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, at a time when our country's political and economic interests were in great difficulty, the EC PARTI is a party that has managed to sign a number of revolutionary principles to our country, from domestic policy to foreign policy, from education, from law, from power to security, from electricity to agriculture, from economy to social life, from social democracy to human rights, despite all the obstacles it has been exposed to. As a person who performed his duties as Chief Medical Officer of the Church State Hospital before he became a MP, the entourage has been a hundred and eighty times better than the brain, a hundred and eighty times more beautiful. I want to brief you on the work done in the field of health. During our rule, 2,021 new health facilities have been built, including 554 (a hospital), 1,467 (a first-level health institution). State hospitals and SEC hospitals were merged under one roof. All our citizens from the pension fund, insured and BUG-KUR have been provided with the use of all hospitals. Hostages that were common in past tenses have been removed from the hospital. The number of public health care clinics increased by 400 per cent, and our citizens were freed from examination queues. The practice of family medicine has been implemented. Our citizens were allowed to make a hospital appointment by phone or online. Diseases such as measles, malaria, have been resetted from our country's agenda. There was a technological revolution in health by raising the number of MRIs 18 in 2002 to 266, the number of CTs 120 to 410, and the number of dialysis devices 1,510 to 4.445. Hospital rooms in the ward view have been converted into a modern hospital room. The number of rooms with bathrooms and toilets increased by 500 percent. Health care was sent to the public with 98 mobile health units. The number of ambulances with 618 in 2002 has been increased to 2,841, while the number of emergency stations has been increased to 1,710. The 224 palette ambulance, which we could only see in the movies before, was offered to our people to serve in the winter in the snow. 19 helicopters, 4 aircraft ambulances, 4 marine ambulances, 52 motorcycle emergency response teams have been assigned to the service of our beloved citizens by our power. It was a dream, it came true. In our 81 counties, 4,909 trained medical staff were raised and the largest medical rescue team in Europe was formed. Taking medicine has been removed from suffering; there have been discounts that have reached 80 per cent of drug prices, provided that everyone can take medicine from the pharmacy they want. 124 cancer screening centers have been opened in 81 counties to fight cancer that is the disease of the century. Everyone, including our citizens with no social security, has been insured. Everyone who was 18 years old was granted free health care. The welfare rights of the poor have been brought to the same level as the other insurance holders. Public hospital units have been established to improve the quality of the service using more efficient and efficient resources. Smoking indoors to protect non-smokers like myself and create a smokeless airspace was prohibited by law, thus making it world-first in the anti-smoking program. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are not only counting investments made by the AK PARTY authorities, but the numbers are there. You don't listen to a word you say. The AK PARTY was not a party that comforted our citizens with idle talk, but it did what it promised in the party program and in the squares. He does not see enough of the services that have been done so far, that he is more powerful and respected in our country's region and in the world, that he is among the ten largest economies in the world, that he will address our chronic problems with more decisive steps towards the future, that he will strengthen our democracy, that our nation's welfare and happiness will continue to work day and night. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, when I put an end to my words, I wish that the budget of 2013 would be a blessing for our country and our dear nation, and that I would like to thank all those who have worked so hard to prepare our budget, especially our Prime Minister and all of our ministers, and to pay tribute to our beloved nation and your grand delegation. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause in CHP rows!]
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0010par0106	Thank you. Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0011par0109	Mr. President, I'm going to make today's speeches on behalf of our Gulser Yıldırım MP in Mardin Prison. [[A picture of Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım has been placed in front of the bench by the Minister.]] I was detained and arrested as of February 16th, along with the ACK operation in February 2010. I've been in Mardin Prison for over two years. I think it's very important that our BDP Group today, especially our arrested MPs, has found a way to express our voice on this stand. Because we are elected MPs by the will of the people. No matter where we are, it's not important for us; it's important that our people give us the will. We will fulfill our promise to our people in the best possible way, to use that will in every field we are in. Dear lawmakers, as long as I'm in prison, I actually know a lot more about the problems in prison. Now, this is a little bit of... you know tomorrow is December 19th and the anniversary of an operation called Return to Life, the anniversary of the massacre. Thus, as inmates of the prison, we are well aware of what prison conditions are really like. Especially in a country where people who fight for democracy, human rights and freedoms are constantly under pressure of justice, our demands are actually facing pressure in every area we are. So the people in prison have a way of protesting them, which is hunger strikes. We also launched a hunger strike on September 12, 2012, you know, in Turkey, on lifting the ban on the main language, providing health, security and freedom conditions for Mr. Abdullah Ocalan. Our hunger strike lasted sixty-eight days, and fortunately, it ended without killings, but our demands are still standing. But that didn't happen during the operation in 2000, December 19th. In that period, prisoners and prisoners who criticised the F-type transition system began hunger strikes and later turned these hunger strikes into death fasts, revolutionaries, but they intervened. Apparently, the hunger strike started on October 20th, and the intervention was developed on December 19th. And then we found out that this operation had nothing to do with the hunger strike. There is talk of a document called the Tufan document, the plan. According to this plan, the government -- the government of the return -- has already planned to intervene in prisons on October 11th. The start date of the hunger strike was October 20th, before the transition to type F, where we have no control in the prisons, where we will show the power of the state. The operation was prepared, and the hunger strikes were just an excuse. Besides, on December 12th, the Minister of Justice says: "We stop the transition to F types, delay them." But on December 19th, they intervene, and 30 people, two soldiers, 30 people lost their lives. Now, we're still waiting for the truth of this operation to be revealed. Under the name Return to Life... then more people would die in the fasts of death if we didn't intervene. We're showing you once again how false the approach to Turkey's public is that it's trying to trick the people, in fact trying to put us to sleep, history is showing us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, but we'd like to point out that we're still suffering from the trauma of December 19th. Unless Turkey investigates the December 19th prison operation, the massacre, and judges the responsible, human rights are not really possible in Turkey. Look, we left Human Rights Week behind. Look at all the activities held at Human Rights Week, all of which are about rights violations of almost F-type prisons. F-types are causing serious trauma in Turkey, and F-types have become a torture facility. We know that what is described as "zero tolerances to torture" is not real, especially as those living in prison, we know that much better than those who have to live in a room. From here, from prison, from Mardin Prison, we once again warn the government: it is the responsibility of this government to reveal the truth about F-type prisons, especially those responsible for December 19th. If people are really talking about human rights, democracy, torture, zero tolerance, the account of December 19 should be asked, Turkey's report card will always be weak unless the account is asked. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0012par0121	Thank you. There will be a ten-minute question-answer procedure. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0013par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. How much compensation did the government pay for Operation Return to Life, and were these civil servants injured? If not, do you intend to press charges of misconduct against those who have not been injured? Besides, doesn't that mean waste and waste of public resources? Two, what is the number of lawsuits filed against citizens by the Prime Minister? What's the number of lawsuits filed against the Prime Minister by the citizen? What is the amount of compensation the Prime Minister received, and what is the citizen's prison sentence? How much is the compensation for the lawsuits filed by the citizen against the Prime Minister? Were these damages paid from the state budget, or were they paid from the Prime Minister's personal money?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0014par0127	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0015par0128	Mr. Secretary, when are you going to make a statement about 2/B? Citizens say it's too late now. Are you going to make a payment on this for the money the citizens will pay? Your installment must cover the harvest period. Notice, in recent days, we've been giving loans to the newspapers, 2/B. Can't the government do that by making payments, at a certain rate, by taking a small amount of difference? My second question is the Constitutional Court -- you know -- has cancelled, especially for the 29-year lease of the village. Are you going to return the rent on this matter to the peasant? What's your Ministry's opinion on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0016par0131	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir... no. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0017par0134	Mr. President, thank you. My question to the Finance Minister is: After retiring, the taxpayers' pensions are cut off from the workers' pensions at a tax-paying workplace. This makes it look like you can't do business. Or you can do your pension. Or you can go outside the register. Will our Minister of Finance be able to fix this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0018par0137	Thank you. Mr. Janisari... no. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0019par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're giving the yacht, the cotras, cheap diesel without the OTV, the VAT. Why are you holding the green diesel you promised in the 2002 elections from the Turkish peasant? If you say the economy is getting better, the producers ask: "We can't pay the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans today. We can't get food and straw for our animal. Why are you keeping cheap diesel from us? Would you consider giving the owners of green diesel and animal enterprises two years without paying, zero interest bait and hay loans in order to save us today's difficult conditions? On behalf of the voters who voted for you, it was a dream, it was a reality.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0020par0144	Thank you. Mr. Oz... no. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0021par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, you know, the Prime Minister had quite a run-in with the State yesterday. That's because they're building a public-private partnership and their hospitals are District 13th. It was her apartment cancelling. Mr. Labour Minister said it's bad for the citizens and the budget. While you see a lot of 3 per cent of the money to be paid to hospitals with this public private partnership, Erzurum has, for example, cost the 1,200-bed area hospital to about 193 million when the state is making its own hospital, and a Kayseri will have 137 million a year's rent. That's one. Second of all, they praise health here. Last night, I called a hospital hospital to find room for a patient in a car accident for three hours. Finally, thanks to my doctor friends, they put a bed next to the bed and put a patient to bed. There's a big problem with the ICUs, too. Health, it's not like that. A third question: Erzincan is in debt to nearly 2 trillion electric debt, while Erzincanspor has 60 lira in electric debt. The power's going out. Other private companies owe a lot of money but Erzincanspor is cut for $60...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0022par0153	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0023par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the first week of July, the 2012 KPSS exam and the Finance Ministry received 156 Treasury attorneys. Despite the fact that they submitted their papers in October, security investigations have not been cited as grounds for this person's security investigations, and they have not yet been assigned to the post. Many applications to the Ministry have failed. When will 156 of our friends, who have applied for this 156 Treasury Attorney, begin their work? Why has it been dragging around for four or five months? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0024par0157	Thank you. Your time is five minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0025par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. I can't answer Mr. Tanal. We don't have this data. Some of them, of course, have to be collected from the Prime Minister, which requires a lot of statistics. As for Mr. Aslanoglu's question -- I've expressed it yesterday -- we'll start sales as of January. Because we've considered objections to prices that have been determined so far. There has been a very important study on how the prices are consistent, especially from the location, from the neighborhood to the street. Because, really, we see it as a problem solver, at least we see the income foot as secondary. So, hopefully, we'll start in January. We'll make the payments, of course. You know, there's a down payment on the down payment, over 70 percent, so 100 liras will be paid for 70 liras, but if it's paid in advance, it'll go down to 56 liras. No, if you want to be paid in installments, you can make a three-year instalment in the area, and four-year instalments outside the mujavir area. So we're going to show all sorts of ease in that regard. Let friends take a look at the matter, of course, when the village merchandising is returned to the villagers, and I'm not very specific, but of course, the meadows are for our peasants there, for our farmers. Let the boys work, and I'll come back to you later.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0026par0163	Mr. Secretary, it's been rented out for twenty-nine years, the Constitutional Court has cancelled, and it needs to be extradited.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0025par0164	Okay, so we'll just go with the court order. After he retired, the issue of cuts came up yesterday. Now, dear friends, of course, this was implemented by social security reform in 2008. Here's the point: once you've retired, if you start working again, there's a very small cut. This, in fact, should be viewed as a reflection of early retirement in Turkey as a problem. Currently, we have 10.2 million pensioners in Turkey, which is 10,200,000, which is the average age of 44 of our pensioners. People 48 years old and 49 years old can retire in Turkey without a pension system in any country in the world now under 60. So this one has problems, this system has problems. I mean, these are debatable issues. As for cheap diesel, our governments have supported our $3.8 billion farmer since 2004. There is about 12 per cent of the cost of diesel. If possible, of course, our farmer can be more supportive. Now, about the other issues, especially about the hay credits: we're giving our Department of Agriculture nine billion dollars of direct grants to our farmers. And in addition to that, we also provide around $4 billion in credit support. They use these loans for livestock, for other areas. If it's for hay, our Department of Agriculture will do a study on it, and we can, of course, provide this loan subsidies within that budget. But, like I said, it's not my area, I can't make a commitment to that. The purpose of public-private hospitals is to take advantage of the dynamics of the private sector very quickly, perhaps ten years later, to move hospitals to the front, and thus... Under these tenders, it's being held in a competitive environment. So you have to look at it in that frame. Our goal is to provide better service to our nation, to bring this service earlier. I don't quite understand the question about Erzincan City Hall. And the treasure lawyers, of course, we'd like to see them begin their mission as soon as possible. I'll talk to my friends, where the trouble is, what size, we'll speed it up. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0027par0173	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question-answer process is complete. There are two motions on matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of arrival, and then I'll process them according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 8th Amendment bill of 361 rows in sight. We propose and propose that the following sentence be added at the end of the fourth joke of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Kazım Kurt Izzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli Bült Kuşoğlu No subcontractorial service can be bought in public institutions and institutions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adding to the provisions of the Central Management Budget Bill on Financial Control; 8 / 1 Article 2. At the end of his joke, I propose and provide that the Ministry of Finance shall be given a detailed notification of the rental vehicle. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Mahmut Tanal Mustafa Serdar Soydan Engin Özkoç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0028par0193	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0027par0194	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0029par0195	Which one? The last read or the first?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0027par0196	Second motion, yes.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0029par0197	The second motion, Mr. Yüksel, wasn't it you who said that we should know? Why don't you join us? We're making you a list, we're doing you a favor.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0027par0198	Mr. Aslanoglu, please. Members of parliament, the amendment proposals of Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. I am reading the grounds for the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0030par0200	The explanation was requested, Mr. President, so don't misunderstand.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0031par0201	Minister, we're doing you a favor.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0027par0202	Your Honor, do you agree? I'll ask you again.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0032par0203	Mr. President, there's only been one practice with a financial lease so far, and it's the only tool for the Ministry of National Defense abroad. So, since it's not in practice at the moment, we don't see fit, we don't see fit, we don't agree.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0027par0204	Thank you. Renting a vehicle via financial rental is beyond the Ministry's knowledge and control. Despite its over 90 thousand years, it has been intended to include a frame and knowledge of the disease of gaining a vehicle that still cannot be contained. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 8th edition of the 361 Numbered Legislature. We propose and propose that the following sentence be added at the end of the fourth joke of the clause. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends No subcontractor service is purchased in public institutions and institutions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0033par0215	Mr. Yüksel, weren't you against the subcontractor?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0034par0216	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0033par0217	Mr. Yüksel, weren't you against it?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0035par0218	Government?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0036par0219	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0037par0220	I think the Commission is under pressure.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0035par0221	I'm having it read. The subcontractorial service, which could also be called the slave system of the 21st century, was intended to be lifted within the framework of the social state. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Investment Expenses, Mahalistic Administrations and Fund-related Sentences A project can't be spent on any project except on additional investment tables for the MADDE 9- (1) 2013 Investment Programme. The project could not have been less than 10 per cent of the project's investment costs, including the development of the project's project and the project's project's project (except for years of projects that have been paid collectively (except for dams and HES projects with power over 500 MW, Gebze-Haydarpaşa, Sirkeci-National Banliyö Line, and the project's construction project, which will be carried out by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime, Maritime and Telecommunications, and other railway construction projects). Projects for the underlying project and work can be revised by implementing the 2013 Year Programme, Co-ordinating and Tracking Decision basis and primarily staying within the investment funds of institutions. (2) The implementation of the 2013 Program on the implementation, Coordination and Surveillance of the annual projects of public administrations under central management, which have been given funds in the investment programme collectively, and on the basis of the detailed programmes of computer software and equipment projects and sub-spent pens. (3) Adding funds for investment projects in the budgets of the central administration of public administrations, and transfers are linked to the investment programme according to the procedure and basis of the 2013 Programme, Co-ordination and Tracking Decision. (4) Applying, Co-ordinating and Following the 2013 Investment Programme for mandatory changes to the additional investment table over the year is followed by procedures in the Law of the Year of 2013. On the matter, it is Osman Captain, Antalya MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0038par0236	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the investment expenditures on the 9th article of the central management budget in 2013. I salute you all. My dear friends, as in many developing countries, investments in the development of our country, especially fixed capital investments, are very important. Because fixed capital investments mean production, means business, means employment, means increase in income, means technology, capital buildup. It is estimated that fixed capital investments will rise to $319 billion in 2012 and $358 billion in 2013, and the GDP will reach 23 per cent in 2013. This framework envisions the implementation of 81 per cent of fixed capital investments by the private sector. My dear friends, surely the main factor in our country's growth and development is investment. Investments are also funded by savings. In Turkey, domestic savings sank during the AKP period because our people, let alone saving, are already able to live on hard or debt. The number of executive files in the AKP era increased from 9,400,000 to 20,70,000. In the 2011 survey of the income and living conditions of the TÜİKbook, 80 per cent of our people use old furniture, and 86 per cent can't even take a week off from home. My dear friends, despite everything, Turkey, which has high economic potential, has performed an important performance in the last decade. Whether it's the Kemal Dervis program, or the Ali Babacan program, there's been a development in the economy once in the last ten years, but that's not enough, because it's not enough because in 2002, when the United Nations ranked human development, our country was ranked as number 92 in 2011, it's a pity that we've gotten worse, let alone better in the last decade. For example, the average percentage of OECD education spending is 6.2 per cent, while only 4.2 per cent is in our country. In this case, it is unfortunate that we are the world's 17th largest economy, the 6th largest economy of Europe. Dear lawmakers, we need to prioritize investments that reduce energy dependence on the outside, evaluate our borax and other precious mineral potentials. We need to focus more on technology, RD, education, health, agriculture and tourism investments. Bureaucracy and procedures for domestic and foreign investors must be minimized. Regional development projects such as GAP, DAP, KOP and DOKAP should be earmarked for direct capital investments that will lead to development, creating jobs. The quality of education must be improved, and its brain power from Turkey must be prevented from going to other countries. My dear friends, one of the most important issues in Turkey that bends the back of both investors and producers, and consumers, is that of course, we use the world's most expensive gas. The first thing to do in Turkey is to cheapen gasoline. Turkey imports raw oil, this crude oil is processed to 33 per cent of diesel, 20 per cent fuel, and 12 per cent fuel oil. The consumption of gasoline is seven times the amount of gas. Therefore, we can't even consume half the fuel produced in Turkey. In 2012, we exported 2.5 million tons of gasoline abroad at 143 cents per liter. Instead of exporting the gas for 143 cents, let's sell the gas for $4.60 instead of the pump price, so let's reduce the gas to $1.60, increase the demand for gas, increase the government's tax revenue, and let the citizen use gas cheaply. The longer the diesel consumption goes into the gas, the less raw oil buys and less foreign trade deficits. Dear lawmakers, we are the world's 2nd place after China in construction. We're celebrating our construction companies. What should they do? They go abroad instead of wrongly competing with the TOKI. TOKI must first build and finish the student dorms of ÜRTKUR, which our 168 universities need, as soon as a year-and-a-half, and save our students from being miserable in the winter. Dear friends, Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar says that 50-55 million liras have been defrauded, and we have a responsibility. Mr. Secretary, resign if you have one, don't say anything. If he's not resigning, the Minister must be dismissed by the Prime Minister. Mr. President, I'd like to finally say that in Turkey, one of the main cities in terms of investments should be Antalya. As I recently stated from this bench, Antalya is the province where 11 million tourists come in a year, which is the revenue of $7 billion in tourism. Antalya, Paris, London, New York, is the fourth most tourist attraction in the world and the third city in Europe. Antalya is the first province in Turkey in exporting vegetables and fruit; the sixth in population is the fifth province in socioeconomic development. Antalya is a province of 81, where our people come and settle. Antalya is the province that gives the state more than it takes from the state. Antalya is the province where every year floods, floods, hails, frosts, greenhouses flood, vegetables rot, the hands of our farmers stay on their side. Projects such as the GAP should also be included in BAP, the Western Mediterranean Project, or the AP, the Antalya Project. We want to expand the existing airport or build a new airport in Antalya. We want an airport in one of our western counties. We want the Antalya freeways finished first. We want a tunnel to the rod Beli. We want natural gas spread to all our counties in a way that will be used in tourism and greenhousery. We'd like to redesign the wholesale state law. We want to keep the tourism in the dark, and we want the new city law to be assessed in this respect. We want our tomatoes, our peppers, our eggplants, our oranges, our lemons, our grapefruits, our pomegranates, and our apple goods to be paid for. We want export continuity, and we want producers to get a cut of export bonuses. The railway project to Antalya is not in the 2013 budget. However, Mr. Minister Bali Yıldırım said in Paris: "The fast train to Antalya will reach the EXPO 2016." The 2013 Investment Programme was not adopted. We're very disappointed. At this rate, neither train will catch up to 2016, nor will train slow, either through Antalya (Iconia) nor through Eskişehir (Eskişehir). Mr. Secretary, you've both been privatizing and putting people in debt, and you're seeing a lot of these investments in Antalya? Doesn't Antalya deserve these investments? An investment in Antalya... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't you know it's an investment in Turkey? I wish you all the best in the budget.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0039par0255	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0040par0258	Mr. President, dear friends, I will speak on behalf of a fellow officer today who is not at his place in the House, who has taken over the prison bunks in his place, unfairly. [[A picture of Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Ayhan (Abraham Ayhan) was placed in front of the bench by Hajip]] My name is Ibrahim Ayhan. I'm a Congressman of the Peace and Democracy Party. I was born in Siverek, 69. I became an agricultural engineer at the University of the Hundred Years. Then, between '97 and '07, I was president of the Urban Development-SEN Department. I was a film teacher. In the meantime, I was banished to Kastamon. Later, I was also a candidate for Urbania in 2007, saying, "Why did you nominate those who were in prison?" A thousand and a half votes have been seized by the state and the protection system, and with just a thousand or so votes, we've been stripped of our parliamentary power. If I wasn't a congressman, if I hadn't been elected, I'd be out there right now, because in my case, you'd have to be very ignorant of the law to call the evidence. I've been sent to Urbana Prison. 13 of them died in the fire over the riot of the inmate children who were protesting the inconsequential conditions there. One night, as an elected MP, I was exiled to Adana Prison before I had a chance to wear our slippers -- if necessary. I've had two heart infarctions in Adana Prison. With the zeal of our fellow MPs, I was sent to Diyarbakır Prison under public pressure. I'm speaking to you now from the prison of Diyarbakır. I want to tell you about a Urban anecdote. We're always being blamed. The smallest slip, the smallest inconvenience, is being raised into a mountain shape. No one will open their mouth and say anything about this self-righteous, oppressive, cruel nature of the state. I'd like to share with you an anecdote about this: one of the Urbans has fallen ill and brought it to Ankara because there is not enough health in Urbana. A woman professor came to the bed of Urbana while she was with her assistants, summing up the clinical painting to her assistants. See, here we are, pale, wheezing, eyes down, eyes down, avurts down, discoloration, skin shrinks, etc. He looked at the teacher, who had barely opened his eyes, and he said, "You know, he's Turkan Soray." Now, the state is not the most beautiful Turkan Soray on our land. While those who oppose us are always bringing up the smallest details they find in this right-seeking struggle, the ones they use to discredit, they return to the state and say nothing of the oppressive, oppressive, non-controversial aspect of the state. We're in a freak. The parliamentary autonomy rights are known to us as a result of the sensitive approach of the entire Assembly, while the mandate of parliament is blocked by various grounds. He's trying to explain to the judges of this country what this law should serve in an unprecedented manner in the history of the world law, in the case of the arrested MPs, in the condition of the prisoners. Yet we, as the chosen will of a people, are still being held in prisons as their representatives. We're not here alone. All of BDP's elected citizens who operate in the field of civil politics -- particularly local-based -- and all of the elements that are actively involved -- are being placed in prisons under the name ▪KCK (e.g..................). The government had a similar approach: the fight against the weapon was to negotiate with its political extensions. As in all areas of life, they understood that from their buffer; they fight civil politics, they prefer to negotiate with armed elements. No matter how peaceful, civilian politics, who take responsibility, they put them all in prison. Finally, I'd like to talk about a tragic NG trial scandal that's going to be a subject to films in the future. As you know, the BDP Academy of Politics has been rested for many years, and these rests have been developed. So this is a lot of things from quantum physics, from the Big Bang, from the theory of evolution to the current philosophical concepts. The prosecutor put it in the indictment as it was, but the judge of this court couldn't bear to hear it. Philosophy -- it's been a long time -- was first downloaded into an elective position, then removed from there. ▪ Lawmakers in court could not bear to listen to a philosophical text when the philosophy -- a discipline that answers how to answer questions in terms of understanding life -- was removed from schools. That's not what they're looking for. 50 pages later, the judge listened to a four-page hearing of counsel's objections and said, "This is too much for me." He said, "The trial is off." Now, on behalf of all my fellow trustees in captivity, these judgments, these irregularities, these atrocities, they will not only come to you; they will come to you, your shepherds, your bowl-lickers, your sons. If you can't go out in public, if you're going to be the subject of movies, novels, you're going to be replaced as a monkey, which is a profit if you come back from the damage. I salute all my fellow MPs and fellow lawmakers, who have a certain sensitivity to the solidarity of the prisoners. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you a peaceful, peaceful Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0041par0271	Thank you. On the matter, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on behalf of him.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0042par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised to present the views of the National Party of Action on Article 9 of the article entitled "Investment of the Central Government budget" in 2013, Article 9 of the Article "Constructions Against Financial Administrations and Funds" in the title "Investigation" in 2013. There are four issues: one of which is that there is no extracurricular spending; the second of which is the basics for collective funding in the central management budget; third of which, the central management budget is the transfer of funds for investment projects, additions, turnsovers; and the fourth of which determines the changes in investment projects. Mr. Secretary, when you announced the 2013 budget, you announced your goals below the current forecast of 2012. When you look at its share of the total budget spending, it also falls from 9 to 8. What does that tell us? The AKP has made it clear that its government is not taking a serious stance on investment spending this year, and we see that. However, you find 50 reasons, but no reason is realistic. Even Osman can't convince anyone of that. In the past year, the public was negative for fixed capital investment goals, real or fixed prices, including 2012. The State Department's explanation of this is that the initial grants are always low. It's not possible, you can't do the budget. It means I'm going to change it later. You, as a public, can't invest in lack of funds. You're trying to get the private sector into this area, but what does the private sector get into that that's not commercial? He's entering the area. Savings are already inadequate. Where did the national income rate of the savings of the private sector in your power come from? From 24 per cent to 12 per cent. This appears very clearly and clearly in the documents you've made here, the ones you've explained. Look, there's an outside source entrance. As of the first ten months, you're looking at the balance of current transactions, 57 billion dollars in funding. You're looking at 50 billion dollars in the first ten months. You're keeping it as a reserve this year because it comes with an advantage, but not last year. But you hand the Prime Minister the paper and make him read it. What do you say, Mr. Prime Minister? Our reservations have increased, you say. Why wouldn't he use it if he could use it, give it to the Central Bank? Because the privates are in debt, he's bringing in the source. We need to get this straight in here, you know? Has the private sector investment increased this year? It didn't. They're giving it to the Federal Reserve. I just made a statement. The Prime Minister has to accept that he doesn't understand as much as he understands, not as he understands, not as he understands, not as he understands, not as he understands, but as he doesn't understands. At the same amount of external source entry, one growth is 8.5 percent; this year it's 2.5 percent. Now, when you look at it, it's possible to see that it doesn't make sense. The percentage of capital costs is 2.2 per cent of national income in 2002; what in 2012? 2.4 of them. What's changed? You're looking at the interest-free budget rate of capital costs, 11 per cent in 2002, 9.3% in 2012. What part of this is healing if you love your God? You're talking about the labour market. When it falls, you rejoice; yesterday it rose again, and you become troubled. And we're a little bit out of 2002 at the time, and you start comparing it to Europe, but you don't show the bases right. Is the participation rate in the workforce in the West 50 percent as we do? About 70 percent. Economic writers who sit in newspapers and do their books clearly say that when you calculate it their way, your unemployment becomes 30 percent. You know this, but you don't tell the truth. He's the one who's troubled. And I'm going to mention this Middle-Time Program again today. Mr. Secretary, that one. You've changed everything, and on October 9th, you're a month late again. Middle-term Program, Central-term Financial Plan, Office for Investment Programme Preparations -- Ministry of Development -- calling for Budget and supplemental Budget Prepping Guide. If you love your God, who takes the same day and prepares it and brings it to you? Yes, you have with you the deputy, from Denizli. Did they all come from the university after October 9th, when they came in contact with each other? Haven't you shown them targets before? Why are you making fun of people? You might say that in the world the conjunctive is critical, we can't keep up with it, we're not sure what to do. Yeah, well, let's get this out late so the country's reputation will be surprised tomorrow. Let's not make them say that. I'll even afford it as a member of an opposition party. But you don't... everyone knows that, so what are you hiding? How many times do we have to tell you? Now, all state offices are piling up from Asia Minor to you, you're finishing up, and we're going to make a budget based on them on October 9th. How is that logical if you love your God? We all know the procedure of this, the bureaucrats there know it, and so do the planners, and so do the others. The audience in Asia Minor is probably laughing at all of us now as I say so. Now, it's an agency where the IRS managers stand up. I believe there was something about the fees you were asked yesterday. You said: "No one's lost." Okay, no one's lost. But you're paying the same salary, the 100,000th with the guys you've taken from the first thousand candidates in the KPSS or the college entrance exam. After that, won't the IRS managers rebel? What have they done in the history of the Republic for the first time? They rebelled. They came in front of your Ministry last week... where? In Istanbul. What does that mean, Mr. Secretary? It means you can't handle the Ministry. I'm being clear, and I know you're sincere, so I'm telling you. Perhaps you may find it a little more difficult to grasp what's going on in Turkey because you're out breathing more air. What does that mean for everyone from Turkish bureaucracy to do in a very good way? He knows. Now, here's another thing: you're not informing the Prime Minister properly. There's a statement of opinion about what the villagers don't know about Fatih. This is my deputy, the former President of the Youth Corps of the MP, the Deputy Marine. I say every time I'm on TV in Denizli, which friends of theirs didn't know about Fatiha during that period? I just spoke to Jafar Birturk. He said: "Ya, why are we under such suspicion? Let's not be on the same side today, please -- I'm telling you this because you speak more reasonable -- go and tell the Prime Minister, don't slander anyone, don't accuse anyone like that." It's shameful, it's a sin, it's a sin. Is that a thing to talk about, is that a thing to say? You say "hasan" as an individual, and you say "hüseyin" as a person. Mr. President, our deputy is the same... how can you say such a thing to the international community? You also have a duty to clearly, honestly, publicly warn the public about all of this. It may have come out of your mouth, come on, it's not right, we can't accept it, but you have to say it somehow.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0043par0290	He cries when it suits him, slanders when it doesn't suit him.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0042par0291	Now, the Economic Social Council... during the referendum, you've become a screamer. How many times have you collected the Economic Social Council after the Constitution referendum? Let us know what they told you. No one brought us anything about it. Look, the whole crisis has come into the world, we've established a board, we've explained so much, but we haven't talked about the world crisis outside of a five-minute agenda here. But you're talking about the crisis everywhere outside the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. But you have to pay attention to these investments, Mr. Secretary; you've skipped these investments, you've cut down on these investments. I wanted to express it. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0044par0294	Thank you. Alim Ik, MP of Kütahya, who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0045par0296	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the 9th amendment to investment spending of the central management budget in 2013. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, you've listened, and yesterday we heard from a valued AKP MP that the budget for 2013 is the investment year budget and that there is a budget that will enable new jobs. I wish this congressman had looked at the chart on page 37 of the 361 which was distributed to us, but he would not have read the text given to him in the 2013 Program, where the investments fell from there to 9.3 percent in the 2012 budget. Thus, this budget is an investment budget. Valuable lawmakers, the 2013 budget, unfortunately, is no more than a budget in which pensioners, civil servants, workers, farmers, farmers, investors, but only the financial sector, as it has been, has added money, wealth to its wealth by borrowing 10 units, as it has been, and foreign investors have earned a significant amount of interest in a year. So it's really sad to claim that this is an investment budget, and it's a very sad subject for a congressman. In particular, in this case, what the government is going to do, as it has done for ten years, is nothing more than the sale of republican historical investments made before the AKP era. In fact, as in bridges and highways that were sold for $5.7 billion yesterday, the process of bidding is still under way, as in the sale of the Seyitömer thermal plant, which has contributed to the Kütahya Kütahian budget and Turkey's budget for 50 years. Dear lawmakers, you know very well here, you've passed a clause in the paper that we passed in early July, in which you've passed a bag of law, which you've passed as AKP lawmakers, that can be privatized by the President of the Privatisation Administration of the Liniyet territories in a midnight motion. When? July 4, 2012. This material passed right away. Until November, during that summer vacation, the precious government combined the Seyitömer thermal plant and Seyitömer Liniyet Enterprises and tendered quickly, starting with Kütahya first. Right now, two days from now, they're out of time for this tender. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what's the rush, what's the rush? What is the cause of this power's hostility to Kütahya? That's what I want to know in particular. Now, in the first step, I want to know why you started the sale of energy facilities that you had never done before in other cities. These businesses have contributed years to this country's economy, allowing nearly 3,000 employees to go home with bread. Now you're saying: I need money, I'll sell it. Why don't you need investment? Why do you need money? Do you, by any chance, see the persecution, the misery that the current staff will suffer in six months? Mr. Secretary, can you get these people working under Law 4857 to be transferred to other units in accordance with the same law? Yesterday, I asked the President of the Privatisation Administration for a contract and a condition for this sale, and they said they couldn't. You'll sell my country's property, you won't be able to give the contract to the congressman. What does that mean? Well, then, there are some provisions that suggest that you're going after someone. I'm going to take this contract, I'm going to look into this condition, and I'm going to pursue this sale to the end. But I'm going to say hello to the bureaucrat from here, and one day we're going to look at this whole contract together. Dear lawmakers, if we're selling investments, previous investments in this country, let's rethink the decision made by the bureaucrat who couldn't give you the contract. That's why we're going to vote in this budget, and unfortunately, it's not an investment budget, it's a sales budget, and I'm going to remind you once again that it's a archeological budget.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0046par0306	Now, it's Basic Coshkun, the Yalova MP who wants to speak on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0047par0308	Mr. President, I would like to present my opinion on the issue of Article 9 of the 2013 Central Budget Act. I salute you all. It has been ten years since the EC PARTY took part in the political scene as Turkey's hope. All this time, we've kept our physical contact with our nation and our relationship with our hearts and we've continued by increasing them. In government work, we've made major investments in prayer and support from our nation. In ten years, we raised Turkey 10 times. In 2002, the total amount of investment was 59 billion dollars, and at the end of 2011, the amount increased by about 5 times to 283 billion dollars. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you some headlines on investments. In the last decade, we've invested $140 billion in transportation, shipping and communications services, 89 billion in land roads. Our six provinces before us were interconnected in divided ways, while our 74 provinces during our rule were interconnected in divided ways. We invested a total of 24 billion euros in railways, 7 billion 300 million euros in airlines. Our number of active airports has risen from 26 to 48. We've made innovations in all areas by investing 2 billion and 300 million in marine services. In the 2013 budget, we increased the investment funds of institutions by about 20 per cent compared to 2012 to 39 billion to 200m euros. On the other hand, thanks to the economic and political stability that we have provided during our governments, we have cleared the way for the private sector. In the 1980s and 2002s, investments were only $3 billion, $100 million, while in our ruling era, it increased to $16 billion, 500 million. Thanks to these investments, every citizen with a moon-star passport now, no matter where he goes in the world, he walks tall, feeling the power and prestige of the state behind him. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the AK PARTI, in the ten-year period of power, have made investments in Turkey that have passed the age, and have produced projects. Hopefully, these investments will continue quickly in 2013. Before we make a distinction, by saying that we serve man and man, it means that we keep the government alive. From understanding, we know that 780,000 km is our home, 75 million brothers. We've invested separately in 75 million of our cities. In this context, we also gave important support to our beautiful Jalova, the pearl of Marmara, in flowering, kiwi, fruit, and natural beauty. Our Yalova, who has invested in health, education, transportation, sports, tourism and shipyards, has become a remarkable attraction. The Gulf Bridge has added a significant value to Yalova (Yalova), as well as land transport. The project, between Gebze-Yalova-Orhangazi-Eznik -- will end in 2015 -- costs 6 billion 300 million. Mr. President, we didn't say what we couldn't do, but we certainly did what we said. With each passing day, we've increased the confidence in our government. Inside, we gain the trust of our nation, and we become a country with a growing reputation and a global brand. However, as we listen to opposition lawmakers on this bench, we are amazed and exemplary. We're in our people, we love our people, and we care about them very much. We get their thanks, their criticism, and their criticism. Our report card is fine. We take our report cards and grades from our nation and we keep raising our grades. Now I believe we deserve to be praised. Mr. President, our Prime Minister, who signed thousands of principles in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...then, for the longest time as Prime Minister, he will set another record. And he says, "Hopefully, better investments will come to this country under his leadership, and I call upon the Lord to bless the 2013 budget for good, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0048par0318	Thank you. There will be a ten-minute question-answer procedure. Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0049par0321	Mr. President, thank you. I have a question for Mr. Finance Minister: Now, because of 2/B, or because of paying the mortgage, there are farmers. These farmers are watering it with underground water or pumps. In late February, 2013, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is writing a paper: If you want to license your pumps, if you want to get a new license, we can't give you a deed or a water permit if you don't have a deed. They say, they want to wear a water watch. Does Mr. Finance Minister intend to extend the time of this or promote the farmer? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0050par0325	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0051par0327	Madam Secretary, the public protects the rights of its institutions and institutions, but the public protects the damage to the public. Just like public defenders do, it's their basic duty. However, a trend began in public institutions and institutions: giving out files. So, when you're giving out files, you're projecting to them exactly the amount of money the lawyers out there get, and you've had years of work, years of public rights, years of public rights, and years of hard work, why do you deprive people of power of the fee? Isn't that right, Minister? When are you going to defend the rights of public defenders? Two, the Law of Debts 584, no one cares. You won't get taxes, the firms are going down, Mr. Secretary. The Minister of Justice doesn't care. The Minister of Customs and Trade doesn't care. You spoke yesterday: the shortest time... the firms can't get permission from their wives. The banks don't give loans. You won't get taxes. A significant portion of the firms are being damaged, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0050par0330	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0052par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. Our farmers are burning olive oil in their tractors now. Do you find it fair that your engine, which is used in agricultural production, is taxed in the same amount as a luxury engine as 4x4, plus sea tourism, fishing, transportation and diesel on yachts without taxes? Do you intend to reduce the tax burden on the engine used by farmers? Besides, do you think you can even the price on gas and the bike, except for the farmers? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0053par0336	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0054par0338	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there has been a major setback in their financial situation in recent years compared to other service classes of public defenders working under the Law of State Officers No. 657. Therefore, the working conditions for public defenders' rights must be corrected. There are over 3,000 public defenders, as it is known. Do you, therefore, intend to make any arrangements regarding the rights of lawyers working under the Law of State Officers No. 657 in public? Is there any work your ministry has done to address the victims? Do you plan to conduct a study of public defenders regarding status issues, financial and autonomy rights issues, audit and audit issues? Because all public defenders have great expectations. I've brought this problem to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0055par0342	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0056par0344	Sir, now, our Tunceli province, you know, it's snowing all over, the roads are closed. The County Special Administration doesn't have any money, and the municipalities don't have any money, and the village roads are closed. Do you plan to raise an additional coin? That's my first question. The second is: This one received a reward from Mr. Gaddafi, and he was given $25,000. Then he said, "I will donate this $25,000 to the families of martyrs. Is it ever donated to the families of martyrs or to any association?" If it's forgiven, where is it donated? If he's not forgiven, let him know. And you know, in the Wikileaks documents of the United States, it was said that Recep Bey had eight bank accounts in Switzerland. Now, have you asked the Swiss government as the Ministry of Financial Crimes about this, is there any such money in the banks, or not? Because it's the Fiscal Protection Agency that asks the best questions here. So if you didn't ask, why didn't you ask? If you're asking, I'd like to know the results. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0057par0348	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0058par0349	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, why does this T-Cetveli grant be put into the budget every year, becoming a habit that forces people to bribe, pressure? Do you think you can prevent that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0352	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0060par0354	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0355	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0060par0356	I was coming after Mr. Young, and I have a list.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0357	Sir, you're out of the system, you're back in.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0060par0358	I didn't.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0359	I don't know, I gave it to you in order here, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0060par0360	I'm sorry, I didn't leave the gym. I'm standing here. I have a list, so I'm sorry, we're on this list...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0361	I get it. If you'd brought the list, we'd have given it to you before, but...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0060par0362	Here, I'll get the list for you, Mr. President. I mean, I live here, too. I didn't leave.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0363	Mr. Tanal, you entered the system, then you went out again.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0060par0364	But my dear President, it's not because of me, I've never left.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0059par0365	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0061par0366	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, this is about investments. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond briefly to criticism. In the period of EC PARTY governments, investments' total budget spending has increased from 6.6 per cent to 10.8 per cent, so investments in our governments have increased by 1.5 per cent. Not only have public investments increased, private sector investments increased. In my budget speech, I also said that in the previous decade, real private sector investments have decreased by around 30 per cent, while real sector investments have increased 2.7 times in our time. Now, as to the subject of ecprimisille, I'll talk to our Minister of the Environment and Forest, and if there's a problem here, I'll help extend the time to the end of practice 2/B at least, but our preference is that no one of our citizens has to occupy the land of treasure and therefore have to pay for it. Our preference is to rent treasured land, to establish altitude rights. So we don't find it right either, but if the treasure land is occupied by necessity, of course, it's paid off, but we'll work on the solution to the other problem, as I said. Dear friends, no new regulations have been made regarding the custody fees of public defenders. I mean, it's not like it was before. Under Code 659, lawyers who follow the case are paid $8,569 a year gross custody fee, so there is a clear $6,800 retainer fee. There is no new change, and there is no study of it at the moment.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0062par0371	Mr. Secretary, you don't hand out the power of attorney to them -- you put it in the budget.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0061par0372	With an arrangement in the Law of Debts, of course, I explained yesterday that the problem with this mate must be resolved. We, of course, will soon bring an arrangement to our House, and we'll be on our way. We're subsidizing the support of our mazota governments used in agricultural production. There is at least 11 per cent of the current gas prices, as much support as 12%. Soon, gasoline is not on the agenda of an arrangement that will even the price of diesel or even its tax. We've just made an S.T.V. on fuel products. There's nothing new about public defenders -- I've responded before -- about their rights.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0063par0375	How much do you charge for the power of attorney? You're not giving them all away.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0061par0376	Mr. Young, this year we have supported all our provinces in the fight against the snow, taking into account the gas and salt they used to consume.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0064par0377	They say it's closed. It's snowing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0061par0378	That's right. We backed it up. Now, if we need to support our provinces again because of this support, or because of the snow, or because of the winter conditions, we'll work and we'll do it again. I'm not responsible for your other questions because I don't know anything about them. If you ask our Prime Minister or the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0064par0380	The Financial Crimes Watch Commission is up to you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0061par0381	It is not against the law to have an account of any citizen abroad. The question is whether the revenues from these accounts have been declared...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0064par0382	That's where the money from smuggling was invested.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0061par0383	...and whether or not the profits or interest revenues from there are paid taxes. That's the extent that concerns us as the Treasury Department. Again, there's the issue of grant vehicles. In 2013, 1.620 vehicles will be obtained via grant. Its 1.492 is owned by general budgeted institutions, and 128 is owned by private budgetary institutions. Now, of course, I can give you the details of these. Why are we putting this here? We put all the car purchases on sabbatical within the budget. Some of our institutions can actually get these tools in a frame. Our citizens may want to donate, or some institutions have foundations, and what they get from these foundations is not just a matter of charity and giving away a vehicle.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0065par0387	Go ahead, Mr. Tanal, ask your question. It's inappropriate, but I'm giving it to you. Mr. Tanal, you're out of the system, then you're in. I'm giving you a right that doesn't exist. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0066par0391	If it's not appropriate...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0065par0392	It's not in order.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0066par0393	I'm sorry. If it's inappropriate, I'm not asking questions, so it's clear.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0065par0396	Thank you. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Treasure aid to the local authorities MADDE 10- (1) of the Finance Ministry budget; a) 12.01.31. 00-06. 1. 0. 07-1-05. The grant, which is part of the 2 arrangement, is in accordance with Article 13/1/2005 and Article 586 of the Act, in accordance with the interim Article 7 of the Law, to pay for the monthly and all other financial and social rights of the people who have been transferred to the city's private administrations or major city municipalities, on the basis of Article 1 of the Act, or on the basis of Article 2/7/2008 of the Law, and on the Payment of General Budget Taxes to municipalities and 5779. B) 12.01.31. 00-06. 1. 0. 08-1-07. As part of the 1-site grant, the Support of the Villages' Infrastructure Project (KODES), the special administrations and/or villages' services for the infrastructure needs of the villages, c) 12.01.31. 00-06. 1. 0. 9-1-07. As part of the 1-site grant, the Water Sewer and Infrastructure Project (SUKAP), the County Bank of Anonym Corporation is responsible for carrying out municipal drinking and waste projects. It's used to be justified. A grant can be transferred to the current public administration budget, or to the private budgetary management budget, if needed within the scope of the SDUAP. As part of this joke, the assistance of the Treasury to relevant governments is impregnable and cannot be guarded. (2) The funds included in the first joke (b) and (c) beneficiaries will be determined by the High Planning Board for the 2013 Investment Programme, and for the SDUAP, the distribution, use, monitoring, and control of municipalities. Lawmakers who want to ask questions will be promised to the MPs who entered the system after the clause was read. Now, Mehmet Erdogan wants to speak for the People's Movement Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0067par0409	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 10 of the budget law. I salute your high council. I'd like to start with the drama at Kerkuk. Be proud of Barzani, and leave our brothers and sisters in Kerkuk to their fate. I wish God's mercy on our brothers, who have been martyrs in Kerkuk, because of recent events, and for the immediate healing of the wounded. Dear lawmakers, treasury assistance to local governments has been in every budget for years. The duties of municipalities are set by the City Code, and the resources necessary for these municipalities to carry out their services are set by the City's Finance Act. Okay, so why are there provisions in the budget law for providing financial assistance to local governments? The main reason for this is that some municipalities do not have enough income to carry out the duties given to them by law. Another reason is that the municipalities of power strive to make themselves needy. The government uses treasury assistance especially as a means of pressure on small municipalities. If you choose mayor from power at election time, you will receive services, or you will not receive services. If we support power and power with the slogans of hand-to-hand, we will receive more services. The embodiment of the understanding of the government, the financial aid, the political bribe, or political threat, is also fueled by the power. Now, I'd like to ask: how many of our mayors have you transferred to your own party since the 2009 local elections, using Treasury Aids as a means of bribery and oppression? Precious lawmakers are appointed as a balance fee for municipalities with a population of up to 10,000 per thousandths of the total collection of general budget tax revenues totaled in the first amendment of Article 6 of the Law on the Payment of General Budget to the Special Administrations of 5779 and municipalities. The Finance Ministry transfers this grant to the Ilbank Ish account in March and July to be distributed in two equivalent installments. The Ilbank Corporation distributes 65 per cent of the funds to its account equally, and 35 per cent on the basis of the population. Now, when there is an equivalence grant available for small municipalities, bringing different funds with budget laws is a clear statement of policy. If the equivalence fund is not sufficient, a new and fair system for municipalities under 10,000 must be decided here. Again, according to Article 6 of the same law, there is no other grant in the budgets of the ministries and related institutions, such as a share, funds, or private accounts, except for the share of the first amendment and the funds specified in the first joke. In this case, it is also in violation of this law that budget laws and grants are provided within the scope of SDUPAP and CSEAD. The distribution, use, monitoring and control of funds placed under the Finance Ministry budget, is also determined by the Higher Planning Board. We all know how the High Planning Board was formed, so the High Planning Board is created by members of the government. Given that this is the way the High Planning Council was formed, there is no need to discuss how decisions would be made here, not to mention which municipalities, which private administrations would be transferred to them. Dear lawmakers, if we want a permanent and significant solution, we need to organize the Law on City Revenues, which we haven't been able to organise in years, by today's conditions, to get the municipalities enough resources to carry out their duties. In the process, objective criteria such as the size of municipalities, summer winter populations, and the width of geographical areas should also be considered. Otherwise, it's obvious that the mill won't turn with the pouring water. In recent years, the CYDES Project has taken on an important function of delivering services to villages. However, this also requires serious questioning. THE failure to meet the demands of services carried out with CYDES projects and the failure of these services to meet a certain standard of quality makes this interrogation even more mandatory. In addition, it is the duty of the province's private administration to do infrastructure services for villages. Why can't private governments do infrastructure work at the level required in our villages? Of course, they don't have enough resources. Okay, so why are new projects, new spending pens being neglected when there are permanent resources being transferred to the units that are in charge, and why is it really not understood? Again, services under the SDUAP Project are already part of the work that municipalities should be doing. Why can't municipalities do the projects they need to do under the SDUAP Project? Because they can't afford it again. Well, while all municipalities have enough resources to solve their problems, some of them are being given sufficient resources, others are being begged at the gate of central administration. You can't tell what the point is from this. Therefore, it is important that municipalities be given the amount of resources that they can do with the law, and those resources should be transferred to all municipalities with no distinction, according to objective criteria. Dear lawmakers, one of the biggest injustices of the municipalities was the new Metropolitan Municipality Law, which was introduced in the year of the law. Without a meeting in the Constitutional Commission, without a discussion of the Plan and Budget Commission, the facts are hidden from the citizens, as if smuggling goods from the fire, the new Metropolitan Law, which is passed through parliament quickly by the ruling AKP, is separating our country into city states, creating the infrastructure of a federal system. In order to fulfill the Prime Minister's presidential dreams, the imposition is that the law of the new Metropolitan Municipality Law, which has created a significant threat to the unity and integrity of the Republic of Turkey, which is to eliminate the unitary state structure of the Republic of Turkey, is to make a significant difference between the cities, which are the capital cities and non-majority administrations. Due to the increasing share of the New Metropolitan Law and the major cities, these cities are now being paid around $4 billion a year to share in the treasury. In addition, the Metropolitan Municipality Law and the amount of tax and tuition from the citizens will be collected by the cities of this capital. However, nothing changes in municipal revenues in non-majorities. So you're going to transfer more resources to the city municipalities, less resources to non-majority municipalities, and then you're going to compare the two of them! How unfair is that? What kind of justice is that? There's really no way to figure that out. We have nothing to say about good-meaning measures in order to strengthen local governments, increase speed and quality in the presentation of services. However, the goal of this Metropolitan City Law is certainly not to enable local governments to reform, to benefit more from resources and resources, and to satisfy the needs that exist in this area to the maximum. Based on the increase in separated resources, we are already hearing comments without further investigation of whether sources are being used more effectively. In a few years, Mr. Prime Minister will bring up the implementation of the management model in major cities all over Turkey, based on the urban municipalities that have used so much resources to produce services. This will lead to radical change in our country's administrative structure. As a result, it must be ensured that the revenues of municipalities and private administrations will be increased to do the tasks given to them by law and distributed by objective criteria among local government units. The transfer of funds and assistance to local administrations must be stopped through an unfair application of treasure and other ministry budgets. Just yesterday, here, the Minister of Environment and Urbanism announced how much garbage they distributed from the 2012 budget and, of course, they distributed it on their own terms. I hereby ask that the 2013 budget be a blessing, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0068par0424	Thank you. Husamettin Zenderlioglu who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0069par0427	Sebahat Tuncel, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0068par0428	Sebahat Tuncel... It doesn't matter, you'll have to speak for someone else anyway! Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0070par0432	Mr. President, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I have taken a pledge on the 10th Amendment, and I salute you all. Today, as we say, as the Peace and Democracy Party Group, we are on the stand today to announce the voices of six of our non-communists, to reflect their views on budget talks. I speak for Gülsel Yıldırım today. [[A picture of Mardin MP Gülsel Yıldırım has been placed in front of the bench by Hajip]] Before I express my views on the budget, I want to express a few things to you as Gulsel Yıldırım about my own life. You know, we haven't had a chance to talk on this stand. In order for our group to come up with a method like this, we've at least had the opportunity to explain ourselves. Dear MPs, I was born in 1963, I graduated from high school, and as the mother of four married children, I continue to do political work. It doesn't matter where I am. Today, I am in the prison of Mardin, calling you from there, but in the end, before I went to prison, I had a life, and this life is still going on. Dear lawmakers, of course, politics is not a choice in the geography we live in, most of the time it is life itself. Because the geography we're living in is in a geography where there's an unknown war, a conflict, and in our geography, children go into this political atmosphere, and so is my life. In fact, when I look at my family's life, especially in the 1990s, I come from a time when the protection system was the most imposed in the political struggle, where we were tortured for not accepting it, and, on this occasion, my father probably couldn't stand the torture, physically lost his life. I mean, politics isn't a choice from our point of view, as I just said. Naturally, as a woman such as myself, who has lived in such oppression, who has been forced to alienate, who has been forced to arm himself against her own brother, but has refused to do so, I cannot be expected to stay out of politics, especially as a member of a family tradition of honor, including the pressures of a male system and war, including the problems that I have experienced as a woman. Of course, it's not that easy to do politics in my country as a woman in Turkey. Naturally, when I entered into this policy, I was still under the same pressure, difficult policies. I've been taken into custody on a period of time before when I was in politics. I have been tried before in Diyarbakır Heavy Penal Court and have been imprisoned in Mardin Closed Prison for four months. So, from the Free Party to DEHAP, I've done politics in many areas. The last time I conducted political activities at the Peace and Democracy Party was on January 15th, when I was detained and arrested under Mardin's foot of a political genocide operation launched under the name "KCK. " I ran while I was under arrest. I've been nominated for the 2nd rank of MP at the Labour, Democracy and Freedom Bloc Mardin. I was inside, but there were both independent candidates out there... you know, we ran independently, you know, in Mardin, with our three candidates, Mr. Ahmet Türk, Mr. Erol Dora and I. I was in prison, but our other candidate friends worked for me most in the election work, and I was voted 53 thousand votes. But unfortunately, this will, it's 53 thousand votes... so I didn't run with the party list, I ran with independent candidates. I'm in prison now, and the people's will has been imprisoned in some way. So, dear lawmakers, really, really, what is it that I am today in the prison of Mardin? Really, to understand the reason for all of this, what is this political genocide operation under the name of KCK, what it brings to Turkey, I really want to make it a little bit more clear if the AKP government has succeeded with this policy. In my case today, we have six current MPs. We still consider him a member of parliament, including our former MP, seven of our friends are now in prison. Our 24 mayors, current mayor, elected mayor in the 2009 elections, are now in the dungeon, our 19 friends, the deputy mayor, are now in the dungeon with us. Along with 13 of our fellow mayors, 41 municipal workers, 94 city councilmen, and 13 members of the city's general assembly, we are in fact being subjected to a political genocide in Turkey. Actually, our party's closed down in the verb. So the BDP is actually trying to do politics in a way that insists only on lawmakers and this democratic politics, which insists on being executives, but in fact, we see much more clearly that the AKP government has shut down our party, especially in prison. In the daily talks at the House, let me say again, the voice of the BDP is almost never heard in the press, which is reflected in the public opinion. So if the budget talks weren't open, we probably wouldn't be able to listen to any of these talks. Dear lawmakers, there is only one goal to the political genocide operation under the name ▪KCK, to push Kurds out of democratic struggle, to somehow eliminate and suppress the Kurdish demand to use language, identity, cultural rights, Kurdish collective rights based on being a people. Second, there is a Kurdish problem, not by denying the Kurdish problem, but by saying there is a Kurdish problem. As the prime minister said in Diyarbakır, this problem is our problem. Therefore Turkey must face its past, and the rights that we have gained here must be legal and constitutionally guaranteed. The end of the war, the end of the conflict, the absence of deaths, the start of negotiations will be possible. That's exactly why we're still being held hostage in prison because legally there's nothing that we really need to be held for. What is now on trial is the activities of the BDP. All our activities, all of our work, all of our work, have been cited as a crime in the CK indictment. We've always said, if these are crimes, we'll continue to commit these crimes because they're our reasons for being. So in this country, to defend democracy, human rights, is a legal state. The Republic of Turkey is called a legal state. We see from here, from Mardin prison that it is the law state of the AKP government that arrests and disables what it wants, according to the AKP. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to express a few things about the budget. From what we've seen here, of course, we haven't had the process of getting involved in this commission period, we've had the opportunity to observe this process in public, by watching more and more public opinion, but it turns out that this budget is not a budget for our people, it's a budget for which we haven't been given an account. We can clearly see that this budget is a war budget in a place with such a high share of covered funding. When we consider this war budget and think that the conflict in the Middle East is going to deepen in the coming period, the economic crisis is going to deepen again, in this sense, a very problematic budget and a budget that should not be accepted in favour of our people. In other words, as women, our friends from the BDP have expressed it many times, and we would like to express it once again. There is no social gender-sensitive approach. So it's a budget that ignores women, ignores workers, is developed to strengthen its own power. So we want to say once again that this budget is not in the interest of our people. In the end, however you plan this budget, you will plan the next term accordingly. We've seen enough fighting, fighting, suffering in this country. This country must live in peace with its peoples, with its own people, with all its peoples living in its own country, with all its energy, all its policies, on peace, but unfortunately with this budget, we see once again that it is budgeted in a way that prepares war and conflict in the Middle East, in a way that does not consider the opinion of the people. We want to make it clear once again that this has to be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, I would like to put an end to my words: of course, I speak not only on behalf of my own behalf, but on behalf of my friends, who are in prison -- up to ten thousand -- in prison. One of Turkey's main agendas is the Kurdish problem. The budget talks are over, but the real agenda will be back tomorrow. In the solution to the Kurdish problem, the negotiations must be launched not immediately, but during the hunger strike period, we have expressed that the ban on the mother tongue must be lifted, and the immediate removal of the lockdown on Mr Abdullah Ocalan, and the immediate launch of the talks is more important for Turkey's democratic future, and I salute your General Assembly from Mardin prison once again.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0071par0449	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hasan Akgöl, Hatay MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0072par0452	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 10 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill. I hereby salute your high council. The 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill, which we are nearing the end of their talks today, is the 11th budget of the AKP government. As in the previous 10 budgets, the budget does not include workers, civil servants, tradesmen, pensioners, widows, or small incomes. On behalf of the poorest people in this country, this budget will be your government's last budget. Dear lawmakers, the manufacturer and tradesman in my district are devastated. With all due respect, the farmer, the tradesman, the worker, has lost hope. From 2007 to the 11th month of 2012, there are 10,940 businesses closing in Hatay. So imagine, instead of increasing the number of jobs that have been opened in the past period, 10,940 businesses have been closed; jobs are narrowed down. This situation is not acceptable. Hatay has a credit balance of 7,989 tradesmen and artists. So I'm talking about the tradesman and the artist who had to use a loan to stand up. I'm talking about a potential risk. The combined impact of the government's economic policies and the fact of the region and foreign policies against our country's long-term interests brings bankruptcy in Hatay. The most realistic example of this is the fact that we've been living in Syria for about 21 months. I don't think our ruling lawmakers know the effect of Syrian events on Hatay. I'm sure they know as much as I do how it affects the farmer, the exporter, the importer, the business. Dear lawmakers, a large percentage of the economy is based on agriculture as well as on transit transport in Hatay, a region with fertile territory. The Hatay is also made of fine olive agriculture, cotton, wheat, corn farming. The agricultural-based industry has not been able to make the expected jump since it has not been brought to the desired level. I feel the need to make this statement because as if the manufacturer in the region doesn't moan under heavy input costs, a new application will now be implemented. Mr. Secretary just said in his speech that I'm a farmer, and I've had a hard time understanding. ▪ We subsidize 11 per cent of the Mazoo used by the farmer. I don't know how it's done, how it's made, how it's made, how it's made, how it's made, what it's made, what it's made of. And as a farmer, I'm very curious to know what that's like. An application in Hatay, which the country's producers have been anxiously awaiting, will be carried out by your government in the coming days. In 2011, according to Article 10 of the Law on Underwaters, you made it mandatory to establish a measurement system that would determine the amount of subterranean water, and you added the specifics of this measurement system in accordance with regulations. The DSI wants to do this, starting in February 2013: it will put a meter in the underground waters and determine the amount of water you draw. In the same way, electricity will determine the amount of energy you draw by adding a card system to the electric meter. What's worse here is the more troubling part, friends: the farmer will have to do a year's notice of fertilizer, diesel costs, electricity, water that he'll use. So the government will go... when he's watering the third water of his cotton, watering the second water, and if he's running out of water on the card, he won't be able to water it. Now, you know, when you showed the tuberculosis and you agreed to malaria, that's what the system came into. So you make people forget even the cost; you send water, how to use electricity, how to buy water. Here, and there's something else besides that. The cost of these counters, along with the electric meter, is over $400. The farmer's already bent because of the inputs, the farmer's stable, and he's going to get an electric meter and a water meter for $400 and more, and he's going to take care of it! What's left? How can you persecute this farmer, how can you? I wouldn't have thought of that for 40 years. You'll find something, I'm sure. Now, fellas, I don't know where to look or how to criticize this. In this area, I have at least 15 or 20 of my fellow farmers who live at these tables, and I repeat, I have farm mates who are affected by these inputs. I'm amazed they don't go to their territory and talk to these farmers, and they don't get along at all, and they don't listen to their problems. How dare they go to their territory and stand next to that farmer, that's another matter. We passed a big city bill. The boundaries of this capital city bill -- especially for my own science -- were drawn in such a way that how to win the election, how to turn the election into the AKP, how to take the lost municipalities, that's the only thing that was settled on. Mr. Prime Minister says we're in favor of combining, not dissolution. I ask this: Let them come to Hatay, and I'll show them how the Aleki community in Hatay is separated by red lines. I showed this to the Home Secretary on the map. I'll wait there for the answer to how they plan to combine it, to integrate it. And there's a problem with the revenues of our local government, folks. Now, we have municipalities on the shoreline. The winter populations and summer populations of our coastal municipalities are about four to five times different. Now, since the funds are assessed by the winter population around here, these municipalities are unable to be victims of the summer and provide the necessary services. They need to be funded, considering summer populations. That's one of the things. Another is that the current government is implementing the persecution, persecution, torture that it does not apply to its own municipalities, to municipalities belonging to ours, the Republican People's Party. Here is an example of this, and our other municipalities are an example of this, and DP municipalities are an example of this. Not a day goes by when a mayor gets suspended, and every day a mayor gets arrested. And while the opposition's municipalities were so corrupt, did the municipalities of power bathe in white milk? Is there nothing wrong with them, nothing wrong with them? And you can see this very clearly from what I've been saying lately, it's been increasing: the number of oppositions to the ruling wing is increasing day by day so that they don't have to investigate. So in order not to have an investigation, to receive services, to be with a citizen, or to have a comfortable mayorate, to have a clean mayorate, do you have to be AKP municipality? But if the AKP gets its identity, will that mayor work comfortably? Please, friends, let's be reasonable and...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0073par0464	Calm down, man!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0072par0465	I'm calm; I'm very, very calm. You calm down, I'm not saying anything.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0073par0466	Relax!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0072par0467	I'm very comfortable, guys. I'm from bureaucracy, so I know what conditions I work, and I've worked with the AKP government, and I've worked with other governments. Friends, I hereby declare that I will vote in the name of my party for this budget, in which the worker, the officer, the shopkeeper, the small-income, and the poor are not in it, and I will salute all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0074par0470	Thank you. Reza Turmen, İzmir MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0075par0473	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm speaking on behalf of myself on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, with the assistance of the treasure to the local authorities. There is a European Condition for Local Governments, prepared by the Council of Europe, and Turkey is a party to it. Of the 30 articles here, Turkey has accepted 20. It has not accepted 10. The 9th article is related to the assistance of treasure to local governments, local governments. Among the things that Turkey does not agree with here are: Once again, it must be consulted by the central administration of central management for the assistance of this treasure. The subject of this assistance must be determined by these bilateral consultations. Turkey did not agree to this. Secondly, the financial aid to the local government should not be done on the project. This money must be left to the discretion of the local administration, how to spend it, where to spend it, where to spend it. Turkey did not accept this clause either, but there is another clause that Turkey has adopted under the conditions of the Council of Europe's Local Governments, which is this: any decision on the matter of the State of Emergency should be taken by the local administration, a general obligation. Decisions concerning all municipalities should be taken by the central administration, whether it is the help of the treasure or the changing of the borders of the municipalities. Turkey has accepted this clause, but it does not apply it. We, the Republican People's Party, ask that the 30 articles here be accepted and Turkey not to put them on any matter. Of course, it's a matter of mentality, it needs a change of mind; it needs a change of mentality based on decentralisation, based on strengthening local governance. On the other hand, the Turkish Prime Minister made it perfectly clear in his speech in Konya yesterday that Turkey was governed by a mental structure. He says, Mr. Prime Minister: But this thing called separation of forces, it's coming, it's standing in your way. So it seems that the Prime Minister is complaining about the separation of forces, the forces are asking for unity. It's already run by the forces of Turkey. In actual practice today, Turkey is governed by the mentality of governance, where all forces, all power, all power is collected in one hand. Madison is the founder of the United States of America. In these federalist papers, federalist papers, Madison says: "All these words of power, law enforcement, execution and judgment, whether it is a collection of one hand, whether they want to pass from father to son, whether they want to appoint themselves by choice or come to work by choice, are the exact definitions of employment. All power in one hand is the desire for life, for execution, for judgment to come together in one hand. The name of today's regime in Turkey is therefore not democracy; the name of today's regime in Turkey is an authoritarian regime that is running the election; it has nothing to do with democracy. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, as if that weren't enough, the Justice and Development Party proposes a presidential system, bringing the Constitutional Compromise Commission the presidential system. This is an effort to restore the authoritarian regime to a constitutional basis, constitutional legitimacy, because the presidential system proposed in that presidential regime actually gives the president broader powers that are not seen in any presidential regime. If that presidential system goes into effect, whoever the president is -- I'm sure the Prime Minister wants it -- he'll have a lot more authority than Obama. What's he gonna do? The House will have a dissolution authority; it will have the authority to govern the country under a decree of law; it will have the authority to appoint all senior bureaucrats, public officials. Such a presidential regime has never been seen in the world, but this is nothing more than an effort to put the actual situation today on a legal basis. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit01spe0076par0483	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 2:30.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0076par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Act in 2013. The commission and the government are in place. On the 10th article, now, in turn, belongs to Diyarbakır MP Oya Eronat.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0077par0006	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 10th article of the Central Management Budget Act of 2013, titled Treasure Aids to Local Governments. I salute your high council. Today, human history is experiencing a great change. This change has brought social change to all countries around the world as well as in economic and technological sectors. Governments must share this change with their people. In 1924, there were 85 per cent of Turkey's population living in villages, 15 per cent in cities. Today, there are 17 percent of people living in the village and 83 percent of people living in the city. This is a sign of our country's transformation and transformation. In our rapidly urbanized society, the majority of the services that local governments were supposed to do until the time of the AK PARTI power period were done by central administrations. For example, today, the immediate work and rapidly solved problems of the state's private administrations were being carried out at the speed of the turtle by village services. Before 2002, in my hometown of Diyarbakır, the number of villages brought drinking water was 161, while today the number of villages received drinking water was 1,395. Dear lawmakers, again, the BELDES and CYDES projects and local governments have been made stronger. The amount spent across the country for special administration projects is $7 billion 918 million, and the budget for 2013 is 578m euros. A total of 259 million and 125 thousand liras were sent to the province of Diyarbakir between 2005 and 2012 for projects such as the asphalt, stabilisation and bridges of our village roads in Diyarbakır. The Water and Sewering Infrastructure Project, which is another part of its financial aid to the Mahalile administrations, is divided into municipalities for SDUAP in 2011, with 400 million in 2012 and 500 million in 2012. For 2013, the budget was earmarked for $525,500,000. As part of the Water and Sewer Infrastructure Project, ilBANK sent $1 billion,214,900,000 to Diyarbakır's municipalities between 2003 and 2011, and also offered $1181m25,000 in loans. Between 2003-2012, 28 separate projects were completed in Diyarbakır province with 175 million and 425,000 TL. Under the 2011/11 Supreme Planning Board's Decision and IIBANK SUKAP Project, a total of $36,800,000 project loans were provided to Diyarbakır districts for municipal services. A growing and developing Turkey has emerged in the local region, combined with the experience of our Prime Minister's importance to local governments, the world's pearl, which was legendary for its service to Istanbul when it was mayor. With these thoughts, I wish you all the best of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law bill, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0078par0017	Thank you. Now, the question-answer process will take ten minutes. Mr. Belen, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0079par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Turkey's central management debt supply has been marked with significant increases. In 2006, the domestic debt supply, which was 251 billion euros, reached 391 billion liras as of the 10th month of 2012. Likewise, the foreign debt supply reached 93.5 billion dollars in 2006, reaching 145 billion liras in the 10th month of this year. The increase in foreign debt in seven years is 55, 4 percent. Turkey's foreign debt is 323.5 billion dollars as of the second quarter of 2012. During the AKP period, the public's external debt rose from 86 billion dollars to 111 billion dollars, while the private sector's external debt rose from 44 billion dollars to $212.5 billion. There are 84.3 billion dollars of the private sector's foreign debt to banks and 128.2 billion in real sectors. Public foreign debt...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0080par0024	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0081par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, according to our Constitution, our disabled, disabled citizens must be subject to positive discrimination. Citizens with 70-80 per cent reports are not supported by the idea that the minimum wage exceeds 2/3 when their family's income situation is calculated. Would you consider taking a step forward in the budget of next year on this law as part of the social government? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0082par0029	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0083par0031	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you're drawing a pink picture in case Turkey is the 16th largest economy and we come in budget size. We are, of course, happy to be the son of this country, but where we come from, when it comes to collective contracts of business officers and employees, you tell the public that if we give to officers, pensioners, we become like Greece, our economy collapses. Now, look, when we come to collective contracts in pink, we have teachers who can't be appointed, we have teachers who can't be appointed, you hire 65 thousand teachers, you don't hire them. In Turkey, you have transformed Turkey into a fully cheap labor paradise... with a contract in the government's original service staff, such as 4/C, 4/B. This is the 16th major economy that you've created, our worker, our villager, our teacher, our officer...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0082par0034	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0084par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Is there budget planning in the budget according to cities? If so, how much of the budget is earmarked for our province? 2) In disabled schools, we receive reports of corruption in the form of equipment. Of course, in that sense, would you consider accepting our statements as Secretary of State and doing some research? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0085par0040	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0086par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during your time in power, pensioners were constantly promised to pay bank promotion. Do you have any work on this? Will pensioners get bank promotion in 2013? Again, you've merged all the social security agencies under the name "SGK" but nothing's changed. The pensions will be evenly paid. You said that, but that did not happen. Do you have any work for 2013 on solving pensioners' problems? Again, will you allow our citizens, who have worked as members of the USSR before, who have reached the age of retirement, but who are unable to retire because the number of days he has paid is not enough and who can no longer work? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0087par0047	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0088par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. According to data from the Ministry of Finance, which is also reflected in media-journal organs today, Turkey is ranked last to sixth in the OECD of 34 countries -- including social security premiums -- in terms of tax loads. The total share of taxes on property and service in Turkey is 47.7 per cent, while the amount is 4.7 per cent in the United States. It is also said that Turkey has had a major problem with the distribution of the cargo, not in terms of the tax load. It is also known that the strategy for taxing more than less than a few winners, more than a few winners, has not been implemented enough for non-registered, high tax evasion and other reasons. Mr. Secretary, how does he feel about this? Also, Mr. Secretary, which minister appointed the board member who was arrested in a corruption operation at the Public Contraction Agency? What decisions did this board member take on the tenders? How do you expect us to trust these decisions and this institution? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0089par0054	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0090par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. First, if you'll excuse me, of course, it's a matter of income-separated shares to the local authorities. I'd like to brief you on whether or not I'm speaking in that sense. In 2002, we earmarked $4 billion, $747 million, and in 2013, we raise $33.4 billion, but more importantly, the share of budget spending goes from 4.3% to 8.3 percent. Many of our friends say it's a war budget. But I want to say that in education, the share of health care and local administration has increased to two levels in the budget. As for the first question, although our dear friend Mr. Belen didn't get a chance to complete his question, he was likely to ask about a debt. If not, if you ask me in the next session...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0091par0060	Minister, there's the Treasury, the private sector's foreign debt bail...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0090par0061	Let me just say, dear friends, that the debt of a country or a citizen, a company, because no one will lend you free loans, is nominal, so that debt always increases because it's interest in debt. For example, in 2002, let's say the treasury's debt stock is 100 liras, but since that $100 debt was borrowed at 63 per cent interest, what happens if you don't pay those interest rates? That's 163 lira at the end of the year because there's inflation in that country, not nominal interest rate zero. For example, in the 1990s, the stockpile of domestic debt increased 770 times. Look, it's not one floor, it's not two, it's 770 times higher. Now, during the AK PARTY administrations, the stockpile of domestic debt has increased by 1.5fold. Turkey's clear external debt -- speaking from the public side -- does not exist. Turkey, as a state, is a debtor from the outside, from the world. So that's the thing about debt, but since I don't know your question, I can't say anything. Dear friends, there is indeed a serious transfer of funds for our disabled at this time. Of course, the need for these benefits to be placed on a rational basis, to be attached to certain conditions, to prevent abuse, is actually to be a rational state. I mean, I look at it from that frame, but you know, these conditions are heavy, they're incomplete, they're a lot, I think they can be discussed and discussed. Let me just say that in 2002, the total spending of our disabled brothers was around $50 million, while in the 2013 budget, we're up to about $7 billion. Mr. Havut, my dear friend, I never painted pink. I always say that the country has gains, there are structural problems; of course there are shortcomings, there are surpluses. But I didn't say that if we give more money to our officers, Turkey will collapse. I'm just saying that we have to consider the real resources in all our work. We have 30 percent of our staff spending in the budget today. Look, staff expenses are up to 30 percent. Of course, we need resources for investments, for our staff, for public service. We need to stabilize all of this. We also got a teacher... about getting a teacher. It occurred to me that in comparison with EU countries, the minimum wage in Turkey was more than 11 European Union member states when I looked at the last one, the minimum wage on a gross basis. So, indeed, Turkey has come a long way in that regard in recent years. We don't plan a budget for cities because a lot of public services are general. It's a defense service, etcetera. So, we're getting this much income from this county, so let's budget this much... but he's making investments that our country needs all over the country. I don't have a number in front of me, but I also know that Şanlıurfa actually got a serious share of the investments. I consider what you're referring to as a report on the disabled. Our President of the Tax Control Board is here, so if there's anything that concerns us, let's do it. Mr. Erdogan, again, has brought up the issue of promotion regarding pensioners. I don't know what kind of promises have been made here, but we, the Treasury Department, have retired... and I'll tell you what, if I have time...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0092par0070	It's done, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0090par0071	It looks like five minutes in there.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0092par0072	No, it's wrong, sir. It's been over five minutes, seven seconds, sir. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The funds of the Defence Industry Support Fund, established by Law 3238 and established by Law No. 7/11/1985, will be met under the basis of the grants laid into the budget and other same and cash opportunities to be considered together by the Defence Industry Executive Committee. (2) the budgetary funds for the National Defence Ministry, the General Command and Coast Guard Command shall be determined by the provisions of the 1st joke from the current funds assigned to the Security Directorate; the funds for the purchase of aircraft and helicopters, drones (IHA), the flight simulator and Electronic Harp (HEWS) project; Turkey's Borders and Coasts General Directorate of Health, and the current funds for the maintenance of motorbots from the current funds earmarked to the Security Directorate budget; the funds for the budget; the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget to the General Directorate; the budget of the Ministry of Forests and the Ministry of Health; and the Ministry of Education for the Ministry of Health; the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defences and the Ministry of Health, according to the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence. (3) The amount from the Defence Industry Support Fund to the Treasury comes to the general budget, while the Minister of Finance has the authority to register funds for the relevant arrangements of the National Ministry of Defence budget and to transfer funds for the past years. In accordance with budget laws, the years concerned are placed into the central accounting department of the general budgetary administration of the Defence Industry Support Fund, and in private budgetary administrations the income of the relevant administration (B) is registered into the accounting unit. In general budgetary administrations, the Minister of Finance is in charge of saving funds for the budgetary budget, while in private budgetary administrations, he is in charge of a special budgetary administration. The National Ministry of Defence, the General Command of the Gendarme, and the registration of funds in administrations outside the Coast Guard Command are associated with the annual investment programme. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who has asked on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0093par0083	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today I will speak as Faysal Yellowstar: [[A picture of Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldıldı is placed in front of the bench by Hajip]] This is the court I took at the will of the nation. I'm at Diyarbakir Type D Prison right now. I'm watching you live, you can't see my blue eyes. I was born in Cizre, the oldest city in Mesopotamia. At 35 years old, I was elected Mayor of Cizre with a record of 85 per cent in the 2009 local elections. I was arrested in June 2009, two months later. In the 2011 parliamentary elections, I became an independent candidate for the province of Şırnak, where I received 39,570 votes only two years later, so I received at least twice as many votes from the President and Prime Minister, and I was on hunger strike when we were being spoken about the arrested MPs on this parliamentary stand, while we were being spoken about in the hunger strike; I was on hunger strike for the mother tongue, for isolation, for solutions. If you're curious about my reality, I am a student of Kurdish education in Medresa Sor, Mir Abdal, Süleymaniye, Shazeh madres, Ahmadi Hani, Melaye Ciri, Fekayi Tayana, Melaye Bate, Mehmet Arif Cizrevî, Mem u Zin, Cizre Castle, Bedirhanis, Birca Belek, Yafes Bridge, the language, the culture of the Kurdish people. I would have woken up with the voices of the Great Mosque with the two-headed dragon of Cizre; I haven't heard these sounds in four years; I'm handcuffed, and I have no more faith that our citizens will be equal, free, and democracy will be established, that a new page can be opened in the 21st century. Members of parliament, all MPs from Şırnak province -- I, Selma Irmak, have been arrested. All the mayors have been arrested. Over 1,000 people were arrested and received 80 per cent of the vote from here, independent candidates supported by the Peace and Democracy Party. I say, now, stop forcing citizens to accept the subject, the democratic community, the Kurds, the Turkish, the Shafiis, the Hanefi, the Alevis, the Sunni, the Sunni. Don't turn dialogue into betrayal, democracy into dictatorship. Do not silence every objector on the political floor, or one day you will shut up. Your government will either change or solve. Congressmans, we've come from privatisation, sales, black money, fiscal pardons to budget. The EC PARTY crawled through Kurdish capital, walked with Arab capital, wants to fly with global capital. IN THE TOKI construction industry, 3-5 companies, 3-5 companies in the energy sector, financial, banking companies 13-45 companies. You said, "Go away, Bismillah." You didn't know the limit. What was the Ottoman doing? The harem, the palace, the weapons need money; he was handing over taxes, customs, mines, precious land belonging to the State, income resources, mines for a price. Now, that's called a contract. You stepped on gas in privatisation; you sold 36 public companies, 81 facilities, businesses. $36 billion wasn't enough, you couldn't get enough. In the first place, the government made a contract budget inspired by the apocalypse. The wealth of the country is being sold like the property of someone's farm, their property, their father's. Last week, energy companies went to 5 billion, yesterday's bridges, highways to 5.7 billion... now, national lottery, state manufacturing farms, sugar factories. Everything in schools, sea, air and land has been sold. This is the adjustment, design, election budget, and three elections were financed with the Central Time Program. This is the war budget. This is what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're We are now discussing a clause which the Court cannot supervise, which the Assembly cannot oversee, whose reports are not given, what is bought and what is sold. The largest export force to send troops across the border from Sudan to Afghanistan is in the pocket, with arms on the trigger, Al Qaeda, Al Nusra, religious extremist armed organizations are in our country, provocating, meeting at the Antalya Rixos Hotel with weapons, declaring a public war on our neighbors. Inside, outside, mobilization. No day without a funeral. He'll send troops out of parliament, he'll come out of parliament, he'll come out of the government, he'll come out of the government, he'll come out of the U.S. with 400 troops from the Netherlands, 400 from the Netherlands, 400 from Germany without the will and decision of this Assembly, and Turkey will sit on your land, and it will collapse, and its command will be in their hands. The government's blackened his eyes, he's got his will, he's got his plan. If it's freedom, it's prisons! Security is half the budget! If it's money, it's the Istanbul Financial Center! It's Syria! Here's $16 billion for the F-35s, $4 billion for the Skorskys, Patriots for the Patriots, NATO for NATO, the United States for the United States, the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union, the CIA for the FBI for the Mossad, MIT for Godu Akbar, the attack. Who'll catch you? The media is yours, the decree is yours. O representatives of the opposition, who are a obstacle, a stir, a ruiner of dreams, a disrupter, a separatist -- according to the APP -- don't you know that the country is the AKP's, the AKP's, the patriot is the only AKP. You can't reach your dreams, your horizons! AKP's crazy projects, the canal to Istanbul, the Black Sea coast, the bridge of new Istanbul, the bridge of civilisations to Tuzla, the giant star island to Çamlıcaya, the giant mosque to Ankara Lakebaşağı ekokant... the prime minister roars, reads from windows, reads to lives. He says, "Who says these are the mental neurostructures?" I wonder which bureaucrat, which system, which law, which court, which politician will chain me, which will not fit me; I, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Sultan of the great decade, have given orders, my subjects, Obama. I said, with new laws, the system changes, the sultanship is not enough, the presidency comes. If we have the opposition, the idle parties, the Turkicism, we have the Kurds, we have the racism, we have the religion, we have the leftist, we have the secularism, we have the secularism, we have the antilateralism, we have the money, we have the power. What did he say: come, whoever you are. You said democracy, you said opposition, you said controlling the budget, we'll do it. We've got the lies, the loot, the money, the guns, the power, the power. Let the Qur'an be struck, and let him look upon our discourses, and let him rejoice. If it's rash, if it's sassy, sassy, sassy, dare he... we got 50 percent vote, people, we got this budget. We're the proud ones, you're the victim; we run the government like a company. Come on, have a good year.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0094par0097	Thank you. Mehmet Ali Editoglu, Hatay MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0095par0100	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 11 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, all countries with resources rich in raw materials, minerals, oil, natural gas and water in the world today face the threat of war by global imperialist forces. So they're either going to share their wealth with global forces or they're going to be aligned. Today, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and other Gulf countries are being patted on the back for handing over all energy resources to these global forces. Today, in these countries, they don't even have a central bank, they all need permission to withdraw money from banks in the United States, so they're in modern colonial positions. Is there a democracy in these countries? In Bahrain, in Kuwait, in Saudi Arabia, the people rise up with a demand for democracy and are thrown out into the street, but with the support of the West, the regime is powered, these people's movements are severely suppressed. We haven't seen hundreds of dead, thousands of wounded in our media, unfortunately, it's been censored. Dear MPs, let's talk about Iraq. Saddam was punished for being a dictator? Wasn't it the Western global forces that led Saddam to work in Iraq, to fight and support Iran? Over time, Saddam got out of control and became disobedient, stateised oil wells, expelled foreign oil companies from Iraq, most importantly, disabled US dollars in oil sales; he became the biggest enemy and pulled the rope. Let's get to Syria. During Turkey's four-year honeymoon period with the Syrian regime, our demands to remove only obstacles to the democracy were not met. The expression is not very realistic, precious MPs. More importantly, the demands of Western global forces have been imposed on the Syrian regime. These demands, hidden from public opinion, were sent to the Syrian regime, but there was an even more important demand, that oil in Qatar and northern Iraq be transferred to the eastern Mediterranean via an oil pipeline through Syria and be granted permission to transport to Western countries through Syria, to improve relations with Israel, and to suspend relations with Palestine. Believe me, if the Syrian regime had accepted them, Assad would be on family vacation today in Uludağ, as a guest of our Prime Minister. Dear MPs, the wrong account returns from Baghdad. There is an expression. A thousand years ago, it was a city famous for being the center of science, culture and wealth in the history of the world, Baghdad. At the same time, Baghdad, the capital of Islam, was teaching Western civilization and humanity. Wherever there were inventions and inventions in the world, it would be assessed and approved in Baghdad, if it were found appropriate, so it would not be approved if it was not approved, so the wrong account would return from Baghdad. Precious lawmakers have arrived at the point where the West is today influenced by Islamic civilizations and especially by the Indulusian civilizations, but the West is trying to cover it up with its inferior complex, denying and rejecting the Islamic civilization it is affected by. After Baghdad was occupied in the Gulf War, the Baghdad Library and the Baghdad Museum, the world's most important cultural centers, were looted and destroyed. Those who could not digest Islamic civilization destroyed the museum and the library as if they were taking revenge on Islam. It was actually a conscious operation to erase Islamic civilization from memory. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to show you the headline of yesterday's MillİGAZE. They strive for Islam without Muhammad. I'd like to show you the headline of the paper. And I'm afraid the AKP is putting them on crutches. There's a story called, I'd appreciate it if you could read it. I'll leave his comment to you. Dear MPs, those who set up radar bases at the Globecik, in order to protect Israel against Iranian missiles, go and weep in Gaza. Foreign policy is not about emotional approaches, it's about work, it's about practice in the field. The day you shed tears for Gaza, you led the ro-ro campaigns between Alexander and Hayfa into service. You also felt the need to hide from the public that this agreement was made with Israel. Another information reflected in the media is a secret agreement signed on November 11 in Doha. With the signature of Mr. Davutoglu. According to this agreement, water will be transferred to Israel through the pipeline from the Ataturk Dam, and the Palestinian resistance will sever their ties with Turkey. There are serious claims. The community is clearly waiting for an answer. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are questions that society has been waiting to hear from you. These questions have been asked many times, but there are no serious, convincing answers yet. For example, there is abundant news about Patriots, but serious debate has begun that 1,160 foreign soldiers will be deployed in Turkey. He would have had to go through a statement from this House, which would have had to be discussed and approved in this House. They started writing that the coven had been bypassed. And we look forward to the answer. 425 million liras -- which was announced by the Minister of Finance -- have been announced by the refugees three days ago -- but the amount you gave to Mr. Ban Ki-moon, the Secretary General of the United Nations, is $1 billion. I expect you to explain more than four times the difference. I wonder if the people here are being misled, if it's the United Nations? Unemployment has increased in Turkey in the last two months, while my science has doubled in Hatay. Sadly, however, the fact that the Syrian asylum seekers were also employed at the same time raised the figures of our unemployed, and the AKP government took no precautions. Another thing: do you think you've done enough in Hatay and other border provinces to stop the trade, stop the bankruptcy? Again, a very important issue is the location of olive oil and olive producers. In my science, it is known that on average 1,000 tonnes of olive oil and at least 1,000 tonnes of grain per day from the border -- from the border that is turned into fat -- has smuggled into Turkey by means of illegal means, making our manufacturer unable to sell or sell its own product. We have repeatedly expressed this information from this bench, but so far no measures have been taken. I'd like to ask, are you in favor of the smuggler or the manufacturer? It's the same problem that our feeders are experiencing: life-threatening. Because of the animals that come in -7,000-8. The one you bought for 000 lira -- our feeders, 2,000-2. He can't sell for 500 liras, and our really victimized feeder is being run over by a smuggler. I'd also like to ask you: are you with the smuggler, or are you with our feeder? We've brought up the matter of stolen vehicles, and no precautions have been taken. Even the deaf sultan knows that many stolen vehicles from Hatay and Turkey are being used in the war in Syria; everyone knows that they are talking about it, there are no measures. Today the price of stolen used vehicles is $5,000 in Hatay, and taken from our border to Syria. And I regret to inform you that the government has not taken precautions. We've got a burning truck situation. There were no measures taken about these trucks, nor were the victims removed. Dear lawmakers, the bill for insisting on all these misdeeds goes up to our country, our people, and our region. Turkey has to change its foreign policy to get out of this stalemate, otherwise, these wrong policies and practices seem to lead our country and our region into a great war. However, I still think we have our work to do for peace, our steps to take. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0096par0121	Thank you. Necati Özensoy is an MP for the National Movement Party Group on Articles. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0097par0125	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on Article 11 of the budget's final accounts. I salute you all. In this article, the ministries related to funds, about the use of funds, are given powers to determine their numbers. Of course, I'd like to point out that in the use of these funds, the ministers should use their responsibilities rather than their powers, because when these funds are being used, while some of the high-tech materials are being bought here, we're seeing really huge price changes. To give you an example, we've seen in studies about this seismic research, where MTA and Turkish Oil work at the same time, and we're dealing with a number of offers that are almost twice the price. So these numbers, the numbers used from these funds, are high numbers. The ministers also need to take full responsibility and take full control of them while they exercise their authority. At the same time, we can clearly and clearly see from the Court reports that almost 60 per cent of the purchase of nearly 3 quadrillion liras under the control of Turkish Coal Company is being paid by the governors today, even through the governors, through the direct treasury, through what we call the Fak-Fuk Fund. I mean, even these funds are being distributed and used to the poor, I'm afraid there's been some trouble. Now, from the beginning of this budget to this day, the ministers, the prime minister, friends from the ruling party, came here and talked about some numbers. In particular, they've always compared a number of numbers about the permanent state of macroeconomic stability to show the state of the economy when we come to this day. Now, I'm not going to say anything very quickly, but how did the 2008 Budget Programme -- how did this government come to be able to achieve this macro stability? - I'll share it with you by reading from this official newspaper. The Minister has a signature on this budget program. See, the current situation, titled "Macroeconomic stability" on the 79th page of this Official Gazette, states the following: "Inflation has been reduced to single-digit figures from the beginning of 2000 and has been under control of public deficits and has been supported by a key economic crisis in 2001, despite the deep economic crisis of 2001, the economic climate of confidence and stability for decision-makers has been established, and the economy has been brought into a constant growth environment, and inflation has been reduced to single-digit figures, and has been under control of public deficits, and has been co-opted by the continued implementation of financial policies. In addition, the implementation of structural reforms that have led to the aim of the economy reaching a more efficient, flexible and efficient structure has contributed greatly to the continuation of macroeconomic stability. At what point did structural reforms take place? 2001, in particular. In this period, reforms and practices have been carried out in many areas, including tax, banking, central banking, insurance market, public financial management, local government, social security, health care, energy, telecommunications, sugar, tobacco, agricultural support, public tenders, public financing and debt management, task losses, private revenues, funds, the statistical institution, the development of the investment environment, and public investment environment. And again: From the beginning of 2001 -- at the beginning of the period in which the government was in charge -- there were significant achievements in achieving price stability with the aim of inflation, which has been implemented explicitly since 2006, and inflation has come to one-digit figures. Now, in fact, at the end of these budget programs, with movement from here, with structural changes during the 57th Government, because there was a confession here again, there was the 2008 Program, there was 2009, there was that, but then after that global crisis in 2009, there was a change of interpretation of macroeconomic issues, of course. So, if we're talking about macroeconomic stability today, of course, in 2001, I think it's important to see the big impact of those structural changes that took place in the year 2000, and to thank those who made these structural changes at the time. Now, look, in this period of time... since it's official newspapers, of course, there's not a lot of nature going around here, so there's not a lot of numbers or interpretations that can be changed. For example, let me read to you some of the passages from the 2013 Program: reduction of informality in the economy: among the factors that have uncovered an important structural problem of economic life in our country, which is a structural problem, the excess of macroeconomic instability, high tax and premiums, and the lack of other administrative-mali-national burdens, as well as the lack of inter-mali-national burdens, corruption, the low-scaleness of businesses, and the lack of common perception of public spending, including the lack of control, the lack of inter-mali-national burdens, and the lack of sociality and the lack of afficiency, the lack of sociality and the lack of afficiency, and the lack of afficitivity and the lack of sociality of public spending, says. They're in the 2013 Program. There are a lot of confessions here. Other than that, for example, about industry, what kind of look is there in 2013? They also mentioned here in the 2013 Year Programme: after the global crisis began in 2009, in 2010 and 2011, there was a significant improvement, and during January 2012 and August 2012, a significant increase in exports, but the rate of growth in production and employment has slowed, the number of new businesses, the capacity rate of use has declined. Again, according to the National Bank of Turkey, the production industry capacity rate dropped to 74.2 in 2012, while 75.4 per cent in 2011. Look, I'm not saying this, I've read you these passages from the 2013 and 2008 programs. So it's probably more useful to put it in a more realistic, more realistic way here. All these numbers, seeing us in front of us... here, in all the investments, we're talking about the size of the illegitimate domestics, but we're denying the debt of the private sector, or we're denying the debt of the private sector, or we're saying the debt of the private sector is not ours. So, we don't care about private sector investments in external debt. But I think if we had more realistic tests here, we'd be more realistic. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0098par0139	Thank you. Now, Mehmet Erdogan, MP of Gaziantep, has asked for a word on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0099par0142	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 11 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute you all. Dear friends, the geographical structure and geopolitical position that we are in, has shown that it is vital that our defence power be structured according to the needs of the age, within the framework of our national security policy. As we all know, we've been living in an environment where maps have changed and interfered over the past hundred years, especially in geography. The state of the Republic of Turkey has become a country with very serious accounts over the past hundred years, and nearly 100 ▪ states have been created over its previous Ottoman geography. For some reason, when the European Union is being formed, when all regional units are being formed in our region, there's always separation, work, division, efforts to reduce the brother to the brother, and when we look at this geography well, the most recent republics that have emerged in the dissolution of communism are being calculated on countries of Muslim origin or on countries of Turkish origin. When the Azerbaijan issue came up, Azerbaijan was facing the Armenian invasion of Karabagan before communism broke up. Did only Armenians occupy Azerbaijan? No, the 12th division of Russia behind him. Again, when we look at Middle Eastern geography, we look at the Balkans, we see the same events. Here it is, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Bosnia has three federal structures today. Her name is Bosnia and Herzegovina, but it's impossible to see her fully independent. We call it the United Nations. Our Muslim Bosniak brothers in Srebrenica, in the Bosnian refugee camp under the observation of the United Nations, were slaughtered in front of tens of thousands of Dutch soldiers, but no one heard from Turkey but Turkey. Again, in 1976, when we looked at the Middle East, the Palestinian refugee camps -- you know, under the observation of the United Nations -- thousands of refugees were killed in Tel al-Zaatar. In 1982, Israel, under the command of Ariel Sharon, again under the command of Sabra and Shatilla, were not content with slaughtering and slaughtering the people of the camp, but brutally slaughtering until the animals they sheltered there. Plans are being made in the Middle East. Iraq was occupied twice by the United States. Again, a little ahead of us, Afghanistan first invaded by the Russians, followed by America. A hegemon power, based entirely on oil, has been trying to rule this land for a hundred years. Again, division activities on Turkey. Now, what do you have to do with them? Do you have to stand up and go to war with every single country? No. What do you have to do? Then we need a strong industry, a strong defense industry. Now, this powerful defense industry of ours, the local industry, has to be built. It's also impossible for a war industry without a national war industry to succeed because you're always dependent on the outside, and in the middle of the war you're unarmed. Well, we don't want to go to war, but the powerful, national war industry has to go with development. Examples of these, as you all know, here's the ALTAY national tank project, the MILGEM ship project, the ANKA Turkish drone, the ATAK helicopter project, the Original Helicopter Development Project, and the project of the LAND-2 Satellite that will be launched today at 18.12. Dear friends, you have to be strong to deter; your economy will be strong, your defense industry will be strong. That's what we do every step of the way.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0100par0147	What are Patriots then?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0099par0148	Yeah, and I'm amazed at who's uncomfortable with Patriots. So someone wants Turkey to be vulnerable when it is exposed to an attack. That's not allowed, either. Turkey is an independent state, and it will protect its independence to the end, because we have to be the leader of this region, the Balkans, Asia, especially Central Asia, the Middle East, and the geography we live in. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0101par0151	Thank you. Ertugrul Kürkçı, Mersin MP. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] In 2012, while closing the budget, I would like to conclude our position on the budget by discussing a situation in which the budget is not being used properly and properly in terms of national defence, justice ministries and the Turkish Grand National Assembly. This is the cross-border air operation of the Turkish Armed Forces, which resulted in the killing of 34 villagers in the middle of the night, December 28-29 2011. In this air operation, 34 of our citizens have been killed, in the field of justice, in the field of control of the Ministry of Justice, the courts in the field of influence have never been able to bring their ministers, their prime ministers, their chiefs of staff to justice, to reveal and evaluate their actions as responsible for this. It's going to be a year, it's going to be a year, and 34 villagers have been looking for their own sons, their dead children, their own fates, their own children, their own sons, their own killers, who are responsible for it every day, under the threat of being arrested. The Uludere Commission, established by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, failed to reveal this fact because it looked at only one place as a source of information, the Chief of Staff; in any case the General Staff refused to give information, it remained helpless as an institution. Now, my dear friends, if our hands are not tied, our minds are not tied, our tongues are not tied, it's not that hard to solve this case. A report in the newspapers on November 14, 2012 said that the Prime Minister handed over his command to the armed forces for changing the rules of engagement, as he was in charge of cross-border operations. Is that so hard to get out of here? So on December 28-29, 2011, the Prime Minister was in charge of the hit order. On the night of December 28-29, 2011, 2 F-16 jet planes could not only be in the Air Force Commander's command to lift and kill 34 defenseless villagers, it should be in the Chief of Staff because that's how the hierarchy worked. So, then, in front of us, politics, the government; directly true, personally, the Prime Minister; the Chief of Staff as a military officer; directly, directly, the Chief of Staff is responsible, there is a massacre, there is a massacre, but no courts can question the account of this massacre, nor the House Research Commission, the review commission can exhibit it; their hands are tied, and since June, there is no new information coming to the distribution of this commission, the Chief of Staff is resisting. If there was a political will behind this investigation, how could the political will go to the Joint Chiefs of Staff to answer for the assassination of police, prosecutors, judges, and the fact that 34 citizens were assassinated directly? So military custody was over, huh? Obviously, military custody has actually become a new custody system used directly by the government. There's no reason for the Prime Minister to come to you now and say, "This is what is called the separation of forces. He's coming, he's standing in front of you as an obstacle." It is, it is, but the opposite is true. The Prime Minister is coming, and he stands in the way of what is called separation; he does not make the court do his work, nor does the assembly do his work, nor does the government do his work. The House must face it. Whether he will do it or not; whether the blood of 34 villagers will remain on the ground, or not, we will see in 2013. On the sides of the House, and on the sides of the government, and on the sides of the army. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you. There will be a ten-minute question-answer procedure. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0102par0164	Dear President, thank you. Public roads and bridges must be free of charge according to the basic principles of administrative law, according to the principle of public service. However, in accordance with the principle of meccanicity in administrative law, a sum of money can be paid in exchange for his amortism. But these days we see bridges and roads being sold. Adeta is used for the purpose of bringing in economic gains, in order to bring in commercial rants. Does that not violate the principle of freeness of community service? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0103par0167	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu... no. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0104par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, smuggling is the most important factor in the financing of terrorism. In our country, many products are trafficked, especially sugar, cigarettes, tea, alcoholic beverages, fuel. There are two important reasons for this smuggling: one, the height of taxes; two, off-the-book economies. Do you intend to reduce some of the EV and VATs in some products to prevent smuggling? Gene, what measures will you take in 2013 to end the informal economy to fight trafficking? In addition, it is especially important that the informality in food threatens public health as much as the economic size. Do you have a special program as a government to solve the discrepancy in food products? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0105par0176	Thank you. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0106par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are over 2 million tradesmen operating in trade groups such as the grocery store, the grocery store, the butcher, the barber, the shoe store, the weirdo. Since there is no legal arrangement for markets, supermarkets, and malls, our people in this small business group are struggling to survive. Again, according to their earnings, more than 15 per cent, 10,000 to 25,000 liras, over 20 per cent, over 25 per cent to 28 per cent, over 35% of tax in the taxation system. Other major corporations pay 20 per cent tax due to the tax of institutions. One so that this small-scale tradesman can continue his struggle. Do you have any work?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0107par0183	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0108par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, our Adana province is Turkey's most important agricultural and industrial city, while Turkey's unemployment rate is the highest today. Do you think it's because of the wrong policies in the last ten years? Again, growth in 2011 was 8.5 per cent, and this year it fell to 2.5. How does unemployment fall from 9.8 to 8.8, as growth falls from 8.5 to 2.5? Isn't there a contradiction here? Do you think there's been a play on the table at these unemployment rates? Because there's been dozens of calls in the last six months about the job demand, which means there's been some kind of tampering in these numbers. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0109par0189	Thank you. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0110par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a clear error is increasing every year. As of the first three quarters of 2012, it was built around $6.5 billion. The president of the Central Bank has stated that the net error pen is a problem with the balance of payments. How much of the money shown in the clear error pen was recorded? Where does this money come from? In response to a question I submitted to the Ministry of State for questions regarding the rights, issues and social positions of the petty officers, and reflected in the press, there will be various improvements to pension sergeants, as well as to compensations. Are you opposed to this arrangement as a ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0111par0194	Thank you. Mr. Belen... Last question.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0112par0197	Thank you. In the second quarter of 2012, foreign debt is $323.5 billion, and $212.5 billion belongs to the private sector. How much of this private debt does the Treasury have? Also, do you have any work to implement the VAT and VAT discount on the purchase of a zero-kilometre vehicle to the relatives of the deceased? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0113par0201	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0114par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with Mr. Tanal. Dear friends, in many countries around the world, highways are paid for. In Mexico it is, because I used it, I know it well. So in many developed and developing countries, highways are charged one way or another, and so are bridges, and so are tunnels. Thus, the practice in Turkey does not mean any contradiction in that sense. Secondly: yesterday's tender is that the ownership of the highways is not given to anyone, only the private sector is given the right to operate in the private sector for a period of time. It's actually the same with electricity, it's the same with electricity distribution, it's the same with electricity production, so it's not going into the private sector, it's being transferred in this way for a certain time in case the private sector is more efficient, it's more effective, but the revenues that come from here, of course, come back as a service to our nation, as an investment. Of course, it's true, one dimension of terror financing is related to smuggling. And we're doing everything we can to fight smuggling. Of course, here we have the Anti-Register Economy Action Plan. He'll be telling me those details shortly, so there's no way. If you're really interested, I'll send it to you, and I'll even send you our progress report, but I'll make it very clear that in the last decade, we've been at a distance from fighting off the books in Turkey. In fact, we've downloaded a lot of taxes, but in the 4-5 products you're talking about, yes, taxes are relatively high, but don't be surprised if I say that there's a lot of unregistered property where taxes are 1 per cent and VAT is 1 per cent. At least we have a lot of data on this. So it's hard to explain with tax rates only, but of course the tax is effective. But we still have to fight, of course. About that, as I said, I'd be happy to share our work with you. Again, regarding our trades: Of course, in recent years, malls have become common not only in Turkey, but around the world. It's a consumer's demand, consumer's preference, but of course we're doing what it takes to protect our tradesman. Last time, you know, we made an arrangement this year. In the old days, you know, those who went from simple to true taxing could not go back to simple procedure, and we took a very radical, very important step in this matter. Other than that, we've exempted some traditional tradesmen from taxes, and we've started giving them an exemption. Of course, if there's anything else to be done about it, we'll work on it. Regarding unemployment in Adana, dear friends, unemployment has fallen in many of our provinces in recent years, and I'm sure it has fallen in Adana. I don't have the numbers in front of me. Last year, it's true, Turkey has grown by 8.5 per cent, and this year there will be maybe 3% growth. Unemployment has already been increasing since September. There's no discrepancy in these numbers. So, just as TÜİK shows unemployment is up to 16 per cent in 2009, so is TÜİK, which says unemployment is around 9 per cent today. So, the creditability of our institutions is important, and I don't think it's right to make any other assessment. As for the net error noxane: There are very likely several sources of clear error. One of these sources is shown in Turkey that imports are higher than they should be because there is a reference price application. Secondly, tourism revenues in our country can't be properly detected, which is a second source. But other than that, of course, if there's an unregistered source in our country, it can be seen in a clear margin of error. There is no study of our petty officers' rights at this time, but I can tell you that our petty officers' minimum salary has increased by 206 per cent since 2002, inflation is 141 per cent. Of course, there is an increase of up to 263%, so there is an increase between 206% and 260 per cent. Inflation is 141 percent at this time. As for foreign debt, friends will handle the foreign loans guaranteed by the Treasury. Dear friends, the value of private sector companies has increased by at least seven times this time. Look, the stock market is worth...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0115par0215	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Treasure guaranteed opportunity and the limit of the contract of the external debt and the transactions related to debt MADDE 12- (1) will be provided according to the Law on Public Finance and Editing of Debt Management No. 28/3/2002 in 2013; the limit on guaranteed opportunity and external debt cannot exceed $3 billion. (2) A 1st article (a) can be exported to 1 per cent of the initial grants specified by the first article (a). Lütfü Türkkan has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Article.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0116par0225	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group regarding the guaranteeed means of treasure and the limit of the agreement of the external debt and the transactions related to debt. I salute your high council. During the 2013 Budget Bill talks, I observed that the government and the Justice and Development Party wing had done it. It should not be forgotten that budget talks are the process of closely auditing the government's actions and where monetary resources are earmarked for policies the government plans to implement within the budget year. The criticism expressed by the opposition in the budget talks should therefore be taken into account and not ignored. It seems here that budget talks have now become the fulfillment of the condition of the shape. Earlier, budget talks continued as if a month, while the final Justice and Development Party was reduced to ten days. Along with the ruling majority, the budget also meets the requirement for shape in the form of those who accept it and those who do not. Budgets and financed policies are actually affecting everyone across the country in two ways. The first is that the resources that authorise the spending of the budget are now in the pockets of all of us and our children and grandchildren, due to taxes and debt collected indirectly or directly, and due to debt piled into the future. Second: Taxes and money collected from citizens' pockets are being routed to a certain percentage of the tenders, where public resources are transferred to certain sections. Thus, unfair changes are created in the distribution of incomes and the principle of justice is ignored. On Saturday night, I put it on this bench, and I repeat, this is the first time we've had a budget meeting where there are no court reports. The government, which has thus far removed the authority to control and control efficiency of the Court's position, is trying to prevent the knowledge of its arbitrary and unlawful expenditures by not giving to parliament financial control and judicial audit reports, which it has agreed to be carried out. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we see that Mr. Finance Minister is trying to get through a ditch in order to settle the budget this year and this year, but while the Minister of Finance is doing that, the tenders from the other side are being transferred to some of the public resources into capital. The last time I told the Minister of Energy, the businessmen who burned the letter of collateral in a $1 billion tender at the Mediterranean Electrical Distribution Corporation received that bid for $500 million this time. Again, last week, they closed the Istanbul European Side Electrication Company tender at $3 billion this time for $1 billion 900 million. So the difference here is $1.6 billion. When I asked Mr. Secretary about this, Mr. Secretary told me that the same firms who received this contract last time weren't the same ones who received the tender. Are these guys that stupid? They've agreed, they've given us a share of the sites before, new areas are down $1.6 billion. It's a very difficult job for the Minister of Finance to try to meet the budget in an environment where one of these public resources is being stalked by someone. Look, yesterday, two bridges and highways were auctioned off on one side. These highways were given to Gülter, Malaysian company and the Coach group for 25 years for 5.72 billion Turkish liras. Look, according to the promotion documents on privatisation of highways and bridges, the figures there say that the average income of these bridges is $2.1 billion. So with this privatisation, it turns out that these bridges and highways are being auctioned off with less than ten years' income. In the beginning of the year, again, the government tendered the third bridges and highways to Astaldi and Itas. There, he will find additional investment credits -- let me tell you -- which will build bridges and roads, which will build, which will make the difference -- in this tender he received with the construction-business-development model of the Astaldi and the Introstate Consortium, which includes three bridges and roads of 115km. What's the total time? Ten years and two months. So he's going to get an investment loan of $2.4 billion, he's going to do it in three years, he's going to get $2.4 billion back in two months in seven years, plus he's going to make a profit. He's going to get that money back in nine years, ten years, 15 years, at the price of the tender, which is $5.72 billion here. I wonder if you don't see an injustice here, the elimination of public resources. Mr. President, the law on public finance and debt management, 12th article we're talking about, can't exceed the limit of $3 billion on the contract of the Garantli opportunity and external debt. As we look at the reasons for the provision of the 2013 Budget Charter, the value of the amount of the amount of the amount of 3 billion U.S. dollars in the 12th article is guaranteed and the limit of the tender of the foreign debt and the amount of about 4 billion Turkish dollars in private arrangement, the state-owned debt export limits are based on any real budgetary limits. There's no need to go into a lot of numbers or terms, but there's one thing that needs to be judged here, and that is that the use of the specified limits has been given to the Minister in charge of the Treasury. What's the handicap? Due to this authority, the limits mentioned are very convenient to use arbitraryly. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, according to a report published in October, Turkey's foreign debt from foreign countries over the past decade has been $324 billion, so about 550 billion Turkish dollars. This debt was 82 billion dollars in 2002. There's a debt from 82 billion dollars to $324 billion. So, what's been done in this country, by the way, that the country is so in debt? And I'll tell you one more thing, the price of privatisation, which is close to $50 billion, has come into the treasury of the state. There's an 89.6 billion-dollar highway investment that appears to be an $8.5 billion spending on health facilities. Other than that, we don't know where the money is going, I doubt it. We've been able to pay close to $5.5 billion a year. In the future, we'll go with a budget to make our children pay interest. In the future of our children, we're just going to let them have a budget designed to pay interest on debt. Do you know if there's ever been a power plant, like an Ataturk Dam, any major investments, at the end of the decade, we've done that. Is there an investment that you call it? No. We express our appreciation for highways and health care everywhere, God bless those who do. Really, we appreciate the Minister of Health's applications, but other than that, you can't talk to us about any kind of hand-held, visible investment. However, you have mortgaged Turkey's future more and more. Even when we enter into the detail of the 12th article, which is considered to be a simple determination of the budget that we are expected to approve, there are many setbacks. In this case, his suspicion is increasing that the budget is being prepared with a genuinely informal approach. We're beginning to think that you're preparing to fund fun expenses. Turkey has paid a total of 12 billion $327m foreign loans, except private sector debt since New Year's. From December 1st to December 12th, we paid $225 million in foreign debt, one of the most important problems of our country is this burden created by foreign debt. Full independence is about everything in a nation, everything in the state, the economy in the first place. It would be a bit ridiculous for you to claim independence in an economy this heavily burdened with debt. I ask that the budget be a blessing, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0117par0240	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Jesus Gök, Mersin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0118par0244	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. We know our Prime Minister has great skills. One of his great skill is to set an agenda and change the agenda. He uses some people to change the agenda. For example, no one is talking about the right to be elected at 18, or the return of the death penalty, the change of the execution system. They're already changing the agenda. But sometimes the Prime Minister says things that don't change the agenda. I wish there was a change of agenda, something different and something very dangerous. For example, yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister gave a speech at Ionya, and said: -I have downloaded the exact text of the same Doğan News Agency: there are unfortunately errors within the system; the system is not organized; the system is not structured; you are looking at us unexpectedly, unexpectedly, and the bureaucracy stands before you; the bureaucratic oligarch is standing in front of you, and you are facing judgment in an unexpected place. Legislation, execution, and judgment must first consider the interests of the nation in this country. It continues: ▪ Bureaucratic oligarchy and judgment, but to the outside ministers, you still have this much proxy, is it still an excuse? But this thing called separation of powers, he comes up and stands in front of you, and you have a playing field. He said, "Mr. Prime Minister." What's the difference in forces? That, of course, was a sad observation. No expected political personalities, no major media pencils, still haven't been able to make a statement or make a statement. But the separation of forces is extremely important. What do you mean? Montesquieu explains the best Montesquieu, and I read from Montesquieu: "A force is full unless it meets another force of its own kind. Because it's constant with an experience that everyone who has power can be inclined to abuse it and go on until it finds a limit to its strength. Even virtue is in need of restraint. Says Montesquieu; born 1689, died 1755. Of course, Montesquieu didn't invent it, it's an evolution of the legal philosophy. When you look back, there is a history in the philosophy of the law that goes all the way back to Aristotle: Thomas of Akino, Ibn Haldun, Machiavelli, Jonh Bodin, Hobbes, Jonh Lock, Jean Jacques Rousseau. Is that always philosophy? No. In universal sources of law, these are the bodies of the Hititian Laws, about 3500 B.C. - Ahmad, you're a lawyer, you have to know that - Hammurabi Laws, 2500 B.C.E., they've always talked about an obstruction of power. Magna Carta, Dutch Declaration of Independence, Bill of Rights, British Declaration of Human Rights 1689, along with Montesquieu, is the same as her birth. There's a Virginia Bill of Rights, see, since you're a model of America in everything. What does it say in the 1776 Virginia Bill of Rights? ▪ Laws, executive and judicial forces should be separated and determined. (Virginia, 1776 years, and, of course, there should be a statement to the press here, saying that Virginia Human Rights Declaration: one of the most powerful strongholds of freedom is freedom of the press. There are 1789 French Civil Rights Declarations. See what it says: there is no constitution in a society where rights are not secured, there is no separation of forces. The United States Constitution of 1787, if you are building a new constitution, for example, this is the first document in the constitutional dimension of the separation of forces of the American Constitution. The 1840 Constitution of France, even the German Imperial Constitution, calls for separation of forces. Now, while that's the case, of course, the Turkish legal system hasn't fallen behind, and in the process, we have very important fortresses in evolution. Look, friends, the Constitution of 1876 -- the first material Constitution -- is ours and our form of Constitution -- what does Article 86 say? There are times when the separation of forces in 1876 is involved in life and execution, but the judiciary is always, as in our 1876 Constitution, free of intervention. We have 24 Constitutions. 21 is troubled, there is a Parliamentary government. In the 24 Constitution, the 54th Amendment states that the judges are defiantly and uncompromising in the judgment and judgment of the Council of Ministers, but are subject to the rule of the Law. Our 61 Constitutional Court is already magnificent. Because you don't love him, I'm not talking about the law, the administration, the separation of the judge, in the Constitution of 61. You don't love him. But, friends, with these documents, the dissolution of forces is so important that it provides for your existence, the existence of the House. So far, nothing important has come from the big press pens or political figures. Friends, Minister of Justice Sadullah Ergin recognized the danger very correctly and rightly, and made a statement, saying that this has been said since the past. As stated in our Constitution, administrative judiciary is a rule of law, but there have been complaints that there have been occasional checks -- listen well -- that's what the Prime Minister's statements are about. I think he's trying to round it up. Sadullah Ergin again. - He's trying to get the Prime Minister's very big explanation for this. I don't think there will be a problem if the principle of separation of forces is fully implemented. I also feel that these words have been said within this scope. He says, "He feels the need to protect the Prime Minister. " The attitude of Sadullah Ergin is correct because he is trying to recover. It's a huge vehicle that's been knocked over. Friends, we understand that in the new constitutional studies, the separation of forces will be discussed, that you will go towards the union of forces. And even though the 2010 referendum in Turkey was designed for justice, it means it's not enough. So either the Prime Minister is confused about this, and it's his duty to enlighten everyone, all the leaders and the press, or it's not the Prime Minister's confusion, it's the intention. If it's intentional, the Prime Minister won't listen to anyone. If all AKP MPs don't hear from politics and the press, it's your duty, my friends. Tell the Prime Minister what this is all about, tell him the danger of this job, so that if there's confusion or malice, it's over. Because if, in particular, the independence of the judiciary -- under the rule of separation of powers -- is translated into a bird by the 2010 constitutional referendum, but is still not seen as sufficient, the Constitutional Court shall make the control of the legislature, and the Court shall conduct the control of the government. In some way, you can't say that if you still call it "management control," or "legality control," because you added it to the 125th article in 2010, you said: "In no way, this authority cannot be used in the form of proper control in any way." You put matter in the Constitution. However, if you do not see enough and especially the Prime Minister does not see enough of the Constitution as a joke, then Turkey is under serious threat. It's your job to fix this problem, and the plague is on everyone... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...then it'll be really bad. My respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0119par0255	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0120par0256	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0119par0257	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0120par0258	Mr. Speaker, especially our group president, has misinterpreted the statement of separation of relevant forces with our Prime Minister, and his name...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0119par0259	Why did he misinterpret it? The Prime Minister's Konya speech has been repeated by the press.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0120par0260	The Prime Minister expressed confusion. He's become a reader of intent. Sir, I want to explain, according to 69.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0119par0261	Mr. Aydın, I don't see any bullying here, but I'll give you two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0121par0264	Mr. Aydın, didn't the Prime Minister speak yesterday? What do you want?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0119par0265	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0122par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mr. President, of course, the speaker went all the way to King Hammurabi, king of Babylon. First of all, let's say that our Prime Minister has no doubts or doubts about the term "dissolution of powers."
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0123par0270	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0122par0271	As a fully absorber of democracy, he gave a speech expressing the full implementation of the separation of forces.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0124par0272	Come on, you don't even believe that.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0122par0273	See, he says in his speech: I haven't been able to make these city hospitals in six years. Of course, there will be legislation, execution, judgment, and forces. These forces, each organ has to do its job in its own best without interfering in each other's field. For six years I've been building these city hospitals. But the judiciary, bureaucratic oligarchy, decides where I will build a hospital, decides when I will do it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0125par0274	Is the capital too tight for you?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0122par0275	Of course, all the work and actions of the administration are subject to the supervision of the judiciary at the time of its execution. This audit, as the speaker put it, is, as our Minister of Justice put it, an audit of the law. Judgement will never be able to make a proper inspection. The executive authority will decide which province needs a hospital to be established; the executive decision will decide, and the decision will not be made. In which province, it will decide where to do it, how to conduct an institution. If there are legal problems here, of course, he'll do the audit. Which, Mr. Prime Minister, also means the presidential system. How can you be so unfair to a prime minister who's recommending the most strict presidential system, where the division of forces is applied the hardest? How can you be so unfair to a Prime Minister who absorbs the separation of forces? Dear friends, it's obvious what's been done since the power of the EC PARTY to ensure full independence of the judiciary. The steps we took at the referendum last 2010 are clear. Judgement is no longer anyone's front yard or backyard. Judgement should be in an independent and free position, but we say it should be a law-abiding audit. I pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0126par0279	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0126par0281	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0282	Mr. President, there are different meanings to what I'm saying. I want two minutes' promise.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0126par0283	No, what did he say to make a difference, sir?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0284	Sir, I read the Prime Minister's text. In the text, apparently, there's a disagreement.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0128par0285	Read the rest!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0126par0286	I said the same thing. I already said you told the Prime Minister to speak.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0287	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0126par0288	What's the big deal?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0289	Sir, he's declaring me wrong, I didn't say wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0126par0290	Here you are, Mr. Sky, for taunting, or not for bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0292	Thank you, thank you. Friends, it is only natural for you to enter the mode of Mr. Sadullah Ergin.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0129par0294	We're already there. There's nothing else. The Prime Minister says the same thing.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0130par0295	It means the same thing, the same expression.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0296	Here, it's not the urge to protect, it's the center of error. The Prime Minister's words are so clear here.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0129par0297	Why don't you read the rest of the lyrics?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0298	The separation of forces is a pain in the ass, he says.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0131par0299	The forces should be able to apply separation. It says, "Read the sequel."
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0300	What is the separation of forces? Legislation, execution, judgment. The text is clear here. The prime minister clearly mentions that he aims to abolish the separation.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0132par0301	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0131par0302	No, it's not like that. Read the rest.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0303	Neither Sadullah Ergin nor the Minister of Justice. I have the whole text. I downloaded it from the Doğan News Agency, it's all there.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0131par0304	I've got one, too.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0305	There's all the text. The Minister of Justice saw the danger. What the Prime Minister said was wrong. If he's wrong, the Prime Minister should apologize.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0131par0306	He's right. No, he wasn't wrong. Read the back, read the rest.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0307	...it's in his head -- he's got this idea, he's explained that will -- and if it is, it's not up to you to defend it, it's up to you to go and take the Prime Minister away from that wrong idea. Because, yes, in the United States of America, there is a presidential system, but that's where the separation of forces is applied. But look, the Prime Minister doesn't mean that kind of separation. In America, the Senate... is tendering, buying Chinese firms, canceling the trial.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0133par0308	Well, he's canceling it for us, too.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0309	Obama can't say anything. No, the Prime Minister says we're going to build health complexes in the city, they're blocking it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0134par0310	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0311	That's where the logic goes. Look, here's the thing: it looks like a mixed regime between the monarchy and the theocracy is being planned.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0135par0312	Well, is he on his knees or isn't he?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0313	A little monarchy, a little theocracy, a new regime of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0136par0314	Fascism, fascism!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0315	It's dangerous. It's not your duty to defend the Prime Minister against me, it's your duty to warn the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0137par0316	The Prime Minister doesn't need defense.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0127par0317	To be returned from this mistake...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0320	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0137par0321	Read it... read it... it's clear what it says.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0139par0322	Read the text...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0323	On matter...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0140par0324	Mr. President, both Sadullah Ergin and the vice president of the group have just given false information regarding the administrative judiciary. As a judge for 14 years, a prosecutor's office, if you'll excuse me, let me explain the gist of it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0325	That's out of the question, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0140par0326	Look, the government says we're going to build a government mansion here...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0327	Mr. Young, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0140par0328	Wait a minute, one sentence...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0329	Why are you raising your voice? Is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0140par0330	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from my position according to Article 60.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0331	And I'm not giving it to you. There is no such procedure, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0141par0332	He didn't find out...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0333	Yes, Nazmi Gür, the Van MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group to speak on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0142par0335	Mr. President, I'd like a statement from my position according to Article 60.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0336	No, it's out of the question. Mr. Gür, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0142par0338	Why do we have to teach these facts to the ignorant?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0143par0339	You're ignorant! You're ignorant! You're ignorant! You're ignorant!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0138par0340	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0144par0347	Mr. President, dear friends, I dedicate this right to my dear brother, my dear comrade Van MP Kemal Aktas. [[A picture of Van MP Kemal Aktas was placed in front of the Court by the Minister.]] I am Kemal Aktaş. I was born in the 1958 Urban Suruç. I'm a Van MP. I've run with you to the election in Van. But like you, I've never been able to shake the hand of a citizen or shake the hand of a voter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0145par0350	Oh, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0144par0351	Mr. President, please give my five minutes to Mr. Kamer. You take my five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0145par0352	You guys talk.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0144par0353	Show some respect, then.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0146par0354	You're right.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0144par0355	Dear friends, I am Kemal Aktaş. I was chosen to receive 65 thousand votes in Van. I couldn't shake the hand of a citizen like you in this election, I couldn't listen to your choices, their troubles, their problems like you, but from the heart -- I made a promise to them -- no matter where we were, no matter where we were, I made a promise to them, and I said: "O people, I have put up your struggle for freedom, your struggle for rights and law, your struggle for equality, and I will fight for you." Dear friends, I am Kemal Aktaş in a cell in Diyarbakır Type D High Security Prison. Of course I don't count my days in this cell; I watch you in this cell, I watch Turkey, I watch the world. My ears, my eyes are open, my heart is open. Maybe I have a better chance of watching the whole process than you do. Of course, I wouldn't want to be behind bars. Of course, I didn't run for office, I didn't run for Congress. Because we've been here for three and a half years in prison, without the right to defend ourselves in our own native language, because of a political genocide case imposed on us. We don't know what we're accused of. Yeah, well, we're in a law state, and we don't know what we're being accused of, especially in a place where the law should be superior, and especially in a place where the judiciary should be independent, and we, the people on trial for the TK cases, the MPs, don't know what we're being accused of, why we're being accused of. When you open our files and look, you'll never see anything of evidence. Our phone calls, illegal wiretaps, and nothing but a stack of illegal paper scraps that the D.A.'s been stacking up over and over again. So, why are we in here? So, why are they keeping us inside? So why are they keeping us from serving the public? No doubt, these are the questions that need to be answered. I just told you, I got 65 grand for the Van people. The AKP received 171,000 votes in the van. If I alone, by preferential vote of my people, just by saying that the AKP has received 7 per cent of the vote, you can easily see that the will of the people is actually handcuffed and the will of the people is put in the cells. He is indeed a disgrace to you all. The fact that we have eight MPs, elected by the will of the people, the MPs who are supposed to be in Parliament, is in a country outside of Turkey that is not ruled by democracy. My dear friends, my dear comrades, I, Kemal Aktaş, have no doubt tried to share with you my feelings, my thoughts, from time to time, to participate in legislature activities. For example, through my group, I give parliamentary questions, I give some research proposals, but as soon as we sit in this line, like you, we will find a chance to fight for a fair and independent judiciary, to democratize Turkey, to establish the rule of law. My dear friends, I undoubtedly, as Kemal Aktaş, am in control of Turkey's agenda, following Turkey's agenda, whether we are in prison or in prison with great sensitivity. I couldn't be with my people during the earthquake in Van. You even kept me from sharing the pain with my people. I couldn't shake the hand of the people I voted for, give my condolences to the people I voted for. I couldn't help the people I voted for during this earthquake, but my heart, my heart, was always with the people of Van, with the Vans. Dear friends, without a doubt, we try to monitor all the events in Turkey with all its nudity, all the things that bleed our hearts. Most important of all, the Roboski massacre, no doubt. Perhaps you'll say something else, but the nation is a wound that bleeds in the hearts of us, us Kurds, all of us, all of us, and we'll do everything in our power to make sure that this massacre in Uludere will never bind the shell that we call "Roboski" -- that we call "Roboski." Whether we're in seven dungeons or in seven-door dungeons, our hearts will continue to bleed for Roboski. Dear friends, surely you can call the 20th century of Turkey also the century of the cataclysms. For example, the Dersim massacre, the Zilan massacre, the Maras massacre, the Chorum massacre, the Sivas massacre, and eventually the last Roboski massacre. My heart beats against my people, my heart beats for the people of Zilan, my heart beats for the people of Maras, my heart beats for the people who were massacred in Chorum, my heart burns for the people who were burned alive in Sivas.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0147par0363	Look at the headscarfs, and look at the headscarfs.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0148par0364	Doesn't it burn for those who die in terror? Doesn't it burn for those who die in terror?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0144par0365	Dear friends, surely, our hearts are burning for all men. We just got word today that two more soldiers killed themselves in an hour. So, have you ever asked, does your conscience not ache, why do our soldiers, Mehmet-chiks, commit suicide one by one? Did you ever ask him that?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0149par0366	Did you go to the chieftains and ask them?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0144par0367	Did you really ask why Mehmet would put a bullet in his head, why would Mehmet-chik commit suicide? One of them now struggles with death in Diyarbakir. Come on out and tell me, why do soldiers commit suicide one by one? Is this not war syndrome? Don't you think the children of the poor Turkish people you forced to fight had a great syndrome? Dear friends, my heart beats with my people, even if I am in seven gates as Kemal Aktaş, for the unity and brotherhood of the Turkish and Kurdish people. I salute you all with love and respect. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] You can give my minute to Mr. Kamer.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0150par0372	Thank you. Tülin Erkal Kara has asked for a statement on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0151par0375	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on Article 12 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I wish the negotiations to be good for our country, for our nation. The economic crisis in Europe and America, which began in 2008, remains effective. Turkey is the least affected country in such a crisis environment. In the words of our Prime Minister, this crisis is in Turkey's hands. The integration of our people in Europe, that country's economic and social life, is still a problem. As the EC PARTY, we have been working hard on the economic and social integration of our citizens abroad since the day we came to power. In this context, the dual citizenship status of our citizens abroad is one of the main policies of our government. As Turkey, we regularly support our citizens there to invest and contribute to employment. Our citizens, who are economically integrated into the European Union, will have significant contributions to Turkey's integration into the European Union. Some of our European citizens have had to consider investing in Turkey due to the negative effects of the crisis. The positive process of economic developments in Turkey from 2002 to this side is that Turks abroad, especially those involved in trade, will increase their desire to assess their savings in our country. At the same time, we are receiving intense demands in this regard. While we rejoice at these requests, their investments in Europe by bringing in double citizenship, will be in the favour of our unemployed citizens in the countries in which unemployment is on the rise, it will also increase our power in political mechanisms in Europe, which many of our Turkish citizens know in examples -- they are in various decision-making mechanisms there, they are in a different position. The MPs, our ministers, our members of parliament, this number is growing, and it makes us very happy. Today, the European and American crisis is based on a financial crisis. Despite the fact that public financing debt in the European Union, a whole of values, has not exceeded 60 per cent of the GDP, many countries, including Germany, have also borrowed far more than that. Spain, Italy, Portugal and especially Greece are the top countries affected by the financial crisis. Although Turkey is not a member of the European Union, it is far below the 60 per cent debt rate set in Maastricht Kriteria. As of the end of 2012, our debt to the informal domestic product is expected to take place around 39 per cent. Compared to Europe, it is the best country to manage public financing and debt management. The stable management of the EC PARTY here and the decisive leadership of our Prime Minister are of great importance. I wish the 2013 budget was a blessing, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0152par0385	Thank you. Anyone who wants a word on his behalf...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0153par0387	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0152par0388	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0153par0391	I want to make a point. Now, today, we, the BDP Group, are speaking on behalf of our arrested MPs, and when we stand on the stand, we put pictures of our friends on the stand. We've just received information that when Mr. Hasip Kaplan and Mr. Nazmi Gür speak, Parliament censors the picture and only close-ups and shows the faces of our friends. Now, what we've learned from Parliament TV is that they say they're doing this because of the reaction from the party groups. Are you aware of all this as acting Speaker of the House? Also, the reactions to the group, please come out here and present them on the stand. In their own group, arrested MPs are currently in prison. I'd like to say that such a response does not suit the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I condemn my fellow lawmakers who react.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0154par0394	Thank you, Mr. Buldan, but so far, no congresswoman has reacted, and there have been talks.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0153par0395	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0154par0396	No, we're talking.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0153par0397	They called the parliament TV and showed their reaction.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0154par0398	That's another matter. That's a different matter, but the MPs here didn't react.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0155par0399	No, that wasn't a request.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0154par0400	Omar Faruz Öz, Malatya MP, has asked for a personal word.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0156par0401	Mr. President, just a moment... Mr. President, as acting Speaker, please call Parliament TV and correct this.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0154par0403	I'll let you know. I don't have to stop working to let you know. [[Continue]] Omer Faruk Öz, Malatya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0157par0413	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on Article 12 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your High Council. Members of parliament, despite the global economic crisis in the world and the growing of Turkey's economy, almost all of Europe is troubled, is appreciated by all of the world's countries. Prior to the AK PARTI, with rising taxes, inflation, with raises, with pro bono money, with our periodic economic crises, the fate of our economy has been changed by strong measures in the economy, by powerful policies, by our government's policies, and by the policies that promote and promote growth, of course, by the efforts of our industry, our businessmen, our producers, our producers. The new incentive system, which took effect earlier this year, was specifically intended to reduce the difference in development between regions to minimal. In the past ten years, the economy has achieved more success than ever before in the history of Turkey. When we look at this year's employment data, we see that despite the growth of working-age populations, the job force turnout has risen and unemployment has dropped. The unemployment figures, which fall back to 9%, are the data on employment, the expression that incentives are reaching its goal. In this development of employment, there is no doubt that the impact of incentives and support programmes is great. Both investment incentives and employment supports have contributed greatly to the development of our industry. Of course, the influence of Law No. 5084 is of great importance. If we were to sum it up this way: in 2002, the organized industrial zones of 175 were operating today at 265... at 11.395 parcels, while the number today reached the level of 42 thousand. In these parcels, in 2002, the number of jobs was around 414 thousand, while that number reached 1,200,000 today. In 2002, 312 industrialists served in Malatya, my constituency, and today the number has risen to 934. Again, in our industry, about 12,000 jobs in 2002 reached 27,000 today. Here, the total investment share of the textile is around 15 per cent, while the employment contribution is around 51 per cent. Now, we know that the incentive system 5084 came into effect in 2004, and it was extended again in 2009. But right now, the SGK employer's share of 5084 is being met by our government -- which is a burden to our employers. At the point where this is being extended again, our manufacturers, our industrialists, have a huge demand. I believe that from the day our government was founded to this day, its support at the point of reducing the burdens on employment will take place at exactly or at the exact point where it must continue with a different understanding. Malatya is located in the 4th district of Malatya in the new Propulsion Act, which took effect in 2002. Investments in organised industrial areas will also benefit from the privileges of investments in the 5th district. We invite investors to invest in Malatya, the capital city of Malatya, especially in textiles, food, mining and many sectors, wherever they are in our country, to invest in Malatya, and at this point we declare that we will provide all the convenience that we can as all Malatians can. The fact that our national income has tripled, that exports have increased fourfold, did not just happen when IMF borrows money from the IMF and lends money to the IMF. None of this, none of these accomplishments are random. The key to success is to intend, to make decisions, and above all, with determination, to apply them with stability. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our country the best budget of 2013, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0423	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0159par0424	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0425	Mr. Buldan, the Parliament has been instructed to do its regular broadcast.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0160par0426	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0159par0427	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0428	Yes, Mr. Aslanoglu, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0159par0429	In his speech, Mr. Buldan says the Parliament did not give his talks about his imprisoned MP friends today because of the group's objections. We, the CHP Group, have never done anything like this, we don't do it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0431	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0161par0433	Mr. President, in the same way, the National Movement Party Group has never had any contact with the TBMM TV. It doesn't matter what we say when it doesn't suit them.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0162par0434	Then we know who did it!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0435	And I've already told you that the congressman doesn't react here.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0163par0436	And since we didn't...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0437	I'm telling you, I already told you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0164par0438	We talk all over the place. We have nothing to fear for him, Mr. President. We'll talk on the stand, we'll talk in the square, we'll talk at the station, we'll talk at the bar, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0158par0440	Thank you. Yes, Uður Bayraktutan Artvin MP who wants a word in a row on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0165par0443	Mr. President, I have a request for my position.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0166par0444	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 12th article of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your high council. In this talk, I will try to bring an issue with Artvin to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and public opinion. As it is known, in the past few months, there has been a tender for energy, for mines, my dear friends. We've got trouble at Artvin's and Cerattepe's, and you've got this shit all over us, and I don't know how we're gonna get rid of it. There's a contract for this. I've tried to explain this before in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, but I couldn't explain it to the Minister. When this tender was introduced, we said that all the conditions for tampering with the tender were in this tender condition, and they didn't listen to it. Look, my dear friends, in the tender requirement, the firm that can receive this tender has to have 10,000 tons of blaster metal production facility. Again, there's a statement in Article 2 of this tender, which says that the amount of bluster metal copper mentioned above by the winner must be produced in a facility in the country. There is a condition. Now, so far, everything's normal. Before this tender, I tried to warn the Minister many times, and I said: "Look, this contract condition describes one firm. I asked the Minister a written question. Our written question was: is there a facility in Turkey that produces 10,000 tons of blaster copper in this way, and who does it belong to? I'm explaining the minister's response here: there is one facility that is actively producing blister copper as of 16/02/2012. This facility, which is owned by Blister Asş, produces copper, is within the central district of Samsun. Before the tender was made, I told the Minister: "Look, it's obvious who will receive this contract." Mr. Minister said to me in response to his response: "This contract was not received by Bakr." It was true, Copper didn't buy the meat, but the partnerships between the Autonomous Company, the Bridge Dam in Adana, the Menge Dam and other places along with ENERJlSA. I mean, since there was a concern from the notary that I would detect it, my dear friends took the contract over to another firm. Look, this contract is a package contract. I said, the package has been given as a tender. And then, when we explained our concerns about this tender, there was another development, we said, "Mr. Secretary, you can't make this tender. Why can't you? Look, there's a legal reason for this, which is that there's no incentive for these projects unless the decision is made -- no approval, no permit, no building, no application, no competition can be done for the project in any way. It is said that it is not necessary to assess the environmental impact. Despite this ruling in the CED regulations, the Minister didn't listen to us, he made the tender here. Immediately after that, more than 250 people from Artvin have filed a lawsuit against our organization, Rize Management Court, and Rize has demanded that the Court stop running it, and our motion has been denied. The motion was denied. I'm reading the decision made by the Tripoli District Administration Court: my dear friends: in this case, it is clear that it was found in a very sensitive area due to its geographical position and the geological state of the region, and that the international contracts mentioned above, the Constitutional Court's decision, which is remembered under the Environmental Law and the CED regulations, have been ruled out that the mining operation which should be subject to the EED investigation has been initiated in order to be ignored. What does the court say, my dear friends? He says, "Why didn't you take CED?" Who's he talking to? He's telling the Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. This decision was issued to the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources last month. A month is not over, let me make it clear, but despite that, the Minister of Energy and Resources has taken no steps, my dear friends. I'm also complaining about this to my fellow lawmakers in the AKP Group, to all the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to all the Artvinians, to the Minister of Energy here on the bench of Parliament. He didn't make the decision to stop this execution, Mr. Secretary. I'm calling to Mr. Secretary: Either make the decision to stop this execution, the company is still working there, or you or the Artvins will. Look, I'm screaming from here to all of Turkey, please make the decision to stop running, Mr. Secretary. Look, I've asked you a question before: "What companies do you travel with?" I said, "What companies are involved?" I don't go into details. From the bottom of my heart, my dear friends. That's why I'm complaining to Parliament. I said, "Don't make this tender, it's a disability." I'm afraid the Minister didn't listen to us. You know why he wouldn't listen? We don't have a beard, precious Council, if we had a beard, he'd listen. So, once again, Mr. Secretary, I warn you, either stop the operations of this construction company or the Artvinians will stop it, and I'll make it very clear from here. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0167par0457	Thank you. Mr. Young, you have a few words. It'll be short.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0168par0462	Mr. President, thank you. Sir, we've just been given false information about the administrative court here. Now, Mr. Recep says: "The forces are a barrier to dissolution. " Sadullah Ergin explains to him: "The administrative judiciary does not control the law, it does the rights. For example, we'll set up the government mansion here, where the administrative court says, "Don't set up there." Look, guys, I've been to a county, the state hospital is being taken from the center of the city, brought to the mountainside field of an AKP MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0169par0465	Tell me! Tell me the name of the province!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0168par0466	Then, for example, he brings the government to build his mansion in a landslide, where engineers report that, either this is a slippery area. I mean, you still have to have a little respect for the law to understand the judgment, to understand the law. Mr. Recep says there are 326 MPs...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0170par0469	Thank you, Mr. Young. [[Continue]] The question-answer will be carried out on the matter for ten minutes. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0171par0478	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Finance Minister: Recently, at the point of responding to needs in Adana and its districts, electricity, roads, water, incentive loans have been said to be a constant problem. Is it political custody, or is there no money in the Treasury? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0172par0481	Thank you. Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0173par0483	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the largest share of budget revenues is tax revenues. In 2013, you predict a 14 per cent increase in tax revenues. This ratio is above the rate of growth and inflation. What tax pens do you intend to increase in order to increase tax revenues by 14 percent? Another question is, what percentage of the tradesmen operating in our country owe to the finances? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0174par0487	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0175par0489	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, we are the country that puts the highest interest on credit cards after Brazil and Indonesia, with a 2.3 per cent interest rate. Although you say that the economic indicators are good, isn't that a contradiction to the high interest the banks have imposed? Do you have any interest in credit cards? My second question: Many of our citizens have applied to the ECHR because of the oppressive policies and unlawful practices that you implemented during your rule of power, and Turkey has been convicted in many compensation cases. For that, did you set aside such a share of the budget in 2013? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0176par0493	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0177par0495	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: When we look at the distribution of these public investments according to the provinces, we see that the province of Adana was third or fourth in 2001 and 2002. However, the period that began during your rule in 2003 and 2004 takes place at the point of receiving public investments at 40; 50; even at the end of Turkey's population. When you look at the government's other practices in Adana, do you think there is a policy of punishment against Adana? Again, Mr. Secretary, there have been applications for these 2/B properties, but now that we've seen you here, the citizens are looking for you in great numbers -- although they've applied, they can't really get them. I've told you before. When you review the delegations you sent over our objections, they've dropped by close to 50 percent, but when we meet again, they say: "It's been determined so high that if we lower it any more -- the actual value is low, but -- we'll find it difficult to express it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So there's a wrong app here.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0178par0500	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0179par0502	Thank you, Mr. President. What is the reason for the 2013 budget for an increase in bank insurance treatment taxes by 39.5%, according to the 2012 budget? Is your government willing to encourage excessive consumption by lending money to banks? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0180par0505	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0181par0507	Minister, the source from Turkey's budget to RD is 0.7 per cent of our GDP in 2011. We are number 22 in terms of the world's budget for RD, and we are number 41 in proportion. Do you believe we can be one of the top 10 economies in the world at this level when our RD budget is like this? If you don't believe it, what do you think our rate and rate of RD should be in order to become one of the world's 10 largest economies?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0180par0508	Thank you. Last question, Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0182par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there are questions from graduates of the disability staff at the Ministry of Finance, and I'd like to direct them to you: 1) Do you plan to remove the disabled from the staff or open an upgrade? 2) Is there a particular reason why disabled people are especially employed in the auxiliary services class? 3) What will happen to disabled undergraduates who work at your ministry? 4) Do you intend to discriminate against the disabled in public housing? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0183par0517	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0519	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we can't neglect any of our knowledge. This public investment thing is getting in my way everywhere I go. Dear friends, in the public past, let's say that if some of our provinces have solved the infrastructure problem, for example, if there's a highway, there's a railroad -- for example, if there's a port there -- if there's big investments there, then, of course, as of many years ago, these investments can be at a different point. Now, our Adana province is often brought up by our dear friends. Because I used to be a Gaziantep MP, sometimes I went by land, and Adana has a first-class highway, so transportation infrastructure is very good, port city. If there are gaps in Adana's public transportation infrastructure, education infrastructure, health infrastructure, tell me, but in Turkey, of course, in the past, let's say that there are dams being built somewhere, the Ilisu Dam is being built. It's important to our country, we need to turn that water into energy. There's a lot of serious investment going on, but right now, there's a lot more investment going on in this investment, so to speak, we're not going to be on the right approach, dear friends. Now, if Adana really lacks something, come after the budget, we'll sit together, I'll help you, we'll pass it on to our other friends. But if there are no serious problems in infrastructure investments, education, health care, there is no investments just for the sake of reason. Therefore, there is no way for us to neglect Adana. Dear friends, in 2013, it's true, we predict a 14 percent increase in tax revenues. That's higher than an informal increase in GDP. Where's this coming from? I've told you before, we raised taxes in 2012. Taking into account the full reflection of these taxes we raised in 2013, the increase in tax revenues is below the deflater when you look at them, considering that BOTASH is going to start paying taxes on the year of the year, such as VAT, VAT, STV. The repulsor is about 9.5 per cent, and the increase in tax rates is slightly below 8 per cent. Hence, the increase in tax revenues in this sense is realistic. Now, how much of our business, how many are in debt, and I don't have a number in front of me, but if I do, I'll share it with you. 2.3 per cent interest on credit cards... dear friends, that's an upper limit. That's what the Central Bank is calling it. If interest is too low, the Federal Reserve can already pull down those limits. That's an upper limit. There's a lot of banks, they're competitive. But in many countries around the world, credit card interest is way above market interest, which is very common. Dear friends, appeals to the ECHR are not only due to shortcomings, errors, wrong practices during our administration. There are cases that have been going on since the 90s. So we need to look at it in that frame. I don't know how much budgets were earmarked in 2013, but we'll see if we can split it up. But since these are usually paid in terms of mortgage-related debts, there's a grant, but I don't think it's just an allowance for the ECHR. Again, areas 2/B, dear friends, if there's a problem in Adana, I'll call our Adana Bookkeeper right now and have them meet with our concerned friends, the owners. No, sir, we've set this price and we can't go under it. There's no such thing, is that possible?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0185par0529	Mr. Secretary, come, I'll show you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0530	The price will be realistic and we're looking for solutions. Look, I repeat, 2/B is not about income, income is secondary. Our goal, indeed, is to resolve a problem between citizens and the state. I'm stressing that, and my friends are probably taking notes. Now, the increase in BSMV is 39.5 per cent -- the immediate arrival of friends -- our hope for 2012 to happen is 5 billion 550 million, dear friends. Our estimate for 2013 is 6 billion 343 million liras, 14 per cent increase. So...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0186par0532	Not according to the start of the 2012 budget.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0533	But it's like, you know, when we look at the number of things that are happening, it's pretty...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0186par0534	Sir, the fact that it's 22 percent too much is 39.5%, sir. There's no point in trying to deny it, 39.5% is true.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0535	If you'll excuse me, I'll answer the other questions. Now, Mr. Erdem, they asked a very good question. Now, Mr. Erdem, it's really low RD, but...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0186par0537	Akçay, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0538	No, no, I'm past your question, I've answered it, so if you'll excuse me, I'll move on to the other questions.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0186par0539	You didn't answer!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0540	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, just give me one more minute... it always stops when it comes to Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0187par0541	Please, Mr. Secretary, finish on time. I won't extend the time.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0184par0542	Now, we're not really at the desired point in RD spending, but when you look at the reasons for this.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit02spe0187par0544	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Please, Mr. Secretary, we don't have that kind of practice, sir. Yes, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0187par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 44th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with the Central Management Budget Act in 2013. The commission and the government are in place. Other provisions concerning income and expenses ADADDE 13- (1) loans for the first article (f) of Article 51 (f) and Article 3/7/2005 of Article 5393 of City Code 5393 (f) under the terms of Article 5393 (f) the state private administrations and municipalities' advanced technology and large-size infrastructure investments, under the proposal of the Ministry of Development, are under the limit of Article 5393 and Article 5393 of the First Amendment (d) under the first article of the First Amendment (d). However, loans to finance projects supported by private administrations, municipalities and companies with which they have more than 50 per cent of their own capital and pre-accession fiscal co-operation with the European Union and loans from the Bank of Provinces for jobs under SDUAP are not required to meet the debt limit. (2) The company, which has a share of the treasury, can be reserved for all or some of the other assets of the companies and banks that correspond to the Treasury, and/or for damage to the unpaid capital of the business, the company and the bank. The Minister of the Treasury Undersecretary is responsible for these transactions; he is the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for registering private transactions in the State accounts of the Treasury under the recommendation of the Undersecretary of Treasury, and on the one hand comes the budget that corresponds to these transactions, and on the other hand, he is the Minister of Finance to save funds for the relevant budget of the Undersecretary of Treasury. (3) The Bank of Turkish Export Loans may be subject to the Bank's political risk-related collections and the Bank's operating profits, which correspond to the Treasury, and some of its extraordinary backup statements, including the Bank's political risk and/or unpaid capital. The Minister of the Treasury Undersecretary is responsible for these transactions; he is the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for registering private transactions in the State accounts of the Treasury under the recommendation of the Undersecretary of Treasury, and on the one hand comes the budget that corresponds to these transactions, and on the other hand, he is the Minister of Finance to save funds for the relevant budget of the Undersecretary of Treasury. (4) The institutional revenues specified in the relevant legislation of the Law No. 5018 and the general budget are collected as general budget revenues from the administrations that were co-authorised before 2006. (5) All incomes from the age of electricity rights and facilities are recorded in the general budget as part of the Law on Electric Production, Messages, Distribution and Trade of Institutions outside Turkey's Electricity Corporation No. 4/12/1984. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Hakan Sergeantoğlu is an MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0188par0013	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the 13th article of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act, which I hereby salute your grand delegation. At the very beginning of my words, I hope our budget will be good for our country and our nation. Members of parliament have also voiced criticism from opposition party MPs, as lawmakers have stressed Turkey's change, transformation and normalisation over the past ten years, as lawmakers from our group have voiced criticism since the start of budget talks. In short, there's nothing we haven't talked about, nothing we haven't talked about in this process. Therefore, I would like to address you today with a different approach. As a friend of yours who grew up and grew up in Balkan geography, I would like to consider the process in Turkey over the last ten years from within this geography, from the perspective of our brothers there. Members of parliament, in the region where we had to leave this year after the 100th anniversary of the Balkan Wars, over the generations, when they opened their eyes almost every day, they turned their faces to Turkey and paid attention to a statement from Turkey, waiting for their brothers from Turkey to touch them, living with the confidence Turkey had given them in the countries in which they lived. In between, they heard a faint sound, and they were touched, but at no time did they feel what they had felt since 2002. They have not embraced each other with today's enthusiasm, and they have never lived so securely in the countries they live in. Indeed, with the policies and mechanisms developed by the EC PARTI government on the region, we began to meet the expectations of our brothers and sisters living in the Balkans, and we embraced them. Look, today, thanks to the activities of TİKA, the President of the Turkish and Relative Community abroad and the Yunus Emre Institute, the construction of artifacts that are about to be destroyed around here has begun to show up again with a delicate attitude, with our Turkish echoes, distances getting shorter. Again, thanks to our organizations, the ruling communities in the region have changed their view of our profession, our culture, and our country. Congressmans, our government has not only taken care of our Balkan brothers, but has also taken care of the problems and demands of our brothers and sisters from this region who have left their home country behind with great difficulty. To give concrete examples of the steps taken in this regard, these brothers who first migrated to Turkey and took refuge in the homeland, unfortunately they did not have a residence permit in Turkey for years, and were forced to go abroad every three months in the face of their desperation. That's why our kinsmen couldn't plan for themselves and their children, so they're stuck in the middle. Even today, however, it is not possible to understand why this problem cannot be solved with a very simple arrangement. Finally, just a few months after the EC PARTY took over, these brothers were granted a long-term residence permit in Turkey. Again, in 1989 from Bulgaria, because of their assimilation policies during the Jivkov era, thousands of our family members had to give up all their rights and all their work in terms of social security as they migrated to Turkey. Thus, the pensions of our relatives have been lost. Many of them have fallen out of their hands, advanced in age, unable to work, and have sought a solution in the eyes of governments many years ago, but all the doors are closed to their faces. In contrast, the EC PARTI government has opened its way for our relatives to retire by borrowing their work in Bulgaria with a temporary clause added to Law 3201. As a result, about 36,000 of our family members have been retired. In addition, these brothers who were forced to emigrate from Bulgaria to Turkey, their advance to own a dwelling has not been returned to them in the previous period of power, despite their demands, but has been extradited through the value of the track values of the time when they invested it in the 5819th Law and 11,000 families, which were violated during our rule. Shouldn't we ask what law, what justice is appropriate, that the advance from those brothers who took refuge in the homeland of the migration should not be returned to them for years, even though their dwellings were not assigned to them?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0189par0024	The 57th government gave them all land. Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0188par0025	Congressmans, these are just three of the problems that have been addressed to our descendants during the reigns before us and solved by the AK PARTI power.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0189par0026	Ten cooperatives were established in my science.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0188par0027	In fact, we can't finish by counting the actions of our government to address the problems of our descendants who are still living in the Balkans and our brothers who have emigrated to Turkey. To those who put our foreign policy on the target of what is happening in the Balkans and around us today, our relatives in these areas do not see our government's foreign policy towards them from your perspective. They express their gratitude at every turn for our government's approach and express great pride in every environment in which they have confidence in our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0189par0028	Is that why they split it into 10 pieces?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0190par0029	Mr. Belen, please...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0188par0030	To sum it up, those who close their eyes only do it at night.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0189par0031	You're the one who closed your eyes.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0188par0032	With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget would be a blessing again, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0191par0034	Thank you. Sırrı Sakık, MP for the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0192par0038	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Just now, our friends, each one of them, who has not been in Parliament, have spoken on behalf of each MP today, but Parliament TV, for whatever reason, has imposed a censorship. We'd like to thank you for the notice of our Deputy Speaker and the fact that the groups are going out and condemning it. But, in the Ottomans, the game is not over, so I'm taking this Hatip Dicle. I'm going to speak on behalf of Hatip Dicle today. The preacher Tigris is a friend of mine who has been fighting for twenty-five years. The preacher Tigris is my companion on the road. We served time together, we served in Parliament together. From here, I salute all my friends who are in prisons, such as the Hazip, and the Hazip. (Applause from the ranks of the BDP) These are all our friends who push everything back to fight for democracy and freedom. We met in Parliament in 1991, after an alliance with Hatip Dicle and the People's Labour Party and the SHP. On this platform, the preacher said: "I and my friends are reading this text under the pressure of the Constitution, and there was an apocalypse in Parliament, and a lynching almost took place on the stand. Yet life has confirmed so much that the Orjip (the Constitution) was monotheist, and the Constitution was racist; there was only one people in the Constitution, and there was one Constitution that did not see the Turkish people, other peoples. That was what Hazip Dicle said that day, and that day we went on a long journey together, and we stayed together in prison for many years. Hatip Dicle spent ten years in prison, even more than ten years in Ankara's Ulucan prison. And when I said these things as Hatip Tigris... I could see what you didn't see that day. The price was high, and I had to pay the price, and I was a prisoner. It wasn't our choice, but you imposed it on us; it was our acceptance, it was our place above our heads, and we knew that for the freedom of the people, we knew that for the freedom of the peoples, we knew that the leadership had to pay the price in the struggle for freedom. My friends and I were happy to accept the price. By the year 1991, until 94, those cruel policies on our people were annoyed by us because we were constantly speaking in Parliament and on the international platform. With the March 4th operation -- actually March 2nd, but about 4 Marta -- they took me and Orhan Doğan out of the door of the Assembly. Our other friends stayed in parliament to protest this incident, and they did something so that they did not allow us to exercise the rights of the Constitution, the right to defend ourselves on the stand. Tansu Cirller, an actor of the political power of that time, and the Chief of Staff of the period, held hands -- even the Pills and Wrestlers of that time -- were clearly saying: "If they are not from Parliament, we will lynch them." They didn't give us the right to appeal, our right to defend on the stand. We've been through painful years, we've been arrested, there's no evidence. When we were coming out of evidence, for some reason, we were arrested, and the prosecutors went into the area, and they tried to provide evidence with helicopters. I was in prison for over a decade. When I got out, I could have chosen different areas, but I was a politician who believed in democratic ground, and I did politics, and today I'm under arrest at Diyarbakır Type D Prison. I'm running for June 2011, just like the rest of you. The Supreme Election Board vetoed my candidacy, vetoed the nomination of me and a few of my friends, and our people's response came, and after that, the Supreme Election Board decided that we could run again, unanimously. At that time, for us, two lawyers and our friend Sırı Sakek, who were in charge of these proceedings on the Supreme Election Board, were following this process, and they left, and we watched the veto of our friends together in the evening with a different picture, together in Diyarbakır Prison, and the decision was taken back, and you should actually thank these Kurds a thousand times, because it was a sign of your insistence on the democratic floor. People were on the street, İbrahim Oruç lost his life with police bullets because he told us not to block democratic channels in Bismil district of Diyarbakır. That's what the Kurds insisted on on on the democratic ground. I salute the resistance that Abraham fasted and all those who fought with him in these streets for freedom and democracy. Yes, we will be worthy of their struggle. Today, we continue this struggle in Diyarbakır Prison. I ran like you in 2011, and I was in prison, and my hands were tied, but our people and our friends and our fellow candidates who fought for freedom left their own constituency, and they worked my field one-on-one, and I got over 80,000 votes. When I received the vote, we immediately applied on my lawyer's recommendation on the municipal election board, and the county election board gave us our bench: ▪ President: Mehmet Atik Araz Member: Ömer Hakan Baştımar It's the 80 thousand games of the game. I'd like to invite a fellow officer from here. [[He has been sent to the MPs of the group, who have been called to the stand by the minister.]] I got 80 thousand votes. The county election board gave me my desk, but the dark hands are back on line. In the election we participated in as a bloc, we received 430,000 votes in Diyarbakır, the Justice and Development Party received 220 thousand votes, so the vote each MP received was worth 2.5 MPs. But for some reason, the ruthlessness of this system forced us to vote independently, to enter the elections independently, and we were elected by the will of the people, and the Supreme Election Board gave it to us. By violating the decision, in front of him, with one recklessness, he has annulled our decision. Now, I'm asking you, as Hatip Dicle, if I didn't have the right to be elected, why did you vote for me by the Supreme Election Board? If I didn't have the right to be elected, why did the county election board give me my office? Now, I would like to ask you from here and to your consciences: I have sacrificed my entire life for the freedom of these oppressed people, and today I am in prison, and I will tell you what I have been accused of, what I have been accused of, and what I have been accused of: I wanted democratic autonomy, I wanted a different government, I went to Damascus, I contributed to the truce process. At the suggestion of the late Ozal, I went to Damascus with a group of my friends, and Mr. Talabani and I turned a month of ceasefire in Damascus into an endless ceasefire process. That was all our sin. We were all there to keep the guns quiet. I heard that Mr. Talabani had a massive cerebral hemorrhage in prison today. In prison, me and the prisoners, we all wish Mr. Talabani well well, and pray for all the prisoners. May God give you health and health, for the coup of March 2nd was the coup of March because of such a process with Talabani. We and the group wish for immediate healing to Mr. Talabani. An important politician in the Middle East, Iraqi President and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...Turkish friend...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0193par0061	Thank you. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the Article.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0194par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Finance Minister often states that our country's tax burden is not as high as it seems. The main reason why we appear among non-tax-loaded countries is because the taxes on income and profit are very low in our country. This is clearly visible in OECD data. In our country, income and profit-related taxes are less than half the average of OECD countries. Turkey is among several countries considered tax paradise. It is clear that we are among the countries with high tax burdens in the direction of indirect taxes. Taxes on goods and services in our country are higher than the OECD average in illegal domestic revenues. We are seen among the highest-ranked OECD countries. In fact, the Finance Minister acknowledges and acknowledges that indirect taxes are high within our country's tax revenues, and that tax-free taxes are not enough. In fact, half of the business is not taxing. Against the word of a businessman, Mr. Finance Minister, in May this year on a national television channel, reminding that the tax system in Turkey is mainly indirect, ▪ The business community where we receive less taxes is taxed, rent, interest revenues and non-registered. That's the whole point. Unfortunately, this is a summary of the ten-year tax policy of AKP power. The AKP government receives less taxes from the bosses, less taxes from the contractor, less taxes from the lenders, loan sharks, but with indirect taxes, it's kicking the crap out of our small and fixed-income citizens. He cuts off the welfare of the SMEs; he receives higher taxes from the farmer's fertilizer, from the diesel; he taxes even for minimum wage; he receives a thousand kinds of taxes, tuition, and documents from the mover. The AKP government says I'm going to spread the tax. These days he's found truckers and he's broken down. Look, I'll tell you about what happened in Iconium over the past month: tax inspectors have audited our Sejdişehir district, found that mineral oil is used as fuel in transport activities; reports of truckers have been written and tax fines reached up to $13.5 billion in old money. From what I've been told, that's the case with about 20 truckers. Truckers are charged with tax evasion. And why is that? Sir, they caused a tax loss using a size 10 oil instead of diesel. What are they supposed to do, use a lot of fat for pleasure? They have to. Even so, they can barely earn their bread. The AKP government is giving tax-free diesel to its owners. One-third of them sell cheap diesel abroad; they don't see the mover, the trucker, and they don't see the tax fines. During budget talks on the commission, I delivered the situation to Mr. Secretary, and presented him with an example of a report. Mr. Secretary said there was no inspection instructions for the trucker's shop, that he would have the situation examined and if so, he would help. You know what? There's been a small reduction in the tax fines of truckers on their way to negotiate, but the truckers who got the receipt are in shock. Because the fines are due to 2007, the debt was downloaded at 118 per cent delay interest, and the debt exceeded twice as much. How are the truckers gonna pay for this? He can't pay for his truck if he sells it. It's a shame about these people, isn't it? You're putting out the stoves. Mr. Secretary, please stand by and help these truckers. If necessary, let's add a temporary clause to the package bill, which is expected to be discussed tomorrow, and as the National Movement Party, we're ready to support it. The AKP government is taking on truckers and movers as if they are the highest-paid citizens in this country. Traffic police turn the trucker, write the ticket; the Transport Ministry turns the trucker, fines him; the financiers see the trucker again. What is the problem with the AKP government? Does he have a problem with truckers? What do you want with these strawberry truckers? Truckers are burdened, not burdened, victims of renewing authority documents. Since it is virtually impossible for them to observe the terms set in Article 18 (18) under the regulation, many movers face a cancellation of their authorization, suffering from car examinations. Expensive diesels, high taxes, a thousand kinds of requested documents, and lack of employment have bored the truckers to death. Out of unemployment, truckers can only work one third. Trouble trucker can barely get the bread to his house, he's carrying the burden. Don't be so hard on these people, don't be so cruel. Mr. Secretary, come to your senses. "The strong balance sheets of the household and the banking sector in the coming period will be two important factors to support the growth of the economy, the domestic demand and therefore the growth of the economy," the esteemed lawmakers said in a budget speech. That's what he said. Will you look at the AKP government's prospects for next term? The citizen will be in debt, thus increasing the rate of domestic demand and growth. Alas, our country! The deficits are increasing, growth is growing, industrial production is falling, unemployment is increasing, companies are falling, closing companies are increasing, protesting bonds and promissory checks are exploding, but the AKP government is not looking for solutions to these problems. How can I increase my production, so that I can increase the income of a citizen? He has no purpose, no problem. He's waiting for the citizen to be more in debt. Mr. Secretary, for God's sake, what is so powerful about the balance sheet of the household? Don't you realize how far down the savings rate you people have been? According to the Central Bank reports, our country's household savings rate was 12.2 per cent in 2007, while by 2011 it declined to 7.5 per cent. According to 20 per cent income in the household, the savings of 3 per cent of the income group -- 60 per cent of the citizens -- are negative; their income does not cover their expenses. Citizens who have not been able to make a living on their income have already been loaded into bank consumer loans and credit cards and their total debt exceeds 250 billion liras. According to 2002, credit card debt increased 16.5 times, and consumer credit debt increased 81 times. The citizen's interest payments have increased by 12 times. How long will the citizen be in debt? Mr. Secretary, you're making a positive assessment of the household's obligations by comparing them to some countries based on the GDP. But notice, in our country, only 34 per cent of a citizen's 250 billion-dollar consumer loan and credit card debt is a housing and transportation loan. So the majority of citizens' debts are short-term debts. If you compare with other countries over this distinction, you'll see the truth better. The majority of the households in our country who owe consumer loans to banks are paid workers in the lower income group. According to the Central Bank reports, 52.8% of the households owed consumer loans as of June 2012 are paid employees. That's how the government makes employees in debt, how it drags them out. Those with 38.8 per cent of the household, which also has consumer loan debt, and less than 1,000 lira, make 25 per cent of it between $1,000 and $2,000, which means that two thirds of those with consumer loans have less than $2,000 in income. Which income will the citizen be more indebted to? Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0195par0084	Yes, thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aykan Erdemir is an MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0196par0087	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Assembly and our citizens, and our students who were subjected to the attack of 2,000 police officers in the ODTU. So far, from this bench of the great Parliament, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been voiced many commendations and many criticisms. I don't think it makes much sense to repeat praise or criticism over the time assigned to me. What can you say in ten minutes to a Prime Minister who's heard, heard, and seen everything in favor of praise and criticism? What can we say to those ears that have been closely guarded against others? But I also know that he has everything, he has everything, and he rules everything, and he falls into the house of the powerful who seem to have it, the sadness of poverty and loneliness. Every powerful desire in the crowd of Iqbal-seeking moths is a word of sincerity and heart. As a member of parliament who is aware of this deprivation and loneliness, I would like to share a letter from this bench today with the Prime Minister. It's a sincere, kind and friendly letter that doesn't pursue Iqbal, does not refuse to speak the truth. It's a letter that says that it's not about scribbles, criticism, weariness. It's a letter that speaks of our common problems, the fundamental problems of our country and our economy, guiding us in good faith. As long as we know how to listen. Mr. Prime Minister, In my letter, there were 12 basic issues before you, and they will be after you. But I do know that if one day our country's problems are to be resolved, we have to act today. We need to develop solutions to the structural problems of our economy, other than the dynamics and conflicts of everyday politics. To overcome these structural problems, we have to implement social agreements, long-term national policies. You know, the way to an agreement is through consultation and negotiation. Don't just know, come and listen for once. 1) The Mid-Income Trap: Mr. Prime Minister, the Republic of Turkey has been trapped in the middle income trap for the past 50 years. In 1960, there were 101 mid-income countries in the world. As of 2008, 13 of these countries were able to rise to high income by getting rid of the middle income trap. Unfortunately, Turkey has failed to become one of the 13 countries. We've got a long way to go on this road, but our last 50 years of pace isn't enough. We haven't been able to implement the climate of freedoms, structural reforms and the understanding of governance required by the innovative and competitive economy. We can't compete with developed countries in innovative products that require high skill levels and creativity. In hard-working products, we can't compete with low-income countries where labor is cheap. We can't move from low-velocity goods to high-end goods. 2) The Demographic Opportunity Window: One of the most important risks waiting for us is that the demographic window of opportunity is closing. The slowdown of our population growth has revealed a demographic conjonk, described as a window of opportunity in front of Turkey. The demographic transition process presented a window of workforce supply, which is the rapid growth of the working age, as the rate of population increases, but unfortunately, Southeast Asian countries took advantage of this window of opportunity, and we failed to do the same. We haven't been able to implement regional policies, urban policies, social policies and labour-force efficiency policies. Therefore, we have not been able to give our citizens a better and more qualified life. As the window of opportunity closes, our work will undoubtedly be even more difficult. 3) The Climate of Freedoms: We can only reach an investment climate that will allow us to transition to the information economy through the climate of freedoms. Basic rights and freedoms such as freedom of thought and expression, freedom of press, academic freedoms and freedom of enterprise are no longer a matter of pure political freedoms. These freedoms have become a direct influence on economic performance and competitiveness. Freedoms do not come to countries and cities without climate, with dynamic sectors of the economy of information, investors, qualified labor force and creative classes. Enterprises in oppressive countries are having great trouble finding strategic partners, venture capital, international funds and RD co-operation opportunities. 4) Global Value Chains: Global values and production chains pass Turkey in tangent. Turkey's name is not included in the 2011 Supply Chain Managers Report. The first reason is that we don't have a comprehensive and visionary industrial policy. The second reason is that it is impossible in Turkey to predict the economic rationality of political authority's decisions and how to change them. In today's economy, the question now is which countries will be chosen as their design base. Turkey is neither a design base nor a production base. 5) Low Saving rate: One of the biggest obstacles to our sustainable growth is the savings rate of households that have been falling for the past decade. The dependency of investments on foreign financing is endangering the sustainability of growth, causing the current deficit to increase. In our country, the number of children and therefore the rates of young addiction are low in the savings of high households. Women's low turnouts to the labour force also reduce households and private savings rates. One of the most negative consequences of patriarchal and conservative policies has been the downturn of savings rates. 6) Financial Reading: Raising our financial literacy savings rate is a prerequisite for a efficient and sustainable economy. In our country, which is low on financial readers, we still do not have a national financial reading strategy to create awareness of savings and develop financial readers of households. 7) The macroprivileged policy: high private sector debt is a source of great vulnerability to our economy. The real sector's exchange position deficit also poses the risk of a major courtship. The real sector crisis is likely to disrupt balance sheets in the banking sector via the credit channel. Given these risks, we'll have to implement macro-cautious measures and macro-preservation policies immediately. 8) Women's Joining the Workforce: Turkey is the lowest of the OECD countries where women join the labour force. The failure of women to join the labor force is one of the biggest obstacles to sustainable growth. We must carry out the practice of daycare, transportation, lighting and security to encourage women's participation in the labour force. 9) Districts and Citizens' Inequality: Integration between regions and inequality between citizens is a major obstacle to the equality of opportunities in our country. Whereas no child, no youth, no citizen should be left behind. Today, 14 counties have high income levels and 27 counties have low income levels. Our 40 provinces are stuck in a middle income trap. According to the Gini index, which measures income distribution among citizens, Turkey is the world's 59th most inequal country. We still have a long way to go to catch 77 countries whose national income is more equal than ours. 10) Preparation for the Asian Century: In the 21st century, the world's economic center of gravity is shifting to Asia. In 1980, the economic center of gravity in the North Atlantic would have shifted 9.300 km east to the west of China in 2050. The nations who prepare themselves well for the Asian century can benefit from the economic possibilities provided by Asia and protect themselves from the risks posed by Asia. Australia recently published the Australian report in the Asian century and set its 25 national goals aimed at fulfilling by 2025. To make Australia one of the world's 10 most innovative economies, Australia proposed concrete policies, including developing Asian bookwriting. What's our Asian strategy? At what stage are we preparing for the Asian century? 11) The European Union. Reviving our European Union process is essential not only for our economy but also for our democracy and for our human development. Let's not forget that the European Union, above all, is a value project, a peace project, a human development project. It's an acquish that offers the world's most advanced framework for basic rights and freedoms. As the appeal of the world's authoritarian development models rises, the European Union is an anchor who guarantees our regime and policy against authoritarian deployment. 12) Human: Mr. Prime Minister, you know that no policy that does not take a person to the center cannot succeed. It's at the center of the 11 articles I count. The secret to 12 articles is human. With love, respect, understanding, conversation, you grow and grow and rise. With hate, with violence, not with favor, with effort, with efficiency, with efficiency, with growth and development of the economy. Do not forget how many riches and riches cover the suffering of men, poverty, and misery. A treasure that wants to be known, like other people who want to be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0197par0106	Thank you. Ali Kullu, the MP of Mudla, who asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0109	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 13th amendment of the central management budget in 2013, and I salute you all. Last time I went to Mughla, I visited an 80 - year - old grandmother. He taught me a lesson in democracy, and I want to share it with you here. He said, "My son, every time you turn on the TV, there's opposition, sitting, sitting, sitting. Why don't you go? Why don't you go, Ayse Nine, we have the Civil Charter, our parties speak equally according to the Civil Code, so there are four parties in our parliament, at this rate the ruling party can do 25 percent of the talks, and our opposition parties can do 75 percent of the 25 per cent. My son, this is not a democracy. He said, "What number are you?" Sir, we're in power. We said, "We're in power."
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0199par0111	The people want dictatorship!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0112	... 75 percent of the truth...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0200par0113	Stop shaving!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0114	...our opposition parties are talking.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0201par0115	What you're talking about is the dictatorship of the numerical majority!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0116	Friends, there's no silence in the opposition here, there's no sound of power.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0202par0117	Ali asks you as Bull, he says he can't see you and I miss you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0118	That's what I'm doing.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0202par0119	Yeah, well, the deputy presidents of the group won't allow it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0203par0120	Mr. Bull, let's not get the opposition started!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0121	Well, why does Grandma Ayþe want us to talk, I want you to listen here.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0204par0122	Don't give me that, why don't you? Shut up, don't bullshit me!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0123	In 2002, she had a heart attack while waiting on a pay line. Again, he waited one day in line to get the 25-cent drug of the SEC, and today the medicine is finished, and come tomorrow. They said, and the next day he went and tried to buy another 25-cent drug.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0205par0124	Tell me which high school you sent your grandson to!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0125	Hence, today, the medicine for the child comes to her home, and social welfare comes to her home. Tell me which French high school you sent your grandson to!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0206par0127	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0128	Dear friends, the important thing is that we're here today to discuss the function of the budget. The budget's functions before... before the budget went into interest, it couldn't close interest...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0207par0129	Did you tell Granny Ayse that you sent her grandson to French high school?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0130	...he couldn't cover the deficits of the banks that were being vaccinated, but today under the equivalent budget, within the service budget, and...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0208par0132	What an equal, what an equal!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0133	Guys...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0208par0134	Mr. Secretary says he doesn't mind.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0209par0135	Ask Mr. Secretary if it's even budget. Ask the minister.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0136	Mr. President, I want my time.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0210par0137	Mr. Bull, there is no such thing.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0211par0138	Wasn't the target 21?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0139	Now, my dear friends, of course here, Granny Ayşe will be troubled, and she won't like the view. We do big projects with legs on the ground and wings.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0212par0141	Mr. President, ask the opposition what's going on.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0142	Today, budget revenues go to the Bosphorus Bridge and access roads, the Canal Istanbul Project, the Istanbul-Izmir highway and the Gulf bridge crossing, the construction of an airport with 100 million capacities to Istanbul, the Çukurova regional airport and the projects we can't even finish by counting here.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0213par0143	You've done a lot of good. The highways are out, you sold them all out.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0198par0144	In short, budget revenues go not to lie, but to port, channel, tube pass, fast train, tunnels, hydraulic plants, dams, and nuclear power plants; they go to huge hospitals, university campuses, and the budget becomes the real function. Well, is that enough? Of course, it is not enough, and this process will certainly continue to improve the budget. Many Kangrenized problems have been solved at this time, including the 2/B Act. On this occasion, a month ago, I would like to thank the Metropolitan Law, which was also part of the Mughla Law, which was given to the Parliament, and I would like to extend respect to the High Assembly and to my valued citizens who are watching us as brands, including yacht construction, beebuilding, agriculture, greenhousery, mining, marble stoves and fishing sectors.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0214par0148	Thank you, Mr. Bull.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0215par0149	Say hello to my sister Ayþe! They'll never take it off again, Mr. President, and she'll never see it again!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0214par0150	Yusef Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP who asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0216par0153	Mr. President, Grandma Ayþe's on the line, she wants to connect! Madam Ayþe is on the phone, she wants to be connected, sir! He's going to make a correction, he says it's been mistransmitted, sir!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0214par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0217par0155	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my speech, when you say power, power is what's in the House. So you do business, you don't talk, other people criticize you, you talk, so that's the way it is.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0218par0157	We do business, we don't talk; you can't do it, you talk!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0217par0158	As I begin my words, I salute you all. I'd like to start by correcting the historical error made by a Deputy Prime Minister in Congress the other day. Mr. Arinc stated the other day that the Ergenekon saga, also known as the Turkish epic, was a Mongolic epic. Honourable MPs, the original place of the epic is Mongolia, the land of Mongolia. As a matter of fact, Mongolia is the geography that was founded and flourished. Today, the Orhun Adjectives are also in Mongolia, as it is known. In Chinese cases written between the second half of the 6th century and the beginning of the 7th century, the ink of Ergenekon, meaning the mountain belt, is described as being raised by a wolf, the only surviving member of his people, and keeping his descendants alive. According to Chinese sources, the Skyturks are descended from it. The Chinese Han Dynasty diaries are found in 326 volumes at the Turkish Historical Society, and in this poor time the Hun and Gökturk chapters were published in Turkish. It was written six centuries after Mr. Arinc's work, Camiu't-tevarih and Abul Gazi Bahadır Khan's Shecere-i Türki, which was written by the Turkish and Mongol tribes of Reshiddin Hemedani, as a source of Ergenekon as a Mongol epic. And given that Reshiddin is a Mongol state, the Ilhanian State is a court official, I think it's clear why Ergenekon was taken to the Mongols. What's particularly important here is that Mr. Arinc asked us to investigate this conversation in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey when he asked us to investigate something that was not his territory, so that we could ask him from whom he received this information, and then you beat him?" "He's shown an inferiority that's overstepped the bounds." His so-called great kindness and kindness can turn out to be a rude thing that will never happen. My advice to Mr. Arinc is to read and learn about it from the scientific books of the Turkish Historical Society, which is his own institution, not from the writings of Mümtazeer Turköne, which is not an area of expertise, or from Wikipedia. I don't know who gave Mr. Arinc this information, but I want to make it clear to the record that books and articles have been written by Professor Bahaddin Yüll, Dursun Yıldırım, Fuat Bridge, Russian singer Nikita Bichurin, Professor Devin DeWeese and dozens of others. Finally, I would like to point out that the 36 volumes of Hasan Celal Eylü's work, titled Turkler, were ignored, as I also chaired the broadcast board among the New Turkey publications. In fact, there's been a scandal in these budget talks. It's hard to believe that those who are undermining the law will be able to talk about the state of law and democracy. Despite the ruling of Article 164 of the Constitution, the Court's reports are not submitted to parliament and, despite the fact that the budget talks are being carried out by the government is a clear violation of the Constitution. A government that defies constitutional provisions is not expected to respect democratic governance or law. To rule is not to turn away from national values. To rule doesn't give you the luxury of being sentimental and turning the country into a wall of crying. It requires responsibility in both the secular and the secular areas, honesty, and service to the whole community, rather than a part of society. But as it turns out, some of the government members are tired of power, as is their metal fatigue. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I put an end to my words, I wish the 2013 budget to be good for our country and our nation.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0219par0168	Thank you. The question-answer process will be done. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0220par0171	Mr. President, thank you. Don't be offended by our Treasury Department. There's been a highway between Adana and Antep for twenty-five, thirty years. To this day they have given the rivers of Adana to the plowmen and to the foreign associates, and to the lower part to Sanko. To hire three or five workers at minimum wage for the Adana. They said, "We will give Ceyhan to Rotterdam in energy." They gave him to the Chalq group, and they did not produce work. So Adana was 8 percent in unemployment, 25-26, and we were the fourth largest city, and we became the 18th city. We're asking our Finance Minister questions from time to time to sort this out, so I'm sorry. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0221par0174	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0222par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, perhaps that question was asked while I was away, but I still find it helpful to ask. The minimum wage detection commission envisioned a 3% increase for the first six months of 2013. I believe your Ministry will participate in this prediction for the first six months of 2013. However, a 25 per cent increase was made in Ankara last week, when the poor, the low-income, and the minimum wage head of consumers. How can people live on your understanding? Is it your intention to starve the small-income, the poor, and those who try to live on minimum wage? Are you planning to reschedule? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0223par0179	Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0224par0180	Mr. Secretary, what level is Turkey's level of financial literacy compared to the other countries we compete with in global markets? Do you think there's a connection between the low level of our financial readers and the low savings of our households? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer the question I asked about our RD level and our rate in the last round. Our Speaker did not give you an extension in a rather brutal manner. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0225par0183	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0226par0185	Mr. Secretary, we've been talking about Propulsion Law 5084 for days, but I'm afraid we haven't received a positive response from the government. I brought it up again yesterday. If Propulsion Law 5084 is lifted, the Malatian industry will be severely hit. Malatya is a city that uses recent incentives properly, transforms it into an investment, employs jobs. Malatya, as in everything, is a model city of industry. He didn't waste a single incentive, Malatya, but this 5084 is being removed. Know that we have no port, and have no access to Malatiah, not to Malatiah, not to Istanbul. If this 5084 is removed, know that it will encourage off the record. The removal of 5084 will only increase unregistered employment; our number, 22,300, is 50,000, 60,000. Both the industrialist and the unemployed and Malatya are directly concerned. I'd like the government to open their ears on this matter. Look, this is the only fax from Malatya today...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0225par0187	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu... Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0227par0190	In 2013, when you have a 4.3 per cent expected in inflation, what are the grounds for a 16.6 per cent increase in tuition, 17.6 per cent increase in stamp tax, and 12 per cent increase in tax? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0225par0192	Thank you. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0228par0194	Mr. Secretary, the government has set up a two-and-a-half hectare limit to the possession of foreigners under the law under which the deed and the Kadastro Law changed. In addition, the Council of Ministers has been authorized to increase it to 60 hectares. In addition, a large portion of these restrictions have been removed from the existing law when there are restrictions on places to sell to foreigners. Mr. Secretary, this all looks like the Ottoman capitalizations. Did the government make deals with international bankers? Besides, there's no clear explanation in the law for the sale of agricultural land on 2/B land. The municipality and the mujavir are defined outside the area. Will farmers within the city limits be able to buy their farms? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0229par0197	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0230par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, the subject of minimum wage has been raised. If you'll excuse me, I'll share a number with you first. The net minimum wage in Turkey was 184 lira ten years ago, that's $740 today, and the rate of increase here is 301.5 per cent. Inflation increased around 141 percent during this period. So there really is a serious increase in real minimum wage. I've said it before, when compared with the countries of the European Union, we offer a minimum wage above about ten or eleven countries. Is that enough? Sure, that's debatable. But that's where the minimum wage came from in the last ten years. And as I said, compared to many countries, Bulgaria, Romania and so on, Turkey's position is much better. The government doesn't pay minimum wage. There are no minimum wage employees in the government. The private sector does. Turkey has to compete with the world. So on the one hand, I think it's very important that the minimum wage increase is reasonable, of course, for both our employees and employment. There's absolutely no policy here about starving, because the numbers are obvious. I want to congratulate Mr. Erdemir for his speech. Really, it's what we call a constructive, guiding speech. Indeed, he has brought up all the issues that we have been sensitive about. But if you'll excuse me, I'll answer your questions. I don't have any country comparisons on financial reading. You may have it, though. It's probably low in Turkey, and it's clear that it has a very negative impact on household savings, because all international studies show it. We really need to make an effort in that direction. If we're going to make Turkey an important financial centre for Istanbul, we're going to have to work on the framework you're saying if we're going to develop rational policies in Turkey. Of course, RD is a very critical issue. Unfortunately, despite our high dose of incentives -- so you know up to 225 percent -- we encourage the private sector, we provide tax reductions, although -- when you compare the national rate of private sector RD spending with the European Union, unfortunately, it's almost one-sixth of a sixth. But there's a difference when you compare state-run RD spending with state-run RD spending in the European Union, but it's not too big. So we really need to increase awareness, sensitivity in the private sector. What other incentives can we give the private sector, I don't know? Because in income tax, in corporate tax, in real estate tax, we're offering incredible reductions -- if he spends $1, it's $2, $2, 25 cents off. Dear friends, incentives are given for a period of time, including 5084. There can be no indefinitely incentive to encourage investment in the form of business support. Look, don't get me wrong. I'm just here, you know, inexorable, which elements are extended, that's a different issue, but 5084 is an incentive to pay for business expenses. But investment incentives... the last arrangement we made was actually a more rational arrangement. Of course, incentives are given for new investments. The incentives to maintain old investments permanently are a separate issue. Dear friends, in 2013, it's true, we predicted growth at 4.3% inflation, which is 5.3%. So there's a limit to the increase in our tax revenues, if it doesn't involve fighting off the books and so on. So, why are we predicting such an increase in SVR, for example? I've said it many times before: this year we've taken precautions. And as the 2nd, we've also made the assumption that especially BOTASH will meet its obligations -- which are very large numbers, you're talking about $7.5 billion -- look, I repeat. Again, we're probably going to increase the amount of inflation in New Year's, New Year's, New Year's, probably because they're tax victims. Look, I'm being very clear. So the stamp tax, the increase in tuition, should be considered in this framework. Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two motions on matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival, and then I'll process them according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill, which is currently under way, is 13 years old. is about to be added to the article: 75% of the private service compensation for personnel in the Security Services Class is added each month without any cuts in their salaries; this increase is taken into account in the calculation of pensions; it is also reflected to the retired Security Services Class staff; we offer and propose that the burden of the motion will be paid for 2013 Central Management Budget's allowance for personnel and agricultural benefits, except for the additional grants." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Kazım Kurt Izzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli Bült Kuşoğlu Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill, which is currently under way, is 13 years old. is about to be added to the article: We propose and propose that every government official and other public official and SGO pensioners will be paid 1,000 euros per semester for each period in the first and second six months of 2013, and that the amount will be issued as a result of the collective agreement will not be associated with and will not be closed, the burden of the motion will be paid by the Central Management Budget for 2013, with the grants for personnel and agricultural benefits. Bulent Kuşoğlu Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Agha Ayyadın Özgür Special Parent Aği Ağbaba Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0232par0232	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0233	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0233par0234	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0235	Article 162 of the Constitution's budget talks...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0234par0236	Mr. Yüksel, are you opposed to pensioners? Mr. Yüksel, this is about pensioners.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0237	...the amendment proposals are also read and voted on without discussion. I am reading the grounds as required by the decree: Retired officers and other public officials are expected to receive bonuses twice a year. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill, which is currently under way, is 13 years old. is about to be added to the article: 75% of the private service compensation for personnel in the Security Services Class is added each month without any cuts in their salaries; this increase is taken into account in the calculation of pensions; it is also reflected to the retired Security Services Class staff; we offer and propose that the burden of the motion will be paid for 2013 Central Management Budget's allowance for personnel and agricultural benefits, except for the additional grants." Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0235par0247	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0248	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0236par0249	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0250	For the same reason, his motive is...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0237par0251	Mr. President, this isn't a expense-enhancing thing, so it's not another... it's not a expense-enhancing thing, Mr. Secretary. I mean, why does the government object? Why does the commission object?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0231par0252	It's the government's business, I don't know, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0237par0253	It's a question, sir. Give us the right to ask.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0238par0254	It's the country, not the government!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0237par0255	Then give us the right to ask.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0239par0256	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0257	Yes, for the same reason as just now, I'm reading the reason: Security Services Class personnel and pensioners are expected to increase their salary. Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi, please enter the system from your position. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0241par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. According to our constitution, budget talks cannot be made during talks in the General Assembly of the budget bill, and there are no extenuating proposals and revenue reductions, and such a motion does not apply to the Presidential Court. You have now received the opinion of the government and the commission, and they themselves did not naturally participate, but you have stated that you will not carry out these motions on grounds of violation of the Constitution. The motions are not extenuating motions.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0264	Mr. Hamzacebi, I didn't say that. Out of the question.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0241par0265	That's what I figured.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0266	No, it's not. Again, I told you the reason why I had the reason to read the reason: I am reading and voting on the amendment proposals of Article 162, which regulates the budget talks of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0241par0268	Then I'm sorry, I'm correcting it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0269	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0241par0270	I misunderstood. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0272	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0242par0273	But, Mr. President, you're not supposed to have the motive read because it means you're going to open up a debate. We know how to negotiate the motion...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0274	Yes, Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0243par0275	Mr. President, this is the law-enforcement class. People are miserable! I offer it to your conscience!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0276	Present it not to my conscience, but to the conscience of the government, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0243par0277	No, it's on your conscience, too. When he retires, if he's paid 3,000 liras, Mr. President, it's down to a thousand liras. Don't starve these people! We say: add the allowance to your salary. We don't want anything else!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0278	Mr. Aslanoglu has filed a report. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0243par0280	It's not an accelerant, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0281	I've also made you read the reason, and I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill and proposal are the fourth Article of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but in order to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill and proposal, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has often participated in. So I'll have the motion read and ask the commission. If the commission joins the motion, mostly with 21 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added to the Central Management Budget Law Bill in 2013, which is 361 Rows. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Aydın Ayan Ayadın Haluk Ahmet Silver Kazim Kurt Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Haydar Akar Bulent Kuşoğlu İzzet Cetin Rahmi Küreli of Love The 14-In-Mad is in the central, rural and rotating capital services of public institutions and corporations, who apply in writing within 30 days of the general conditions stated in Article 657, under Article 657 (b) of State Officers Act 4 (b) and (c) officers in the special laws of the law, under contract and interim personnel positions, under the same decrees, under which there is no longer a title, under which there is no longer a number of officers in the Court of Law, under the same title, and that there is no longer a number of officers in the Court of Law under the Article 657, and that there is no longer a tenure in the Court of Law under the same title. In the administrations under the first joke, temporary or seasonal workers or subcontractors who apply in writing within 30 days, are appointed to permanent staff in accordance with their qualifications and to the institutions of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security within 60 days of the implementation of this clause." The costs under this clause are covered by cuts from other grants, except for payments from the central management budget for personnel and agricultural support in 2013. Yeah. Mr. Commission, if you'd like to invite your members first, we can ask after that.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0244par0298	Mr. President, you've announced it, and since our Plan and Budget Commission is a new substance violation, if we have members of the Commission, I'm inviting our members of the Commission.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0245par0299	There is! There is! Call him!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0300	Mr. bureaucrats, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Commissioners...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0244par0301	I'm inviting you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0245par0302	Invite him!
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0303	Mr. Aslanoglu, there's no need to shout, just answer the invitation, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0244par0304	Yes, Plan and Budget Commissioners, I invite our friends to the Commission, I invite them to the Court.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0305	Yes, Mr. President, do you agree with the motion in general? Mr. President, we don't have 21 numbers, the entire majority of us as Plans and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0246par0307	Sir, let them count. There's only a majority there.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0247par0308	And there's a qualified majority, a qualified majority.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0309	Yes, Mr. President, do you or do you not agree?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0248par0310	Mr. President, are you counting?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0249par0311	Yes, Mr. President, the Commission doesn't usually agree.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0312	Well, thank you. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0250par0314	Sir, you're sitting there, you're not coming.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0251par0315	You're sitting there, but you're not. You're counting.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0240par0316	I'm reading article 14: MADDE 14- (1) This Law takes effect on 1/1/2013. Sena Kaleli is the MP for the People's Party Group on Articles.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0252par0321	Mr. President, I have been promised to express the opinion of the CHP Group on the executive clause of the Budget Law Bill, which we are discussing. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers reflect the budget, the state and the country's values. The budget also shapes social order and politics, such as a mirror about which areas of power, which areas and what it values and who it rewards. My impression is that parliamentary negotiations -- as we have just seen -- were transformed into a symbolic ritual, free of accountability and transparency during AKP rulings. It's clear we're dealing with a planned hegemonic force in the system. This is what the prime minister's latest statement on the principle of separation of forces shows. I'll explain to you the reasons and reasons for their defenses in a moment. The institutions are bypassed as an excuse to be obstructed by the ministry. To make it clear, I want to draw attention to the concept of "hegemonia." Hegemonia is about accepting its system of self-interest as the dominant force of other elements. Hegemonia is a cultural and ideological method. Hegemonia aims to involve the submissive class in the system through its consent - blackmail, threat, fear, pressure, by dragging it into a spiral of desperation. Sovereignty is unconditionally hegemon. As it settles a certain view and thought, it marginalizes alternative glances and expressions. Hegemonic power uses ideological state devices, culture, art and mass communication tools to dominate its ideology and monotheistic understanding and to transform it into a part of everyday life, creating a PR miracle. In the event of failure to achieve the goal with ideological state devices, oppressive state devices are activated, which are police, military and judicial. Hegemonic power is the way to see and not want to hear, just as it is in the way of the society that you think you're getting your consent from; it can't tolerate ordinary, serial, and non-exploiting; it tries to make it up to itself, far from the truth of life. In this climate created by the AKP, our lives are surrounded by images and images, and the individual living like this has naturally become unresponsive. The officer can't get the pay raises for three or four months, the power to buy is dropping. It is ignored that the reserve and option centre can reduce the risk perception of banks with courtship games, limiting loans that can be given to the public. With the gold paid for Iranian gas, exports are high, numbers are tampered with, and the economy is inflated. Cruelty is being taken at the will of the nation by unfair indirect taxes. Unemployment also exceeds crisis, and in business accidents, deaths are increasing. The farmer can't get what he's producing, so he's writhing in debt and interest helix. The truth is hidden, so there's no reaction. The closer we get to democracy and human rights with a double standard, the greater the hate crimes, the better the General Assembly. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Hegemonic system's concept of understanding should normally be in contact with participating and civil society organisations, while we are being interfered with all NGOs' congresses, such as in TMMOB, where constraints and responsibilities are being made; the Public Hospitals Association, Public Surveillance Agency, TOKI, many officials, control power institutions are being created. The corruption, ground selection irregularities, and the victims of entitled citizens are also evident. The group that wants to be hegemonic can satisfy the interests and desires of other classes, first through understanding and carrying out their own interests. The president's reaction to the election's response to the higher budget of the 11 ministries is interesting. The main role in the creation of the culture of submission and consent is the Dianete. Turkey's Religious Foundation, which serves as a covert grant for the AKP's civil society, has become increasingly difficult to control under the rule of people who benefit from the people's pure feelings. Dear lawmakers, accidents, murder, unmanageable disasters, civil and political violence have reached a tedious extent. Death is due, pepper spray is lawful. This hegemonic power in power chooses the way to develop with its allies by giving economic interest to its shareholders and creating mutual satisfaction. It's part of the system. In this direction, policies are being created, and the economy is being kept alive by the humbling sacrifice of subterranean and subterranean wealth. As a result of the policies created, there is no one who cares about burning the farmer's product of the boron mines that were mixed with the Kirmasti River district of Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa. The private sector is left to EU integration laws and social responsibility without competitiveness-enhancing policies. Many view their investments as a means of moving abroad or as a cure for the unregistered economy. There's an explosion in execution, foreclosure, and a bad check. The economy comes back with hot money in pursuit of speculative gains. The unsupervised budget deficit is growing. Cari is shrinking open, and her imports are dropping, so there's no production, and the economy isn't growing. The Nabucco Project, which may have political and economic advantages at a cheaper cost, is losing to the South Stream Project because of the wrong foreign policy. Now the United States is trying to pass an embargo law on the gas from Iran in exchange for gold. In terms of energy, if the losses in energy transfer lines were removed, if austerity policies were implemented, the villagers in the Keles district of Burma would not have ended in the face of the thermal plant that was signed today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the village of Milletım district of Bursa Yıldırım, 850 children go to school five miles [8 km] away by stacking up four buses. His class situation is no different. The Rantçian understanding, which does not allow prefabricated schools to be built here, opens the first-degree mera area for the auto testing centre in Newşehir, changes the status decisions in one day, delivers the flood zones, the fertile land to TOKI. Hegemonic power sells its own dreams to us. Whereas we, gender, ethnic, religious, non-discrimination, are equal, but not the same, without separate, without emotional dissolution, without double standard democracy, rights and freedoms, are at peace with our bodies and identities, with all the obstacles removed, with the green economy, independent, non-politicized scientific institutions in CERN, with the technology institutions in CERN, with all the technology-sellers, with no silenced decisions, we imagine a life in Turkey, an enthusiastic and meaningful life, where no one is silenced. Dear lawmakers, I've tried to give you examples of the hegemonic method, but this understanding turns from hegemonia to dictatorship. In this context, I wish all of you the well-being of the sharing budget of the AKP and its social allies that we're negotiating on. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0253par0345	Thank you. Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Articles.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0254par0348	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party regarding the 14th Article of the central management budget in 2013. On this occasion, I salute you all. The province of Bitlis in Turkey is one of the least developed, least invested cities, where unemployment, poverty are all around. Another name for poverty around here is hell. Studies on the organised industrial area, which had been agreed on many years ago and had been carried out by publicisation, have come to a standstill. The region of organised industry has so far failed to reach the desired level, due to meaningless contradictions and administrative pressures directed by power against its zeal as well as the Bitlis Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, the ruling lawmakers and the mayor and the majority of the bureaucracy are now trying to transfer the land of the organised industrial region, which was assigned as the Bitlis Organised Industrial Region, which was issued ten years ago. The Bitlis Central Municipality belongs to the AKP, but Bitlis has found no solution to the problem in the city centre, including structural and infrastructure, whereas the problems have increased and became inexorable, and Bitlis has turned into a village. The simplest example is Kosor and Rabat tea, even the sewage wastes of Bitlis City, which spend hundreds of thousands of dollars just to promote the propaganda to save Bitlis Creek from filth, garbage and waste. To begin in autumn 2011, honeys offered in many TVs, newspapers and radios at prices of about $100 a kilo have put Bitlis honey producers and wholesalers in economic difficulty. The sales of these honeys have been determined to be non-organic, but our honey maker's credibility has been shaken because of statements such as "Bitlis honey" in advertising. For this reason, local executives, beekeepers, beekeepers, try to gather a platform to earn the value they deserve in Bitlis' honey, but this initiative does not yield any results due to pressure from bureaucratic obstacles or honey monopolys, and pressure from ruling lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0255par0353	I don't have anything like that, don't look at me.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0254par0354	Honey sales continue on some television shows. Members of parliament, under the decision of urban transformation, Bitlis' oldest and busiest neighborhoods are on the verge of total destruction. Many landlords, who have decided to change cities, are unable to repair their homes because of the decision of Bitlis Municipality, which has made no attempt in urban transformation. Because of the rain and the snow, these ancient houses have been destroyed. The international transit road through Bitlis costs dozens of Bitlis each year. The AKP government, which makes double roads, allows lives to be crushed under vehicles, not thinking about people who will use foot traffic. There are three overpasses on the 15km road, one of which has not had the stairs, the other two have not had the necessary protection and isolation. Because of the failure to use the overpasses and the lack of overpasses on the highway, dozens of our citizens lose their lives every year. In particular, traffic accidents continue to take life because the Pine Site and the surrounding areas are not being taken. One of the latest examples is Omar Erol, a student at Eren University, who died in a car accident. All applications for preventing accidents have failed. Mr. President, the city's population has been living in Bitlis since the closing of TECEL tobacco, cigarette factory and its businesses. Despite this migration, no measure of investment has been decided. Bitlis, who had previously been four MPs, is now three MPs, and who knows if he'll fall to two tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0256par0358	Let's increase the population.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0254par0359	TEKEL's privatisation of TEKEL's move-ins are transferred to municipalities, while unfortunately they do not belong to TEKEL in the district centre of Üroymak. Congressmans, the historical Bitlis houses, which are a reflection of our past today, are remembered with hundreds of them thirty years ago, and the number of these houses today is expressed with them. Now, as you can see here, those historical houses are about to collapse.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0256par0361	We're doing it to renovate, urban transformation.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0254par0362	Due to the failure of historic homes that have been destroyed, the city's central city has been devastated. We also bring you the attention of the relevant ministry. A loan to thousands of people has not been paid, even though it was planned. In our district of Tatvan, the city is seriously disturbed by the explosions of high concentrations of ponza raw materials and dynamite and TNT molds in the quarry. Because of the frequent explosions, the people of the city are afraid, and after the explosions, dust clouds fall upon the city. Parts of these furnaces come to the garden of Can Hospital in Tatvan. The disturbances have been reported to the Special Administration authorities over and over again, but no measure has been taken. In addition, public investments are not made in parts of the coastal district, the lower parts of the fair district, and parts of the city near the lake, and in parts of the city, which are under the range of 1,555 jeans due to disaster in the 90s. Thus, many public institutions and institutions, such as military housing, hospitals, were built in the area, as were not destroyed in the past. Since the area is considered a disaster, other institutions, particularly the municipality, do not offer infrastructure services. Investments in these areas are not made because they are banned. That is why the city and its people face each other all the time. The goal here is to narrow down municipal work and make it look like a failure.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0257par0366	What do we do if the lake rises?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0258par0367	Come in from the stand. Let our friend finish his speech, and then you answer from the stand.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0254par0368	There is still considerable tension in the city due to arrests and arrests that have been turned into a political lynching operation in the name of the KCK. In addition, many of the people arrested were taken away from economic life and sent to prison. Members of parliament, due to heavy snowfall last Christmas, the largest district of our province was only paid $25,000 for shoveling profits. A total of 60,000 liras have been paid to Bitlis City in the AKP's hands, directly after 500,000 euros, as a result of intense pressures. The municipality's facilities are seen to be rejected by the board of trustees regarding all these names placed in the garden and social areas. In essence, there are individuals like Ahmed Hani, Musa Anter, who are often mentioned by the Prime Minister, as well as the names of the university student Sherzan Kurt, who was killed in the middle of the street by Vedat Aydın, who was killed in an unsolved murder. Because of these names given to educational support homes, these educational support homes are either closed or blocked. Dear lawmakers, in the rainy season the fields have been flooded, but for years there has been no solution to this problem. Therefore, each year, the Norshin farmer is losing millions of liras. Mutki, who lived deeply in the war environment of the 1990s and ranked sixth to last among the 858 settlements in Turkey, is unable to receive his share of public services. The roads that provide transportation between the settlements in Mutki district, which has a rural and mountain landscape, close for a long time in winter. In certain points, opening a path and resolving the problem with the production stations are an expectation of the human Mutki. Besides, the digs at Mutki still haven't determined who the bones belong to. A study by the IHD Bitlis Representative and other human rights agencies has been alleged by the media that there are several mass graves in Mutki district, but has raised doubts. Excavations in Mutki with ladle and business machines have hurt people's conscience. As soon as possible, excavations are expected under the rules in accordance with the Minnesota Protocol. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our Adilcevaz district is a grain depository for the production of walnuts, dry grains and groceries. Much of the production is done on the plains of Gulistan, but there are no irrigation activities. In the last earthquake, many buildings in the county center have been damaged. After every two earthquakes, housing and workplaces were damaged, there was no study of earthquakes in the villages. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0259par0381	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0260par0383	During the parliamentary speech, the ruling party said some producers could not process under pressure because of pressure from lawmakers. I'd like to take the floor as the ruling party MP.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0261par0384	There is no procedure for taking promises.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0259par0385	Here you go, two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0260par0389	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I am personally offended by the fact that my friend, the MP of our province, has told you about Bitlis, as if he were living in another province. It's my first time taking promises. Bitlis, as they say, is not what it is. The urban transformation of Bitlis, as he called it, has been initiated, and historical buildings are protected. For 100 million liras, the city's inland stream is being reformed, started, and built five miles [5 km] with the cooperation of State Water Affairs, TOKI and the municipality. He comes and goes, and he doesn't see it at all, so I don't understand... Once, 100 million liras were reserved for river reform and now it's begun, the urban transformation continues. 700 shops have been destroyed and replaced by shopping malls, and the city is being moved toward Rahva, and the stream will be reformed. Kent's gonna go back to the way he was. We have a tunnel. You say the roads, the tunnel beneath Derivan, ten years ago, no one would believe it. The first road is over, and now we're doing the second part of the tunnel. Bitlis has a 600 million-dollar road investment for this year. You say the quarry, and I'm on top of it, the quarry will make modern production after the beginning of the year. Tatvan has been auctioned off the freeway, and we will begin construction as soon as possible. Due to the earthquake, due to floods and droughts, taxes have been delayed and loans delayed by the Bitlis tradesman's for sure. As part of COSGEB, 1,240 tradesmen received a three-year-old loan between 50 and 100,000 liras. Lake Van is rising, rising every ten years, every 20 years. How are we going to build those disaster areas? No way. The number of students is 28, 28 students in one classroom; 55 in Istanbul... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not over yet, but I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0262par0400	Thank you, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0263par0401	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0262par0402	Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0263par0403	He's trying to deny what we're saying to some extent.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0264par0404	Mr. President, our congressman is giving false information about Bitlis as if he never lived in Bitlis.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0262par0405	Here you go, Mr. Zenderlioglu. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0265par0408	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't want to go into a polemic here. Here are the pictures, like I showed you here. A service or study called urban transformation is currently out of the question in Bitlis. If it had happened, of course I wouldn't be here to show you these pictures. Look, as you can see here, you see. But where our Congressman Eren University is... right, the city is heading up towards Rahva, and right now this transit road is passing ahead of Eren University. There are no measures being taken there. So we have hundreds of people who have lost their lives. So when you say that, one person is not two people. You can look, you can ask, so...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0266par0409	We start this week. It's starting now, the intersection has begun.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0262par0410	Irony, please...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0265par0411	No, we wouldn't say that here, Congressman. 19 villages were damaged in that earthquake in the fair language - can you imagine? How many times have they been there? And you know that four villages from 19 villages were in no condition to live there, not even a nail has ever been struck. Why don't you say it? There's no point sitting here.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0267par0413	We sent money there, he's in the governor's office.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0265par0414	When did you send it?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0267par0415	We did, he's in the governor's office.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0268par0416	Please don't talk to each other. Mr. Zenderlioğlu, address the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0265par0417	No, let them explain when they sent it, so no, there's no need to put a polemic on it here. In fact, whenever they send money there, let them explain. No matter who he sent it to, no matter what village he sent it to, no matter what village he took it from, I mean, the governor wasn't interested. He left because the governor wasn't interested. Thank you all, my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0268par0420	Thank you. Members of parliament, we have learned that Turkey's native reconnaissance satellite, Gökturk-2, was successfully launched into space today and orbited. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] We thank everyone who's worked as the Presidential Court, and we wish him good luck.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0269par0426	Mr. President, tell them that the Middle East Technical University has been occupied by 2,000 police officers and has been gassed, and the students protested during the launch of the Skyturk Satellite, which Mr. Prime Minister will attend at Middle East Technical University. The Prime Minister, who went there with 2,000 police officers, put the gas on it, and he was impressed.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0268par0427	It's been expressed before, sir. Thank you. [[Continue]] Yes, it is now Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP who has asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on its behalf.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0270par0437	Mr. Secretary's not here, but I'll tell the bureaucrats. Now, Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in particular...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0271par0439	Teacher, you have to celebrate Skyturk.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0270par0440	I'm celebrating Skyturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I hope you don't make Sky from Turkey, it stays there as Skyturk, where it represents Turkishness from the top down. Dear friends, there are three basic conditions for making a man capable or qualified today. One of them is to know a foreign language, the second is to learn how to use a certain device system, to have a driver's license, to have his truck use a computer, and the third is to learn to spend money. The most important thing of all is learning to spend money. So, this is the Ministry of Finance, a ministry that collects money and also directs the spending of money one way or another, and we think there are some very big mistakes, mistakes in spending it, and I'd like to take a little bit of a look at it. So we have a saying that if the Finance Ministry follows only this word, Turkey will gain a certain position and status in terms of income-go balance today, in terms of production-commerce balance. The Finance Ministry, a ministry that collects revenues, money, but what is important is that it becomes a ministry that can afford to spend the money properly. Turkey has problems raising money and spending money. Now, in the Old Trade Law, the Crown must act as a discreet businessman. I don't know if you took it out or not, but...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0272par0447	There is now, Hajji.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0270par0448	...statemen have to be as discreet as a businessman. That's the question. If a building he rented as a ministry service building can be bought with three years' rent, there's no reason to rent that building. Ministrys are using the budget that the public entrusted to rent a building in a way that is highly irresponsible. I'd like to give you a few examples of these. For answers from these ministries, the figures are 1 million percent precise and clear: The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism pays $1,416,000 a year rent to the service building in the Balgat district in 2012. If you multiply it by four years, it's $5,600,000. It's possible to build a building there, like a building that the Ministry has rented, or a building that will fulfill its function. The service building, located in the same Ministry's Willows, is paid at $2,74,000 in one year. If you multiply it by four, it's 11 million. Bring in 11 million TL. I'm not a builder. I'll put you in a building like that. Now, the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information has been paid a total of 10 million 857,134 lira 18 cents for service and additional building from 2008 to 2012. You pay 10 million, 857 thousand liras in four years -- you also have an organization called TOKI -- the man is afraid of God, so it's possible to put that building there with this money. I'm stressing this in particular, and I want everyone to know that we're going to follow it. The Foreign Ministry is renting an official residence to the Foreign Office after its official residence is not evacuated by the President. The price paid for the rented building is now able to make this building, two of this dwelling, three of its own. Now, one doesn't unload, one doesn't go to his own residence, and the other rents it with a lot of money. 51,000 lira, paid for 2012. Since the amount paid for 2012 was 571,000 liras, it amounts to between 46 and 48,000 liras per month. So since a dwelling is not being evacuated, we're paying rent for $48,000 a month from taxes, so to speak, from the poor, poor, poor, to the teeth. Who? Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Davutoglu. Friends, I'd like to make a special review of the bridges and highways that were privatized just yesterday. As a result of the privatisation of these highways for twenty-five years, the number was given by about 5,720,000 or something between 5,800. Most of it will be paid in advance, but the rest will be paid in installments. So, what's the annual income for these bridges and highways? According to government sources, around $800,000 is close to $1 million. Look, after this privatisation is done, you'll see, the raises will start tomorrow. With these raises, there's a very good chance your annual income will go up to around $1.5 million. In three-and-a-half years, so to speak, through this privatisation, the bridges and highways will pay for what they pay for, and the rest of it, if that's what it's called...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0273par0453	Ten thousand Hajji...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0270par0454	That's what he's supposed to be, but he's not. ...in the Republic of Turkey, citizens will no longer be facing a continuous periodic increase in bridge increases, transition increases. Here it is easy to say that the interests of the state and the public are certainly not considered, in the interest of the Istanbul capital or the integration of the Anatolian capital or in the name of a contact there, or, in a sense, the people's money, in a sense, are being squandered. Undersecretary of Public Order and Security. We wrote to this undersecretary, asked the questions, but they haven't come back yet. But I'll tell you this: the rent of this undersecretary is said to have been activated in the process of building for the first time by the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security -- if it's in the right place -- by repairs and renovations of around $6 million. 150,000 plus VAT and monthly rent are now said to be leased for ten years. Now, if you spend $6 million in the middle of Kızılay, the money you collect from the nation, it's not strategic, it's not usable, and it's brought in there just to be close to some bureaucrats, and as I've just stated, you're renting it with the money to be built, or you're fixing it. That is indeed unjust to the people. Sensitivity in the use of public resources shows the view of power to the world and society. No matter how high you talk about it, it's your attitude that's going to bring you up. When we look at the attitude, it is observed that there is an impacting and scattering mechanism. Guys, I don't really understand how this time went, but we talked slowly. Now, especially from here, Mr. Secretary isn't here, but... the Minister is here. Mr. Secretary, I have seven pages of this right now. You know what these are? These are the tax types in Turkey. So if there are so many types of taxes in this country, there's so many red tape and formalities. These need to be simplified. Each of these has its own costs, each one of which is public. So, I would like to stress in particular that there is no logic that such a complicated, intermittent tax arrangement -- I fully express it -- is that there is no tax order for a modern and technical state to do or apply. No matter how rich the subterranean and subterranean resources of a society are, it is the brain power that evaluates those resources. If you neglect brain power, if you deny it, if you waste it, then you will not be able to make the resources of subterranean and subterranean wealth random, efficient, productive and productive. In Turkey today, unfortunately, the ministries work like a brain meat grinder. What are they doing? The ministries have become huge structures that grind up grown, experienced, and accumulated people. The bureaucracy of Turkey is divided into three parts such as those who were pushed to resign, those who were pushed, and those who were in charge. Today, all ministries have created an army of counselors of grown-up people.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0274par0464	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0270par0465	I mean, you have to tell me all this, but time's up. It's important that all of this be taken into consideration... this rent thing is a first-degree issue. I'd like the Minister to examine this in particular, make the necessary warnings and take precautions. I wish the budget to be good, to bring future and future to the Turkish nation, with respect.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0274par0468	Mr. Yeniçeri, you said you spoke slowly. I'm glad you guys talked slow. What would happen if you talked fast? Now, it's Huseyin Fitz, the Çankırı MP, who wants to speak for himself.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0275par0471	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge as an AK PARTI Chandır MP on Article 14 of the 2013 Central Management Budget Act. I salute the House of People. Respected MPs have been abandoned to their fate, even though Çankırı Ankara is one hour away during the 80-year period of the republic. In the 1950s, we were six MPs, and today we are two members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Gene, our 300,000 populations have dropped to 175 thousand. As a city forgotten in the days of the republic's governments, the cranberry has never been noticed and has never deserved it. Up until now, the public has been told that the East and the Southeast have been wronged in development. All right, but, my dear friends, who has done injustice to Çanrı, and why hasn't Çanrı rose up? Republican governments have forgotten about Çankırı, and I can never say that there was any intention of the past governments here, but regional development plans have not been made, and these plans have caused injustice. Thus, large cities have grown larger, and small cities continue to migrate, causing depopulation. Now, in our government's new development plan, I think this incentive law is Turkey's best incentive law. See, the incentive laws of four development areas -- added to the region -- have been raised to 6. This means that the cities that need to be more developed should take a little more investment, and if they are to be developed, give more. These cities are mainly Eastern and Southeast provinces, but thankfully our government has not forgotten about Çankırı, and has said: "The countryside is further behind East and Southeast. You can see, if you want, the bride and Çankırı have made the first area in development, and we have set up our organization for you in a short period of six months, in order to establish organised industry, and we are ready to set up an organised industry immediately by turning it into an advantage. You know the organized industries, they're set up in two or three years. Here, it belongs to our Ottoman MP, Mr. Kastal. I got this record from him, and that record went to me. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, valuable lawmakers, not by building organised industry, we immediately went on an investor hunt, we found about 100 percent investors, and we got a commitment from them. One of them, however, is Sumitomo, a Japanese tire company, which brings a quadrillion investments to Chandırı. $516 million will employ 2,500 people. While our government poured 37 quadrillion coins into the East and Southeast, we, the Chandırians, brought this investment to Çankırı, with our own means, without expecting anything from the state.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0276par0477	But you didn't invest anything in Central County.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0275par0478	I was in Central County on Saturday, and we're still investing there. Dear MPs, I'm talking to you now about the University of Karatekin, who came to Çankırı, during our government. Last year, 56 trillion went to this university -- thank you -- with your votes, 65 trillion went this year. We're talking about what we're going through here, not what we're going through together, but what we're talking about is that Çanrý didn't used to see this money. This university currently has 10,000 students, targeting 35,000 students, and so when you think about the city center of 70,000 populations, when 35,000 students are added to it, I leave it to you. While I wish the 2013 budget to be a blessing, I salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0277par0482	Thank you. Iron Steel MP, asking for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0278par0485	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you on behalf of myself. I have made a pledge on the 14th Amendment on behalf of myself. First of all, I'd like to share this photograph with you, and I'd like to write it down in your memory again. I'm here in 2009 to share with you a problem that is on our agenda every day as a KCK operation, including the mayor, city councilman, city council member, and our friends, who have arrived today, who have increased by over 9,000 people, hundreds of unions, hundreds of lawyers, thousands of students, six MPs. First of all, I greet and greet each of the 9,000 arrested today under the name of KCK with respect and love, including Van Mayor Bakir Kaya, our Iğdır Mayor Mehmet Nuri Gün, Şırnak Mayor Ramazan Uysal, Batman Mayor Nejdet Atalay, Viranşehir Mayor Leyla Güven and many of our mayors. It's about breaking will with illegal political operations that are treated as enemies to a public, a political movement, an enemy to a political party. After more than three and a half years of illegal, completely political operations, the Peace and Democracy Party, the democratic, political field manager, wanted to block the political activities of us political actors. They wanted to block a public identity, culture, language demands. However, the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has been trying to prevent it, had to bring administrative, financial autonomy to municipalities that we call local, under which it had signed the European Union's Regional Local Governments Autonomous Condition since the 90s. With political autonomy called regionals, the decentralisation of the centralist state was to be given an opportunity; it wasn't done, it wasn't done. For the past 90 years, a political will has been put into action in favor of the current mistakes, as well as the insistence of what we've done, and that's why we can't back down. This is the future of us and the future of the Turkish-Kurdish people with us. I want to say with the sensitivity and awareness that no one has the right to cloud our future, that, as of yesterday, the future of a people cannot be delayed, even if it is a prison, even if it is a prison, even if it is an immunity, can't be avoided, as long as the struggle is justified and legitimate as it is. As the road is near, it is to get rid of this monstrosity, which is beyond the normism of today's democratic normism, which is beyond the norms of the law state; to ensure the freedom of our friends, political prisoners; in this respect, not to divide the state of the Peace and Democracy Party, but to allow the peaceful, democratic solution of the Kurdish problem, which means sharing sovereignty within the sovereign areas of the state. Because democratic autonomy is not only going to allow Kurds to govern itself alone, it is also a project of Turkey's democratisation. Therefore, in the democratic Republic of Turkey, in the hope of meeting in a free future in a democratic common country, I wish you all a good evening with respect and love for myself and my party.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0279par0493	Thank you. Question-answer procedure, ten minutes. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0280par0496	Mr. Secretary, I've postponed the 5084 until tomorrow, and I'll talk to you tomorrow, again, about Malatya to get your answer, but I want to talk about something else today. The celestial satellite has been launched, and I congratulate everyone who's done it. Unfortunately, those who have recently expressed their every democratic demand in Turkey, who have brought up the agenda, unfortunately, are being silenced by pressure, police club, pepper spray. It's sometimes a congressman, sometimes a student. Students protesting against the Prime Minister today in ODTÜ are trying to be silenced by pepper spray. Unhumanly, the teachers there, the college students, are attracted to them. Now, it's something like this... in the middle east of democracy, where the Prime Minister is preaching, where he's trying to silence people with police batons and pepper spray. I'd like to point out that I'm condemning this here. Is there any other form, any other way that people can express themselves? I'd like to hear your thoughts on that. Besides...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0279par0499	Thank you. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0281par0501	Thank you, Mr. President. We just applauded the news that our high-resolution domestic reconnaissance satellite was launched from the Jiuquan Base in China and successfully placed in its orbit 686 kilometers up. As Republican People's Party, we thank all those who have worked hard and contributed to the project. In the 12 years in the Millennium, the AKP was in power. There are 25 countries in the world who are proud to be the 17th economy, who have launched this satellite before us, which indicates a lack in all of our names, and I salute the entire Assembly with the words of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0282par0505	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0283par0507	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, one of the most important problems in our country's economy is the current. In 2002, the current deficit was 0.3 per cent per cent, while in 2011, the current deficit increased to 10 per cent per cent. However, the main problem of Turkey's economy is import-related production. The solution is to increase the rate of domestic production in intermediaries. What measures do you intend to take to ensure structural transformation in the economy starting in 2013? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0284par0510	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0285par0512	Mr. President, thank you. The Court of Public Relations is being outlawed in matters which have recently been made available in the budget talks on behalf of the public. Is -- I mean -- is this court planning to shut down the Public Relations Agency? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0286par0515	Thank you. Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0287par0517	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the net minimum wage is still 739 lira 79 cents. According to Turkish-HIS data, the hunger limit is 958.03, and the poverty limit is 3.120 lira 61 cents. The minimum wage is to provide workers with a minimum amount of mandatory needs, such as food, housing, clothing, health care, transport and culture, which are paid as a normal working day in their regulations. This definition leads to significant challenges due to computing methods and the problems caused by the definition itself. Do you plan on not taking tax and insurance premiums from minimum wage? Besides, will you raise minimum wage above the poverty line? Do you plan to give our people a minimum wage to provide for their basic needs? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0288par0520	Yes, thank you. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0289par0522	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know there's been a tender recently for Mediterranean Electricity Dispersion. As a result of this tender, Genghis-Kolin-Limak's Partner Initiative bid $546 million. The tender, held on December 27, 2010, covers the provinces of Antalya, Burdur and Isparta, you know. As a result of the tender at the time, the highest bid is $1 billion, 165 million by Park Holdings, followed by $1 billion, 128 million in ENERJISA... He's gone. In this case, there appears to be a current public damage. So, will you approve the new tender? If you approve, if you compare this with the 2010 tender, is it possible for the public to suffer from public damage? What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0290par0525	Thank you. Your Honor, the last question is...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0291par0527	Thank you, Mr. President. Currently, the taxi driver's business is in a great deal of depression because there is an incredible amount of traffic insurance that comes from the monopoly of insurance companies, because they are not competitive. They have 4-5 times more insurance than normal cars. I want to know if there's any way to intervene. The taxi driver's shop has a very serious complaint about it. In the same way, commercial vans have a huge problem. Second: You know, they use gas economically, but the price of this gas is close to the price of normal gas. They're wondering if they can get a subsidies. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0292par0532	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0293par0534	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course we respect the freedom of expression and demonstration of our citizens, it is a fundamental right. We don't have a different approach to that.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0294par0536	Then who's firing the gas bombs, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0293par0537	Good luck with the satellite. I'm thanking everyone who's passed the job. Dear friends, of course, the current is an open, truly structural problem. The size of this structural problem was actually felt at a very high point in 2011, and the reason is that in 2002, compared to 2002, valuable friends, oil prices, the average price of oil per barrel that Turkey imported was about $23-24, and the bill that Turkey paid for total energy, the import bill was $9 billion. I remember last year that the money that Turkey paid for energy imports, the currency he paid, was $58.8 billion, and maybe the numbers could be... In the end, really, you already see here, energy is the largest component, but the main problem is not just energy. The point is that we go up the chain of value, one. So we need RD, we need to improve the quality of human capital, so we need to move on to a more invasive, performance-based culture. There are many dimensions to this, but right now our time is not available here, there are many more questions, but as a structural measure, we're taking steps, we're taking steps, we're taking steps in all these areas. We've taken steps, we've taken steps, from reducing external dependence in energy to increasing R&D, to promoting branding, innovation, to education. Dear friends, there is no such thing as closing the Court and the CIC. We all took out the Law of the Court together, and it just came out. I have given a great deal of information about the CIC. 95.5 per cent of tenders made today outside the scope of the CIC are made under exceptions given when the law was first issued. Of course, dear friends, I'm looking...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0295par0542	The minimum wage, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0293par0543	The minimum wage issue... Dear friends, there used to be 12.8 per cent income tax from minimum wage before the minimum income reduction. Now, we've narrowed it down to 0 to 5.2 percent. So right now, he's got four kids, a minimum wage, zero tax, three kids, 0.7, two kids -- if I don't remember correctly -- about 1.5. I don't want any of this...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0295par0544	Mr. Secretary, the price isn't enough, increase the price.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0293par0545	The percentage of all income tax collected from the minimum wage is less than 0.8%, but that's not the issue. It's about minimum wage... I've told you before, the minimum wage has increased by over 300 percent, and the minimum wage is many times higher than the country in which we are competing. You've got to see this, too. Dear friends, I can tell you about the Mediterranean: Now, I'm talking about the average price in privatisation of all previous power distribution networks, the price paid per megawatt/hour is 103 dollars per dollar. Now, the Mediterranean is $109 in the final tender. Look, why? Because in the 2010 tenders, companies -- actually -- they realized themselves, that maybe in time for megawatts, the prices that started at $2 million went up to $7 million. Therefore, not just one company over $300 million, not just one region, but almost all regions had to burn their guarantees. Why did they do it that day? Of course, we're not in charge of him. But today these tenders are very clear, transparent, competitive, open to everyone. Look, I'm telling you, these tenders have been made in the past, 8-9 districts have been privatized, the average price here is $103 per megawatt/hour, and the last Mediterranean is $109. So it's again the Privatisation Supreme Council of Appreciation. I'm just giving you the data. As for the taxi company, dear friends... there are many insurance companies in Turkey, so they don't have a monopoly position, and as far as I know, insurance companies don't make money on this traffic insurance. I mean, I'm not the insurance expert, but as far as I can see...
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0296par0549	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0293par0550	...when I used to be Secretary of State in charge of the treasury, I had a little bit of interest in the insurance industry at the time, so I know some of the industry's problems. As far as I know, it may have changed now -- in any way -- these are the areas that have always been damaged. But, of course, it's a competitive area. Indeed, we would support the access of our taxi-driver tradesman to insurance at more reasonable prices, of course, but there's no way we could impose a price on the industry, and then there's no insurance. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-18sit03spe0296par0552	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. According to the programme, on Wednesday (December 19, 2012), 11 p.m. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
