tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 103,000th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Y O L A M A We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Denizli MP Emin Haluk Ayhan, who asked about Denizli. Here you are, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0002par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised the province of Denizli. I salute the grand jury. After my visit to Denizli, I would come here and explain the problems of Denizli, and reveal the shortcomings, and this time I had taken the promise of the seaman, that I would tell him of the good things, but it was not possible. Look what happened in Denizli. She lost sea altitude on her college exams. So what? In 2006, Turkey was the first in the first place; 2007, 2008 Turkey was the first; 2009 Turkey was the third in Turkey; 2009 was the third in Turkey; 2010 was the fourth in Turkey; 2011 was the seventh in Turkey; 2012 was not the first in the first ten. He lost altitude in naval training. What did the AKP do with the authority of the municipality of Belde, the power of the nation to the presidents? He's been mugged. They receive articles from the management of the property, and they declare that they will not be able to process it. People don't get the authority they give. Who chose Bayram Silver, the mayor of the country? People picked it out. He's standing there, up there, what are you taking away from him? You're letting him process it; it can't happen. Another thing: exports began to decline in April, and the share of the textiles is waning. What fell in January compared to the previous month? The number of active and mandatory insurance has gone down. There were five tons of oil in the area. In the east, mule taxing the victim over diesel, but everywhere in Denizli, the oil is being sold in a clear way. The executive offices in Denizli have already been moved from 2 to 9, and the citizen has been devastated in order to make it easier for the citizen. Now Standard and Poor....the Denizli are as upset as I am....but the AKP people are angry. There's a real problem with foreign trade, real business. They're inevitable to create vulnerability. So, like us, what did the Denizli do to this conclusion? They're upset. Look, the Marine Industry Room conducts a general view survey every year. It's supposed to be a little better this year, isn't it? I'll try to share it with you a little bit. When you look at it in general, the cost of energy has increased from those polling in Denizli. The people who said "Energy has increased by 86 per cent." The people who said "Ham matter has increased by 74 per cent." The cost of investments has increased by 54 per cent. The people who said "Energy" increased by 60 per cent. When you say that for cable and copper wire -- an important sector for the marines -- the cost of energy has increased. The people who say that 100 percent has increased in intermediary goods. Those who say that 80 percent have increased in investment goods. The cost has increased by 80 percent. The cost of energy has increased in the soil. Again, 100 percent have increased in the intermediary product. Again, 100 per cent have increased in the investment property. Again, 100 per cent have increased in the price of employment, 50 per cent have increased. So, what did life do in Denizli? He got expensive, he got into trouble. 70 per cent of respondents don't think about investing in the country, they say no. One percent invested in a new sector. What's the ratio of loans in foreign currency to total loans? It's rising. It's 50/50 that renews the loan he's using. Otherwise, they won't be able to continue their activities. The proportion of those who agree that the loans have not changed is 64 of the 100 respondents. And when you look at their share in the total loans, it's about 60 percent. So Denizli is also suffering from financing. They're already saying the interest is increasing. What does 79 of every 100 pollers say? The interest on loans has increased, he says. Attention, all who have said, "It's a disgrace." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What do about about 40 percent of respondents say?
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0002par0031	The profit margin is down. It says, "We've hurt." That's it for now, and then hopefully we'll have a chance to move on. Thank you, Mr. President. My respects.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0004par0036	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Yozgat MP Ertugrul Soysal, who wants to talk about World White Cane Blind Day. Here you go, Mr. Soysal.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0005par0041	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to May 11th, World Blinds Day. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. All people are born equal, and in every aspect of social life, education, health and working life, they have equal rights to participate in society. However, in real life, some special groups do not have the rights for various reasons in terms of cognitive and physical differences. The disabled also form a category of this group, and like other members of the community, they are interested in all kinds of support in their daily lives. It is an important issue of whether all individuals of the community benefit from health, education, transport, employment and other services in the framework of social government understanding. So the services of our disabled citizens, a member of the community, are an important indicator of human rights. In this sense, world examples of France began in 1784, in 1791 and 1802, education for the visually impaired in England, while in 1889, the first education institution was established for the deaf and visually impaired in our country, which continued in our republic's history. In today's conditions, however, it is now imperative that all parts of our society take the necessary measures to benefit from all services. Important services have been started for our disabled individuals to benefit from these services in terms of digital and accessibleness, so that our disabled individuals can benefit from health and social services. Important social projects must also be carried out in order to promote disabled individuals who are unable to receive the services of the social state for various reasons throughout the country. It is especially necessary for our visually impaired citizens to be included in the audio broadcasting system and education system, and to be employed in both public and private sectors by disabled disabled persons who have been unemployed for various reasons, even though they have been educated in the same way. Also in culture, art and sports, important work must be launched under the leadership of our state and social responsibility for the participation of our visually impaired citizens, as well as all of society. Dear friends, another important issue is the sound warning system that we're starting to see in our major cities and the spread of sidewalks for those who don't see it now will be an important support for our citizens to participate in social life. To highlight, recent developments in social life and technology have increased the desire to benefit from these opportunities in visually impaired individuals, as all individuals have in recent years. However, these services provided by the state cannot be expected to be sufficient alone, with the support of the entire community, especially NGOs, for this service. The disability, the income level, whatever its status, is a social problem area that affects all parts of society. Statistical studies in different parts of the world show that one in four families has a disabled relative. In Turkey, our disabled citizens, which make up 12.29 per cent of the population, have been guaranteed the right to live equal, free and honorable lives, with the Law and International Conventions on Changes in Decisions of Some Laws and Laws, particularly our Constitution. An integral part of our society is the need for the understanding of social law, for the disabled to address and actively participate in social life by solving the problems they face in every aspect of life. The head of the Responsibility Administration of our concerned ministry has signed many projects to create national policies related to disability throughout Turkey along with its basic research on how society understands disability. Mr. President, I salute all of you with the desire that all of the projects and works that have been done to end my remarks have filled an important gap in the field by presenting public knowledge, perception, attitude, and perception of the community's disability.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0006par0051	Thank you, Mr. Soysal. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Sea Gezmiş and Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked for the anniversary of the execution of his friends. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0007par0056	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, whose final goal is the struggle to establish a right order, a classless and exploitive society, say, "Long live Turkey! Long live the brotherhood of Turkish and Kurdish people! Long live the workers, the peasants! Down with imperialism! I salute you all for the 40th anniversary of the death of Joseph Aslan and Hussein Aslan, who died on the gallows by the words of Deniz Gezmi, and for all the princes of the revolution who died. On May 6, 1972, exactly forty years ago, the revolutionary leaders of the 1968 generation, Deniz Gezmiş, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan, were hanged with a very clear understanding of the law that they had not shed any blood and defended the existing 1961 Constitution, although it was clear that they had not shed any blood. 1968 was the name of an active period not only in Turkey but also in the world. In fact, at that time in Europe, youth movements around the world, including the United States, expressed their reaction to the current structure. The 68 moves were opposed to racism, university administration, arms spending, poverty, inequality and injustice in the United States, the Vietnam War. The revolutionary leaders who took the lead in the European protests became leaders in Europe today, ruling their own countries, but their own revolutionary leaders, the shame and brutality of the execution of their youth, are only in Turkey. Sea Gezmiş and his friends walked to Ankara for the implementation of the 61 Constitution, and although the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, the Constitution of Turkey, was executed today by a decree called a curse, even though it was not the smallest act that required it to be judged on probation, notice, and asylum, although there were no concrete facts. The Sea Traveler is a revolutionary, socialist person. You will give your life to the revolution, not your spare time. It is a person who often repeats his word, willing to die without any personal anxiety. Our people plant statues like this in their memory and never forget them. Why was Seawalker killed? See why the Sea Gezmiş was killed - how it's defined: we've got steel handcuffs on our wrists that poverty can't bend. We spent the night in torture cells. If we wanted to, we could use our diplomas as a bond of purple thousands; we'd be architects, engineers, doctors, lawyers; we'd have summer-winner floors, cars. Our hearts beat with the labourer, and the peasant with him. We gave the best years of our lives to society like fresh flowers. They always wanted to destroy us. We were killed. The poor villagers in Giresun died for you. The tobacco workers in the Aegean, we died for you. The peasants in the east, without land, we died for you. Workers in Istanbul, Ankara, we died for you. In Adana, we died for you, the workers who collected white cotton with their hands in pieces. We've been shot, hanged, killed. Dear lawmakers, today, on a day of confrontation with the coup and reckoning, the first condition for dealing with the coup is to eliminate the coup law, to undermine the coup law. After the coup on March 12, 1971, the road begins with the removal of the law on the executions of Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin Believer, who were sentenced to death by extraordinary judicial courts. We have an offer on the law. This law is not about the return of the reputations of Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin Believer. There's no need to restore their dignity. The purpose of this proposal is to stop the falsifying tears of those who died of a coup and eliminate truly extraordinary unlawfulness and to eliminate the legal basis for their execution. The proposal for this law was submitted to the 23rd term of Turkey's Grand National Assembly and has not been processed. We brought him here according to Article 37, rejected by the Justice and Development Party's votes. The 24th term is again on the shelves of the Justice Commission. Now, I speak to my fellow Justice and Development Party friends, who are talking about dealing with coups, dealing with coup law, and supporting this proposal of law, I say we lift the law on the executions of Deniz Gezmis, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin Believers, and find the legality of coup laws on March 12, 1971. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0008par0066	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0009par0071	Mr. President, it has been forty years since the massacre of Deniz Gezmi, Yusuf Aslan and Hüseyin İnan. Those who agree with the death penalty by striking the ranks on that day are in deep silence and shame today, and these three young people are remembered in the squares 40 years later as the heroes of the people. Sadly, however, the phenomenon of the dependent country, which the seas sacrificed their lives to say, "To hell with imperialism!" on the way to the execution, has not changed. Not long ago, an American radar base was established on the Globecik, without even the knowledge of this Parliament, and Turkey's already dependent political structure became more dependent on its military structure. In this regard, we don't think it's enough to call them folk heroes. It is necessary to sever ties with imperialism and establish a full independent Turkey. If the seas are heroes, the Turkish Parliament must fulfill this will. I pay my respects to everyone.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0010par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has become a country whose agenda has been stolen, a country whose agenda has been sabotaged. The bill for the sale of land that lost its forest quality a week ago was passed. The law on free land was then brought to the attention of foreigners. The debate on privatisation of state theaters has opened. Following that, the commission of investigation of the coups was published in May 19th and the regulation that reduces national festivals to formalities. That's when the presidential system was brought up and debated. It's not all coincidence and it's not natural. People's agenda is being stolen. The AK PARTY is creating terrorism and preventing people from realizing what's going on. He's hiding vital changes to people's future from the public. That's why he's throwing shock-to-shock material at the community. The government imposes its own agenda on society, not on the current deficit, domestic and external debt, the import record it broke, the two-digit inflation figures, the electricity and gas increases that reach 20 per cent to the 20 per cent, the people's problems, such as unemployment, poverty and productivity. The government calls on Syria to put aside importing problems, to stop following Obama's agenda, to warn the Turkish nation to return to its agenda, to pay tribute.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0011par0079	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the May 19, 2011 earthquake in the province of Kütahya, after a year of aftershocks have been raging in recent days, but the government has been indifferent to this area for over a year. The bureaucrats in the earthquake area can't get the pain painting up there from their fears. I would like to invite the government's esteemed ministers to examine this earthquake and the fault line technically and to voice the damage to the region. A second issue is that many of our truck drivers, who carry cargo, are facing fines that are up to 5,000 TL, which start at $1,400, due to excess weight over 10-15 kilograms. I want the ministry to be sensitive to this practice that is crushing our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0013par0086	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Light, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0014par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I also pay tribute to the anniversary of the death of the Seas. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been unable to do any work this year due to the punishment of two out of three construction sectors, the engine of Erzincan Province. 300 constructions, 5,000 employees, contractors, construction suppliers, concrete firms are in a tough spot right now. The workers began to migrate. This matter needs to be resolved immediately because construction season is about to close. Furthermore, in recent days, more than 100 percent of farmers' water was raised. Our farmers, who are already in trouble, are in a difficult position. We demand that the necessary measures be taken and even reduced the increase. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0015par0094	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0016par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. We have 8.5 million disabled citizens living in Turkey; they are considered in four different categories as visually impaired, physically disabled, mentally disabled, and deaf. Our disabled people in Turkey are able to collect under very difficult conditions, to maintain it. I'd like to request that these be appointed to the empty staff of our ministries and public enterprises, the staff of the disabled. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0017par0100	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0018par0103	Thank you, Mr. President. In about 15 or 20 days, the wheat harvest will begin in Çukurova, and at the same time the watermelon of Çurova will come out. The price uncertainty on wheat remains, currently priced wheat under last year's prices. Despite the high price of diesel and fertilizer, the price of wheat is unfortunately below last year. We expect the government to come up with a solution as soon as possible, as Adana farmers and their representatives. Again, the watermelon, known from the outside as the watermelon of Iran, continues to enter -- a week and ten days away from the coming of the watermelon -- has to be blocked by the government as soon as possible, or our watermelon makers are already doing damage, and their damage will be greatly increased. I want to inform and warn the government about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0019par0107	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0020par0110	Mr. President, thank you. I wanted to bring up something like this: Sunday evening, there was a great flood in Kozan district of Adana, Bucak region. Because of this flood, many people were victims of a flood of crops, vineyards, fields, gardens, bees, fish farms. Before that, there was a project to build a pond in front of the River of Melmez, where disaster and landslide were declared. For ten years, the government hasn't done this pond project, and because of today's floods, the people of that region have been victims. I'd like to get the attention of the council and our ministers, the bureaucracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0021par0113	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0022par0116	My dear President, yesterday, İstanbul Eyüp Gökturk, horse meat was caught in butchers. It turns out this government fed our citizens horse meat. I'm calling from here now: you feed the imported meat, the pork, the horse meat, and the donkey meat to our people. Why don't you support our own village and develop our own pure race of animals, livestock? Kars, Ardahan, Erzurum, Ağrı, İğdir, why don't you develop animal potential in East Anatolia, but bring meat from the outside or make the country eat horse meat? In that sense, I beg you: let the government invest in East Anatolia, Southeast, animalism, and let Turkey get rid of this horse meat, donkey meat, pork. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0023par0120	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0024par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Business Health and Safety Week. According to recent research by the International Labour Organization, there are 270 million work accidents worldwide, one worker per 11 seconds and about 6,300 people die every day due to a business accident. Let us look at Turkey's report card for business accidents: 172 business accidents a day in Turkey. Four of them result in death and six others incapacity. The International Labour Organization (ILO) Turkey's Representative explains that Turkey is the European first in business accidents, the third in the world. Other than those who have been reflected in the public room, over 10,000 workers have lost their lives in business accidents in the last ten years, he says. EU statistics indicate that the rate of workers who died in Turkey is 7 times higher than the EU average. Moreover, most of the accidents caused by unregistered work do not exist in this data. I draw the attention of our government once again. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0025par0127	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. We're going on the agenda. The MPs, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, wanted to respond together to the proposals from the agenda of the "Frequent Questions" section 1, 15, 116, 117, 123, 130, 173, 221, 222, 225, 226, 232, 237, 295, 366, 394, 411, 415, 455, 492, 494, 523, 671, 740, 786, 899, 1045, 1046, 1094 and 1094. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was eligible to visit our country with its 2/5/2012 resolution, and its 23rd resolution, Moldova-Turkey's Inter-National Friendship Group. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the General Assembly's information under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is among the number of countries in the world in the diversity and quality of wine grapes produced, having large vineyards in the production of grapes. After Spain, France and Italy, the 4th country in the production of wine grapes. He's in line. The production of grapes is about 4 million tonnes, but only 2% of this amount is considered for wine production. This ratio reaches 90% in the countries mentioned. Turkey's share in the outside sale of 150 billion dollars of wine is around $4m. A state policy that does not change according to political authorities must be formed immediately to determine our current potential and assess it effectively and efficiently. The policies, especially our grape growers and industrialists, must include training for scientific and desired production for employees and needed technical staff in the sectors. The problems of vines and wine companies are known. The necessary support, direction, and necessary legal arrangements must be made immediately. Current applications are at the point of resolving the sector's problems and endangering the sustainability, future and the chance of competition in the face of current potential in these areas in the EU and in the face of developments in the world. It's a huge national advantage for our country to have the proper land and climate for the production of age grapes. However, it is another fact that wine vines do not have the required quantity and quality. A regional identification of wine-adjusted species needs to increase the production of quality wine-producing species. In our country, the definition of the geographical region of wine production is still not fully defined. Today, many countries have a share in the world's wine market, taking the grapes from the outside, and our country is 4th in the world. It's a landslide. But we have no current national policies or goals to improve our wealth. On the one hand, the winemaker is compressed by high taxes, while our vineyard is left to itself. Today, in our country, it is considered almost an ideological approach to winery, and sales and consumption are restricted. The wine industry is being punished. In our country, the producer must be supported, encouraged, guided and trained for the production of modern laces and quality grapes. As the vineyard develops, so will the production of fine wine. The wine industry is equipped with modern machines, with the most modern techniques for wine production. Wine is branded according to its quality, its grapes, its vineyard, and its territory. It is also possible to call this branding a transition from table wine to fine wine. Primarily Factors, which are effective in the development of Turkey's Wine Productions, are the choice of cultural transactions in grape prices, input prices, taxation in winery, marketing and organisation, advanced technology selection and education, suitable for different types of places and directions and different types of transactions. The adoption of a liquor license from the Ministry of the Interior and giving it to municipalities are required to renew it every year, and the ban on selling wine online also reduces the production and sale of wine and encourage the informal economy. The world climate, which has been predicted to change with global warming in the coming years, will be affected negatively by existing bonding areas, while some areas will be more suitable for vinery as they are. The vineyards produced in Europe make up about 45% of the world's winery vineyards and 60% of the production. There will be a gap in the wine industry due to future negativity by global warming in European countries. All of our national bond areas have not yet been fully recorded, and the climateological conditions and scientific study of the soil structure of the areas in which the links are located have not yet been completed. In which the best grapes will grow in the region, the OlV (Organization Internationale de la Vigne et du Vin - International Union and Wine Organization) are not necessarily transmitted to maintenance methods and production methods to producers, and the important winemaker EU countries have adopted for years has not yet been implemented in Turkey, and this nefariousness has weakened the competitiveness of Turkey's wines in domestic and external markets of BB quality wines, and table wines with geographical markings. It is a fact that there is no sustainable wine consumption culture in our country, that there are wrong, insufficient information and approaches. In our country, the development of laces, the determination of what needs to be done to grow quality grapes, the detection of problems faced by grape growers and winemakers, and the immediate resolving of these problems, increased employment in this sector, better quality wine production and greater foreign sales, and the measures needed to be taken in order to determine the measures needed to be taken in order to obtain greater share. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit to the investigation of the House. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] 10) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 16) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] 18) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] 20) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Boren mines are the most important underground resources in our country. 80% of the world's boron reserves are in our country. Since Bor is a strategic mine, it is not possible to be considered in any form of commercial meta and assessed within the framework of the free market economy. Therefore, the boron beds, run by private companies until 1978, were transferred to Etibank by Law 2172. Since Bor is a strategic mine, in 1983, the 2840 Law and the search and operation of boron salts were ruled by the state. 70% of the world's demand for boron is controlled by two monopolyes called US Borax and Eti Mines. Rio Tinto, the world mining giant, whose only rival is US Borax, is, in particular, the small-scale mining companies in developing countries are unable to hold on, and often have to melt inside the monopoly. The company RTZ US Borax, which owns an important part of the world's boron market, controls production, storage, distribution and marketing activities in a very large organisational structure. It's only natural for Bor minerals and their products to be produced and marketed by a public monopoly. Instead of small-scale companies that are messy and competing with each other, a single-handed execution of production, storage, distribution and marketing activities is the most rational way to maintain pricing discipline in the boron market. This also applies to other countries with boron reserves, and this is the practice. Borial minerals have over 250 uses. Borial minerals increase the added value of their ingredients, so they are called the salt of the industry. Developmental technologies increase the use of borons and dependency on boron minerals. While these facts are clear, there are allegations in mining circles that the BiH Billiton company is interested in our boron mines, that the General Directorate of Meat Mines will be autonomised, and as a result, it will open the way for privatisation. The European Union (EU) has listed boron chemicals produced from the boron mines as "a negatively effective toxic substance for reproduction." The products on this list are subject to significant restrictive practices during trade, and the boron products will not be exported to Europe and therefore to the world in the second stage, without a dry-headed labeling. This is no doubt a heavy blow to our mining. The EU began these studies in 2000, in line with EU Commission directive 67/548/EC, aimed at categorising, packaging, and tagging dangerous substances. Our country will be negatively affected by the implementation of these decisions, and political power will have important tasks. Interested ones must work together with vocational rooms and universities to come up with an immediate solution. Therefore, for the most efficient and efficient operating of our boron beds, for the production of boron minerals, for the marketing of the problems that have been first encountered and for the objective detection of the employees' problems and for the taking of necessary measures, the Constitution is 98th, Parliamentary Court 104th. And in accordance with the relevant matter provisions, we demand that Parliament investigate. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 5) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 8) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] 14) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Scholarship]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] 25) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Students coming to Izmir on 13 June 1980 to take the University Electoral Test were provided with their housing and housing needs in the student dorms of the Centre for Loans and Dorms. Students at the Izmir Figr Six Student Home held a pep rally in the dorm garden on 12 June 1980, the night before the exam for their student friends to take the University Audition Test. On this night, various local folk games were performed and sang songs. At the time of the festival, at around 21 p.m. and 9:30 p.m., armed soldiers came in through the gate of the dorm, opened fire on the students in the garden, killing five students and wounding dozens of students, according to official statements. Because of this attack, İsmail Baytak, Mehmet Ali Arun, Mustafa Beli, A. The deaths of Ihsan Tan and Hüseyin Akdağ, Erhan Topbaş, Emel Şahin, Sait Cacur, Hüseyin Özbaş, Orhan Zahur, Mahmut Çyşkan, Ömer Sarıtoprak, Oğuz İstir, Murat Çıkuşü, Bekir Sıkı Şenyurt, Oğuz Şahin, Orhan Zabun, Hasan Nergis, Ahmet Kamil Utkan, Hakan Erez, Cevdet İbrahim Morkacı, İbrahim Toy, Harun Azyit, Lütfu Zafer Demirel, Selahtin Öcal, Musin Ösin Okuryan, Erkan, Uskan, Uskan. The lawsuit after the incident lasted three and a half years. However, only the testimony of the two families was taken, the lawyers withdrew from the case due to pressure, and the case was eventually eliminated by the law, which ruled that the soldiers could not be prosecuted for their martial law. The Izmir 78s Association for Solidarity and Research, who have been working for a long time to expose and prosecute the people responsible for the massacre, are the 30th members of the massacre. In the year, he brought the case up again, calling witnesses of the massacre last year, asking to file a criminal complaint against the prosecutor who handles officer crimes, but their petitions were not accepted. The Izmir 78's Association of Solidarity and Research, which filed a criminal complaint against the statute of limitations, describes the part-a-half-hour massacre as follows: "A group of soldiers surrounded the walls where the students were staying, entered the gates of the dorms, kept their sirens on, and surrounded over 1,000 students singing in their dormyards and fishing. They announced a general call to the students on the megaphone around 9:00 p.m. After the announcement was made, the police sergeant, who got out of the vehicles, was ordered to scan the students in the garden for three minutes. Suddenly a student returning to the battlefield is running away in a hail of bullets in their dorms." Instead of the "law of the state," which is based on the state, the "law of the state," the "law of the state" of the people, the "law" of the people, the "law" massacre of the students at the Figral Student House of June 12, 1980; why, by whom, by whom, and by what means; how the perpetrators were not found; how the state was eliminated from responsibility, and how the judicial process was blocked by the actions of the state, and how the government of the students in our country had failed to perform constitutional democratic order by civil or military coups; in the wake of social, cultural, ethnic, religious, religious, religious, and religious differences; and how they had been created and killed in the country, and how they had sought to determine the role of the persecution of the students in the country, and in the process of the process of the process of the conflict, in which they had been involved in the process, and in the process, in the process of the process of civil and in the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of murder, and in which they had been found in the process of the process of the process, and in the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the conflict, in which had been linked to determined in the process of the process of the country, and the process of the process of the process of the process of the first state and in the conflict, in which had been linked to determined by civil and the first place of the first state. In the democratic state of law, it is everyone's primary duty to oppose all interventions against democracy and the will of the people, to defend democracy and law. Enlightenment of dark events, illegal organisation within the state, and exposing structures that provide the basis for the intervention of democracy are the primary work of the TBMM. For the reasons that have been announced, we ask that Parliament investigate the massacre of students at the Incir under the provisions of the Constitution and the Civil Code on June 12, 1980. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 2) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] 5) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] 21) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 22) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 23) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has four papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation led by Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek is due to make a formal visit to Macedonia from 15 May 2012 to Albania and from 17 May 2012 to Macedonia on the official visit dated 28/3/1990, and 3620 of the Turkish Parliament Speaker Trajko Veljanoski. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation from members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Interior Commission to Bosnia and Herzegovina on 21-24 May 2012, to respond to the invitation of Mirsad Djugum, chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament's Intelligence Control Committee, is presented under the 6th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0026par0340	The decision is sufficient, sir...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit01spe0025par0341	Those who don't agree... there's not enough of a decision, I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0025par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 103°th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly. Now, I'm going to re-vote the thesis to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted, there is enough to decide. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly 20 of the Constitution of Turkmenistan. On the occasion of the anniversary, the Turkmenistan Assembly will hold "20th of the Constitution of Turkmenistan, which will be held in Ashqabat on May 18-19 2012. The year is submitted to the 9th amendment of the General Assembly on the regulation of the Foreign Relations Council of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Turkey's 3620 to attend an international conference on the historic experience of the Strong State Staff. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary delegation consisting of members of the TBM Foreign Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Kyrgyz Republic Parliament International Relations and Parliamentary Co-operation Committee President Almazbek Baaderbekov's event. The parliamentary delegation's visit to Kyrgyzistan is presented to the General Assembly under Article 6 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the Advisory Board has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed, and then I'll vote for you. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday (08/05/2012). Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party The agenda has been adopted into the 3rd and 4th place of the drafts 201 and 224 in "The Law Bills and Proposals and Other Jobs From Commissions," and the order of other tasks is based on this. The General Assembly's continued work until Wednesday (May 9, 2012) the completion of the 224th draft bill in its merger until the completion of the daily programme at 2400 p.m., until the completion of the daily programme, It's the 91th Amendment of Bill 224. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. Bill of 224 Sorted Disaster Insurance Act [[1/583]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDES PART OF THE SCENE 1. Episode 1 to 9 2. Chapter 10 - Article 18 (Temporary Articles 1 and 2 are included) 11 I submit the counsel board proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration; I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My 2/34 Act Proposal is not in the Commission in 45 days, so the Civil Charter is 37. In accordance with the terms of the matter, I respectfully submit to the need to be brought up directly. 24.11.2011 As the bidder, Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt. Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0027par0061	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a promise on the law proposal I made to lower the interest on bank credit cards. I salute you all. Dear friends, I'll give you some numbers. The number of credit cards is 52 million and 180 grand. Credit card spending 102 billion 532 million. The credit card debt is 57 billion 705 million; the instalment debt is 27 billion, the non-instalment debt is 29 billion liras, and most importantly, friends, the Justice and Development Party against interest on these credit cards, let's see what kind of hand will be raised in this vote? Now, annual inflation, TÜFE average 10.45 in 2011. Look, TIFE average is 10.45. Credit card interest, 28.8% a year. What's going on? Double. And then there's the one with the credit card latency interest, so those who don't pay, and they're late, they're 34.8% a year. Guys, TUFE 10.45, we're paying 34.8. And you're a party against interest. How is this justice that I don't understand? That's not justice and development, people. Look, if you accept the bill I've given you now, please, then this is the TEFE, according to TÜFE, the interest on credit cards will be reduced by 10 percent and it will be a fair thing, dear friends. By the way, I'm telling you the executive files in Turkey: In 2001, you know that very heavy economic conditions came, and the overnight interest went up to 7 percent. When 10 million people were in action in 2001 -- see in 2001 -- in the time of the Justice and Development Party, the esteemed MPs, you raised them to 20 million in 2012, and you've got a good eye! You've raised 10 million executive files to 20 million. What's this? That's because of the high interest. This high interest must be stopped with absolute certainty. When normal TEFE, TIFE averages, we do something fair, dear friends. Dear friends, I just got a call from Jafar Zilek from Ardahan Lake. I'm giving you his name because he said to give it to you. Jafar Zilek lives in the village of Woodbreaker. He said to me: "I have received 32 million lira loans and I have received 32 million lira loans with Basakkart, but I have paid my debt, I have no debt, and there is no delay. Now I go to the Bank of Agriculture, and they say, "We will not give you a second loan. I have paid my debt, brother, why don't you give it to me?" Can that happen now, fellas? I'm calling from here, Mr. Hüseyin Beye, our General Manager of Agriculture Bank, please confiscate this. Now, look, dear friends, do you know what happens? Our citizens are being crushed because their credit cards or credit rates are high. Now, if a peasant asks a bank for a loan, bring in two civil servants, bring in three tradesmen. They say, "They're hard on a $5 million loan, and they won't give it to him." Then what's going on? He's sinking this peasant. The peasant doesn't want to do agriculture and livestock anymore. What happens when a peasant doesn't want to do livestock, and he can't? I heard it on TV today, and they sold horse meat in the city of Gökturk, which is Job. They sell a truckload of meat, horse meat. Oh, for God's sake, you're feeding us horse meat, donkey meat, pork, not giving our peasant credit and feeding him real animal meat. Can that happen, guys? There you go, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it, and there you have it. Okay, he's getting up, our country needs to get up, but we need to think about our village. So on the one hand, the interest on credit cards, on the other hand, the interest on the farmer, unfortunately, has put Turkey in a certain position, and I'm saying, I'm also asking you: that these credit cards cost interest and other interest rates, and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0028par0072	Please make your commitments. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0027par0074	In order for the interest rate of credit cards to be the TEFE-TIFE average, the Central Bank's relevant law must be changed by Article 26. Other than that, he says, "Let's give the peasant, the farmer, a loan to develop family business, let's make it possible, let's develop agriculture and livestock," and I give you all a lot of respect.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0028par0077	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Izmir MP Mehmet Ali Sesam. Here you go, Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0029par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised that Mr. Ensar Öğümüt, the esteemed lawmakers, have made an offer. He brought up an important matter, Mr. Öpün. The interest rates on credit cards are really high for our citizens who can't pay the full credit card or pay the mandatory requirement and pay the rest. A legal arrangement is needed, and it is one of the duties of this Parliament to make this legal arrangement. Why is it one of the duties of Parliament? Dear friends, a credit card is actually a means of payment, used as an advance money, but in our country today the credit card is used as a credit card, and therefore our citizens are largely at the point of spending their future income on a credit card. The reason he needs it is because of the lack of purchasing power under the circumstances of our citizen. Just as the government is dealing with the current account, the citizen's current account deficit is credit cards. Cari is a credit carded citizen to cover her deficit. That's literally the point of turning your business around. The banking sector is very generous in giving out credit cards, but it is also very generous in applying interest on a credit card. Now, in the face of this practice, born of the need of a citizen, we can't say that the credit card is a modern practice, yes. The credit card registers off-the-book economics in this country, yes. Then you'll have to put up with all the problems with the credit card. We don't have to tell the citizens. As a state, it is one of the duties of this Parliament to regulate the aspects of a good payment tool against the citizen. For him, interest rates applied must have a legal upper limit, and banks that use consumer loans should apply the interest rate they have applied to consumer loans in the same way to these credit cards. This Parliament must carry it out with a legal arrangement. I'd like to point out a second issue, which has never been discussed: there is an unfair competition due to the application of a credit card. Look, what's the unfair competition? Large shopping malls and adults use their credit card as they please with the bank system, making payments to them at the rate they want. A major store can apply to a bank for ten months, 12 months, or even 24 months without interest in a credit card, but when a small company goes to the bank and asks for these conditions, they are completely uncompromising. Well, can you tell him he's got a lot of money, a lot of money in the bank, he's dealing with the bank, he's making all the interest-free payments he wants? That's another way of unfair competition. That's why we have to arrange it. So it is necessary for this Assembly to organize and oversee the banking system that gives high interest to small businesses on monthly returns, which says that if you don't have this kind of money that doesn't give POS devices to small businesses, if you don't have that kind of money, you don't have that kind of money. Dear friends, this bill has been submitted to Parliament for this and has been brought before you today to approve it directly. Many credit card debtors are severely in debt, and there are suicides. He owes nearly 2 million credit card debtors, and small businesses face serious unfair competition from the application of credit cards. As valued members of Parliament, I draw your attention to this issue, and today I look forward to your support for this legal arrangement, and I salute your peace.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0030par0090	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. I submit to your votes...
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0031par0092	That's enough, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-08sit02spe0030par0093	I'll call the number of decisions I need, sir. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
