tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 92nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Kurıkkale MP Oğuz Kağan Koksal, who asked for a statement about the Turkish police force. Here you go, Mr. Rootsal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, as I begin my words, I salute you with respect and love. Today is the 167th anniversary of the establishment of the Turkish police force. For 167 years, the Turkish police have made the best effort to carry out the mission entrusted to him with glory and glory. Today, in honor of the year 167, I congratulate you on the Police Day of all our policemen. Gene, I ask God's mercy on our police martyrs who sacrificed their sacred duties and their duties and long life to our veterans. Dear President, members of lawmakers, there's one important thing that governments are usually responsible for doing, which is to protect their citizens' lives, their property and their integrity, one of the most important tasks. Here, the Turkish nation has entrusted the task to the police. In that sense, police work is an honorable task in return, as challenging as it is. So, while our police are doing their duty, it's in the zeal and determination to carry out the best of these transactions that are entrusted to him. When we look at the police force, every day, the agency strives to do its best by renovating itself, following the changing and developing conditions of the age. In particular, in recent years, our police force has taken great successes and steps in renovating itself, especially when we look at human rights, the rule of law, and relations with fellow law and citizens, which have emerged as a major virtue in recent years. Adeta, the police force has established a bridge of heart between the citizens and themselves and has entered a dialogue with the citizens over this bridge of the heart. Especially when we look at a community-supported police station, with a growing public-sponsored police function every day, it's a port where citizens are sheltered, but it continues its mission as a fearful dream of the lawless. At this point, especially when we look at the police force, our organization is carrying out its basic tasks, in the rule of law, with great zeal, and when we do this task, we see our police force in a great effort to bring our country above the modern civilization level, especially in view of the unbreakable integrity and unity of our country and the unity of our citizens. At this point, when we look at it, really, the police force has placed a position on our citizen's heart. As a matter of fact, when we look at the research done, the police have come and counted among the most trusted institutions of our citizen, and our citizen has every confidence in the police. In order to be worthy of this trust, our police force, under the light of all kinds of legal and universal values, is going to keep basic rights and freedoms, to maintain society's order, peace, peace, and security, to do everything in its power to put people's heads to sleep in peace, as they say, and to do so, without knowing time, without any difficulty, without any difficulty, without any difficulty. I'm here to express once again the joy of being a general manager for four years at the head of this agency. I think that being the head of that agency is probably the most important legacy I'll ever leave my children. Our police force has been better off, especially with technology and other forms of support. In particular, when we look at points such as the MOBESE system and the military exemption at the time of our government, the possibility of promotion given to our police again, our police are in more effort, more work. As a matter of fact, when we compare the past, we see all of the agency's data falling down. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish all our police the best once again with these feelings and thoughts. In the spiritual presence of our martyrs, I bow humbly to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Elazig MP Enver Erdem (e.g. Enver Erdem) who wants to speak on the same subject. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on April 10th, Police Day. I salute your high council. I pray to God for the mercy of six of my countrymen who died in the tornado disaster in the mining district of Elazig Province yesterday, and to all six of my people who were injured. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I congratulate you on the April 10th Day of Police Day of every member of this department from police officer to police chief. I express our gratitude and gratitude to our humble and humble policemen, who are willing to die for the peace and safety of this country, who are willing to sacrifice, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live, who are willing to live. Dear lawmakers, the police force, which has taken on many tasks such as the maintenance and security of the community, the protection of the citizens' basic rights and freedoms, the establishment of law enforcement and state authority, has provided security and security in this country for a hundred and sixty-seven years. Turkish police have carried out this sacred mission for a hundred and sixty-seven years under any difficult, even impossible conditions, and have gladly given their lives to ensure the peace and security of our country; it is an organization with many martyrs and veterans. Today, the Turkish police force is an organization that has taken place in the world, not only in our country, but in the tools and training and technical aspects of its use. Is the Turkish police serving under any difficult circumstances able to receive compensation for their service? The answer to the question, unfortunately, is no. In 2007 and 2011, before the elections, the AKP, which had promised members of the police, would be restored to their rights, unfortunately, broke its promise. We, the National Movement Party, have a duty to bring up our police's problems on this special day, at least once again from the council bench. Dear lawmakers, our police have important problems awaiting solutions. The first of them, officers who have graduated from university of applied sciences or university of applied sciences, will rise to the 1st degree, while police, police, commissioner, lieutenant, colleagues, whether they are graduates of university or not, they are unable to raise to the 1st degree, they are retired and receive very few pensions. The captain and his police chiefs are no different. That's at least 72 hours with the police at least 40 hours a week for public staff. Like other public officials, they are unable to benefit from weekends, religious and official holidays, New Year's and other holidays, and they are unable to pay for their hard work. According to State Officers Act 657, all officers receive additional indicators as of the eighth month, while the police receive only from the fourth degree. When the position and the severance of duties were taken into consideration, there was a distinction between the recently carried out Act 666 and the first-class police chiefs, who were only given part of this compensation, but many first-class police commissioners were not given these compensations, as were differentiated between them and other professions, as well as their own police commissioners. Again, different costs are being carried out between police officers working in intelligence, counterterrorism, organised crime units, and police departments, police stations, traffic, and headquarters police, which raises an important problem. Dear lawmakers, I would like to address AKP authorities and you valued lawmakers who have not dropped the expression "equal wages for equal work": Come, let us raise the salaries, pensions of our fellow policemen to the level of other public servants who are in similar service. Come on, let's remove the obstacles to the 1st degree of our college and university graduates. Let's support the law proposals and parliamentary research motions provided by our nationalist Action Party MPs. As he performs his duty for the peace and security of our country, he honors our martyrs who died for the country and the nation, thanking our veterans, celebrating the 167th anniversary of the police force, all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0005par0043	Thank you, Mr. Erdem. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Erzincan MP Muharrem Illum. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for the anniversary of the police force. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, I salute the 167th anniversary of the 167th anniversary of the national peace of the Turkish Republic of Turkey, a democratic, secular, social law state founded by the Great Leader Ataturk. My deputy just briefed me on the rights of law enforcement personnel. That's what I'd like to talk to you about first. You know, in the Act of State Officers No. 657, additional indicators of police officers who graduated from the university on the additive table were added in 1994, at 2200, in 1995. However, although police officers and petty officers are in the same collection situation, there is an additional indicator difference of about 1,400. This additional indicator difference must be removed immediately. Police personnel are subject to the Law of State Officers No. 657, and pension pensions are also severely reduced due to the fact that the additional indicator for retirement is 2200. Therefore, there is a gap between wages. We believe that these should be dealt with by our government and by our Parliament immediately. We believe that additional indicators should be raised to 3,600, and that bonuses and salaries should be made in line with today's conditions, and that work should be done as soon as possible. In accordance with the Law on State Officers No. 657, police officers, whether they are graduates of the university or graduates of the university, whether they are graduates of the university, whether they are doctors or not, cannot ascend to the 1st degree or the staff. We also think the study should be done about it. Although police officers who have graduated from high school have risen to the fourth degree of the first degree, they are paid at such a rate, they remain in the third degree's staff. So this, as I just said, reflects on their pensions. The duties of members of the police force have no effect on their pensions, as their acquishors are not being made. We also think that the inequality in this matter should be resolved. Of course, when police officers do all these difficult tasks, they're also people facing society. The tension of the environment that he works in has a psychological effect on our police. This often puts our police in a bad way in the face of a citizen because it confronts our citizen. Of course, the lack of autonomy rights, living conditions, living conditions, long working conditions also affect our police psychologically. There's also a need for measures to be taken. We see that our police occasionally wear them out in their practices against citizens. Of course, in doing so, we feel that we should not look at it as a person but as a person, that we should take precautions about what happened at the police station as an individual, that the government should give up certain social events, especially by giving instructions to the police, in a more positive way, that it should be distributed in a mutual way, that the police should be treated as the bad guy. The necessary work must be done on this matter, and it must be taken care of immediately. As I've just said, it's more accurate for the police to use disproportionate force, especially for the government to pay attention... whether it disrupts the public order, if it has any peaceful influence, to guide our police in that direction, and our police have taken their rightful place in society. I believe that, especially after the rights of equity have been corrected and their salaries have been raised, with good training, our police will now reach the level of human rights -- which has never been used badly -- to the level of civilization that suits Europe. With these thoughts and feelings, I have blessed those who died in their duties on the occasion of the 167th anniversary of the police force, offering my love to all of our officers in their service and wish them well. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0007par0062	Thank you, Mr. Light. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise 11 of our MPs off the agenda, ten minutes. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0008par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Our member of the three political parties celebrated this beautiful, meaningful day of our police force, but the problems of our organization were not specifically referred to by the power wing. Now as a government, you tell the police to build human rights. After that, as a government, you violate human rights against the police, you violate their rights; that's not true. I told you last semester, once again I warn the government that Turkish police are not afraid of martyrdom, but are afraid of retiring. I couldn't make myself clear. In ten years, the AKP government has not taken a step forward, and I want to make it clear in advance. We have a lot of problems with our police, and I'm asking the government to do a job instead of hosting them around here from now on, and also, why doesn't the government think that on November 24th, we're giving teachers a grant at the beginning of the school year, and I don't understand why you're seeing a salary bonus on April 10th, and I don't understand why you're seeing much of it.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0009par0071	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Topstone...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0010par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the 167th anniversary of our police force. Our police are the institution that provides safety and property for all of us. I find it very important for the safety and peace of the country to put an end to politics and the community's influence on our police, reminding everyone to be careful about it. I wish God's mercy to our policemen, who are martyrs for our safety and peace, and to our veterans, a healthy and honorable life.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0012par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Our screenwriter, our actor, the great artist, Coral Okaye, has been spared, so we've removed his body today. I wish him mercy, my condolences to his loved ones, my condolences to Turkey, and to those who can't even bear to die, I want to condemn them here once again. This week is also Health and Social Security Week. A week when the paramedics were made so worthless, they had no personal security, they were attacked. At the same time, this week in a country in which we are leading social security and business accidents gives us grief and distress. I'd like to rephrase that. I'm celebrating our cops, too.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0013par0084	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0014par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the 167th anniversary of our police force. Everyone is celebrating the anniversary of our police force, but in reality, celebrating the police force is about improving their salaries, wages, and working conditions. Police Day isn't exactly celebrated until we improve the economic situation of our police officers. I call on the ruling party to do the necessary work and act to improve the economic situation of the police. On the other hand, Turkey has recently faced many human disasters in our country stemming from human negligence. In the last week, six of our citizens were killed in a tornado in the Mining district of Elaziğ, Zonguldak Çaycuma, the bridge that collapsed in Zonguldak Çaycuma was a grave for 15 of our citizens, the explosion occurred in the construction of the Gökdere Dam in Kozan district of Adana, and 10 of our workers lost their lives. The overlap of extraordinary, unthinkable disasters requires a thorough examination of the matter. He says that a policy and security that gives our people enough importance should be brought into action, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0015par0091	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0016par0094	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to ask Your Grace, please. We also share the pain of our Zonguldak MP, Mr. Mehmet Haberal, and ask His precious mother for her blessings. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group again, we celebrate the 167th anniversary of our police force, giving our health and peace wishes to the entire agency's employees. There is no other institution in Turkey and all over the world where citizens are entrusted with the safety of lives and property. Therefore, we wish all of our police the best, but we wish that all of our police have an equal approach to all citizens, protecting the citizens' rights and law. In addition, while working on the pension of our police, compensation, compensation, and pensions are turning into birds. It's a shame about our police force. We shouldn't starve these people after they retire. If we have any loyalty to them, this Parliament must solve the problems of the police department in particular about their pension.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0017par0097	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0018par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the 167th anniversary of our police force. Today, at the same time, we understand the 75th year of secularism. On March 7, 1989, I'd like to present to you the definition of secularism by the Constitutional Court, a social breakthrough based on sovereignty, democracy and freedom and the composition of knowledge, a modern editor of political, social, and cultural life. It is the principle of freedom of conscience and religious faith by making it necessary for the individual to have the freedom of personality and free mind, by taking his dignity superior to his honor. Political organization and regulations are religiously qualified in religious societies based on religious thinking and evaluations. We are proud to be a citizen of Turkey's Republic of Turkey, one of the rare secular countries in the Middle East. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0019par0105	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0020par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. I congratulate all the police on the 167th year of the establishment of the Turkish police force. I bless our officers who were killed in the line of duty. I hereby offer my condolences to the mother of Mr. Haberal. On April 10, 1937, I also commemorate the anniversary of the entry of secularism into our Constitution as the basis of our republic. I'm celebrating the entire team that made that constitutional amendment happen. This is where the AKP government says it will immediately bring a study on the agenda of the police's socioeconomic problems and we will support them, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0021par0112	Thank you, Mr. Original. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0022par0115	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating the 167th anniversary of the Turkish police force. It's also World Health Week this week; I pay my respects to the entire medical community, everyone who's worked on it. Mr. President, in the last week in Turkey, unfortunately, people are dying for natural reasons, but unfortunately, as a result of the negligence of executives, many of our people have lost their lives as a result of people's insensitivity. And I demand that the government take the necessary measures on this matter immediately, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0023par0118	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0024par0121	Thank you, Mr. President. We've lost the beautiful man, Meral Okay. A shooting star, we won't forget. The police's 167/year anniversary expects the Council of Political Forces to eliminate custody from police custody, from the sultan of power, from modernisation, from promotion, from appointment of records, and from becoming an instrument of judgment over the opposition, highlighting the fact that the state and the public are police. We think that the Parliament should take over the police force, which is a very important agency in the field of human rights, law and democracy, to ensure its independence, to save it from political custody. With all due respect.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0025par0125	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0026par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. The 167th anniversary of our police force celebrates the mercy of God to our fallen policemen, who gave their lives for our country, and I wish our veterans health and happiness in their future. At least here today we were hoping we could discuss a matter of police working conditions and rights, but I'm afraid that's not the case with the government. In the coming days, there will be an urgent arrangement for police work conditions, working hours and pensions -- at least with the government's bill. Unfortunately, at the moment, most of our 250,000 police officers are working overtime in violation of the ILO contract, in violation of human rights. I wish all our police health, happiness and success. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0027par0132	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0028par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. I lost my mother on April 5th. I would like to thank all of my fellow congressmen, who have expressed their condolences on the death of Mr. Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek. With my mother's death, once again we saw the collapse of the health system in our country, we saw that there was no place in public hospitals, university hospitals, in intensive care units. By the way, I've also learned about the death of Mr. Haberal's mother. And my condolences to him. I wish for a health care that all citizens of our country can receive without money, quality, equal access.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0029par0139	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0030par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. And I wish all police officers the best of luck. More than 500 people from the Ministry of Health's central service were appointed on Friday (April 6th) and were announced on Monday (April 9th) to start their new institutions. Among those who have been transferred due to personnel surplus are those who have passed away, retired, even those who do not work at the Ministry. There's been a massacre. I'm calling on the Health Department staff to put an end to this mission and this human drama. It's the Health Minister who's been running this ministry for ten years. I strongly condemn the understanding that separates these people from their families in a week's time of union membership, and I invite them on a mission. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0031par0146	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0032par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. As the National Movement Party Group, we celebrate the day of the Turkish police; we wish them health, peace and demand that the entire Parliament meet the commitments made to the Turkish police on behalf of our Parliament; we also invite the government on this matter. Security forces must be morally high so they can fulfill their duties. Promises made to Turkish police must be fulfilled. Again, we've made a motion to investigate. We'll make sure this is discussed here. Again, I express our regret over the death of the mother of Herr Professor Dr. Mehmet Haberal. As the National Movement Party Group, we offer our condolences to Mr. Haberal, our condolences to the deceased, and to all his relatives. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We demand that the law known as the News Act be discussed immediately.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0033par0155	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0034par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. As the AK PARTY group, on the basis of the 167th anniversary of our police force, we extend our love, respect, appreciation to all our officers here, and at our mercy to all the police who have been killed in their service, to their families once again offer our condolences, and to our officers who have been injured in their duties, and who are in a difficult situation, we ask God for healing and ease. We welcome all members of the police with their families here with appreciation, love, respect. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0035par0161	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0036par0164	And I'm celebrating this day for every member of the police force on the 167th anniversary. I'd like to see their rights improved a little bit more, their non-existent overtime paid at once, I'd like to ask the government. On this occasion, I also offer my condolences to our friend, Professor Mehmet Haberal, who lost his mother. At the same time, Mr. Medina Haberal, the grandmother of Erkan Haberal, a member of the National Movement Party's Central Board of Directors, wishes God's mercy. I expect our fellow MPs to be free from this captivity, persecution, and return to us as soon as possible. I also warn you of Syria: Stop acting as someone's pariah, we have no account with Syria, don't fight Syria! Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0037par0169	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Finally, Mr. Original, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0038par0172	Thank you, Mr. President, for promising me a second time. I, on this occasion, do my duty to warn you that the government's hasty attitude towards Syria is a move that leads the country to disaster, leading our country from the United Nations, from the European Union, and leading the country to disaster by making a war cry, and I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0037par0174	Thank you, Mr. Original. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of National Defence, asked for answers in the agenda to 1 3, 110, 112, 133, 134, 135, 149, 151, 164, 173, 182, 183, 204, 222, 233, 234, 236, 237, 241, 252, 260, 269, 330, 331, 346, 414, 464, 466, 496, 415, 542, 542, 578, and 578. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on April 3, 2012 and on the 20th decision of the Council of Ministers of Turkey, was appropriate for Mr. Maria Vamvakinou, chairman of the Australian-Turkey International Friendship Group, and the parliamentary delegation with him to visit our country. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Head of Parliament Research Commission No. 177, 1778, 179, 180, 181) has a thesis on the election of chairman, Vice President, Speaker, Clerk and Clerk, which will contribute to the development of the State's Economic Developments (10/136, 176, 176, 1777, 178, 179, 180, 181). Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission is President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk Members 15/03/2012 Thursday at 18 p.m. At 00, the Public Relations Building B Block 2, the Parliamentary Research Commission, located in the 4th Bankroom, met with 13 members in the Assembly Assembly Assembly Hall, whose names were written below, and the members were selected for the following tasks. He's got a vote on his name and his last name. President: Halide İncekara İstanbul Mv. 12 Vice President: Ascendant Özla Mv. 12 Clerk: Çiğdem Münevver Öşek Öşün Öşn Mv. 12 Speaker: Basic Coshkun Yalova Mv. 12 It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a motion for a geneorization, which has already been suppressed and distributed to members of the board. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On the grounds that Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin's festival celebrations and KESK's education law have been banned by protesting events, that security forces have used excessive violence in many provinces after their instructions, that hundreds of people have been killed and that over a thousand people have been taken into custody, we propose and propose that a geneor be opened under Article 106 of the Constitution under Article 99 of Institution. For thousands of years, the festival of Newroz has been a common celebration of the peoples from East Turkistan to the Balkans, especially the Middle East. It has been celebrated every year in our country by mass events, especially Kurdish people, since the '90s. In 1992-93, hundreds of our citizens were killed in the area of the State of Emergency by Jitemin, dark forces, the coupkers, the gangs. Thousands of villages were burned during this concept, thousands of unsolved murders committed by criminal organizations on behalf of the state. Events have not occurred in any of the festivals of Newroz, which have been allowed and celebrated enthusiastically over the past decade. The BDP celebrated its festival in 20 years of political tradition in the squares of Newroz. In accordance with Articles 34 and 90 of the Constitution and Articles 10 and 11 of the ECHR, the right to meeting and demonstration without prior permission is one of the basic rights and freedoms within the framework of EU integration laws and reforms. During the 10 years of the EC Party's rulings, within March 21st and week, our party celebrated the festival of Newroz. In 2012, he made a decision to celebrate in 138 places, and he made plans and took many permits. Two days before the celebrations, however, the Interior Minister sent a bulletin to all provinces, announcing that all celebrations except March 21st have been cancelled and banned. However, Despite the ban, the AKP's City of Job held celebrations on March 19th, without permission from its ministers on March 18th, and last year the Ministry of Culture applied a double standard on the government's permit, which celebrated with its official ▪Newrosis programme for a week. The festival of Newroz is the festival of the peoples, with historical cultural dimensions. And since it's not a state holiday, it's not allowed to be banned, and it's a constitutional violation. The same application was applied to KESK members who demonstrated their democratic response to the education system 4+4+4. An understanding that violates travel freedom, commits freedom, abuses democratic responses, tortures, detains them has become systematic. The Ministry of Interior made an illegal decision, and many cities, especially Istanbul and Diyarbakır, have been cut off, and security forces have attacked the masses and used extreme and disproportionate force. During the attack, gas bombs were thrown from helicopters, streets, streets, streets, and there have been brutal acts of torture that have been destroyed by the public attack of security forces. In Istanbul, BDP Albanian village manager Hadji Güç lost his life, was attacked by a group celebrating a holiday in Cizre, armored vehicles, Tomalar, Panzers, gas bombs and long-barreled guns were destroyed five times as many as the building was destroyed, including the district chief, and hundreds of innocent women were taken into custody. The Gaza footage has been released to the media in Cizre. Official security forces in Batman province have attacked MP Ahmet Türk and injured him. There have been similar attacks on lawmakers in many counties. Although martial law is not declared the State of Emergency, the practice of the actual "War State" is carried out. He is responsible for the deaths of the Interior Minister who ordered the attack, which was banned by the general order. A totalitarian regime that threatens public peace, inflicts violence on opponents, and is responsible for the enormous pressures of a totalitarian regime, and is unauthorized, irresponsible, insubordinate with the language and the language that he uses, triggers racism, hatred, Kurdish-Turkish conflict, attacks NGOs, turns out to be the uncontrollable power to promote criminal superiors. It would be appropriate for Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin to open a gene for the Constitution under Article 98th and 99th and 106th Article 106th. It has been presented to your knowledge. A group proposal covering the day of the meeting on whether or not your client will be released will then be submitted to your votes. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our country has taken important migrations from the early years of the Republic. Apart from the migrations based on mutual exchange under the Lausanne Agreement, the migrations to the new world order have continued until today through wars and conflicts that have established infrastructure. In particular, since the 1980s, our country has been flooded with migrations from densely populated areas of Turkish origin, especially in Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia. These people, who are of Turkish origin and often come to our country due to ethnic political pressures and economic and social negativity, want to apply for Turkish citizenship soon. These people, who have migrated to our country, leaving goods, property, and goods, are trying to make a living on minimum wage, because of the investigation process and the three-to-five years of citizenship transactions. In this case, they often find it difficult to even pay their housing fees with the help of their spouse, friends, and relatives. In particular, it is clear that in 1989 the mass migration from Bulgaria to our country has raised a number of problems so far that these problems have yet to be resolved. Not to be taken into Turkish citizenship, No work permit granted, The problems of elderly pensioners, The problem with non-committal working times (social rights) Problems stemming from housing law, The problems of non-employees, It's an exfil problem, Problems to receive a housing thesis, The problems faced by the Local Register Offices, The problems of education and equality are listed as problems. The failure to produce a permanent solution to all these problems, the temporary leave and exemption of approach to the problem, is a major loss to our relatives over 1.5 million. As a matter of fact, this has been noted in the past period, with various exemptions provided by the Council of Ministers' decision in 1989, 1997 and 2000, in matters such as housing statements, tuitions, and so on. 11th of Turkish Citizenship Act 5901, which took effect on 29/5/2009. The period of residence in the Article is 5 years, but it has been granted a plea of residence for our relatives from Bulgaria who arrived in our country before the general elections on June 12, 2011. With this pardon, the right to receive a residence certificate from Bulgaria to Turkey before 1 January 2011, if they apply to our relatives, who have not been accepted for Turkish citizenship and have been residing as fugitives in our country until the evening of July 8, 2011. The fact that this pardon covers only those from Bulgaria has created a separate debate on the principles of rights and equality. All such examples show that the problem has been approached by periodical and temporary methods and has not been made any progress on the road to a permanent solution. On 1701.1931, however, the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said "Muhacirers are the national memories of our lost countries," pointing out that our descendants were as fundamental to the state of the Republic of Turkey as they were to the Turks of Anatolia. Unfortunately, however, the problems of "the national memories of our lost countries" have so far been insensitive, and the same procedure in the citizenship code has been applied to our descendants. In this direction, the Constitution is 98, with the aim of identifying and resolving these problems that do not suit the size of the Republic of Turkey. TBM Interior Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. With all due respect. [[Scholarship]] [[Ardahan]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] 11) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İzmir]] 13) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 15) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Mersin]] 23) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 24) Osman Faruk Logoglu [[Adana]] 25) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Army]] [[Malatya]] [[Erzincan]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] 33) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Çanakkale]] 35) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] Projects called Support of Court Management System Projects and jointly carried out by the Justice Department and the Council of Europe are in accordance with the Turkish Judicial System and whether it harms the defence profession; The Constitution is 98/3. It's 104. And 105. We submit the consent of our request for a parliamentary investigation to be carried out in accordance with the required procedures and commissions for the necessary examination, in order to share the results with the public. 20.10.2011 The basis of our request for parliamentary research into "Projects Supporting the Court Management System," jointly conducted by the Justice Ministry and the European Council Project Office; A joint study by the Justice Ministry and the European Council Project Office is conducted under the name "Profession Management System Support Project I and II." In 2007, Aydın, Konya, Mardin, Manavgat and Rize Courthouses were selected as pilots' courts, and in 2009 the project was selected as the first. It has been implemented in part or entirely, as the physical conditions allow, in our courts, which have been described in its steps. In addition to the project, 20 iI, including Eskişehir and II, were also called "Property of the Court Management System Project II," and again Pilot zones were envisioned, which was intended to be implemented in 2013, with the aim of ending the project in two years. The project aims to create physical, restricted space, semi-restricted area, front office, consulting tables and guidance systems in the courthouse. The project has many negative aspects. But it's impossible to understand the expected division as limited areas. Restricted areas are judge and prosecutor's rooms, semi-restricted areas are pencils, and courtrooms are open to everyone. Restricted spaces, such as judge and prosecutor's rooms, will be closed by glass or by any other system, and the carded access system will be applied or will be on guard at the entrance. Since lawyers and public access cards are not available and will not be provided, pencils that are half restricted can only be entered by permission from the front office. The First Law of Law. Under the matter of lawyers, "the founding element of the trial..." TCK. 6. There are no lawyers in the foreseeable system, although the law is clearly organised that lawyers are "judgmental." There is no valid explanation for the failure of lawyers to enter the court's kitchens and the open, closed departments of the court, while judges, prosecutors, clerks, bailiffs, executive staff and tea makers can enter without any restrictions. There have been huge problems in the five courthouses where the project was implemented. Since lawyers cannot enter the judges and prosecutor's chambers, which are considered a restricted area, appeals have been granted to the pre-offices at the time of certain deadlines, there have been loss due to lack of rights. Decisions were made too late, such as foreclosures and precautionary measures, when the files for photocopying were not in the front offices for days, when they were asked not to be given a report at the hearings. There have been many more compromising procedures, debates, loss of rights. Local temporary solutions have been found in applications, not satisfied by citizens and lawyers. Mardin and Konya have filed a mistrial against the project, but it has not yet been concluded. The project has no legal basis. This project, seen as only for the purpose of the consumption of money from European Union funds, will bring in practices that are not in line with the Turkish legal system, which are not in line with our understanding of "judge father." At the same time, these practices that will make it difficult to seek rights will also wear off the practice of law enforcement, causing new challenges to arise. European experts in charge of implementing the project are generally selected from Germany and the British, and such an application does not exist in their own country. It is not possible to understand the implementation of a project that has not been implemented in their own country. It's hard not to think of it as a blow to our judicial system that can't reach the desired level. It was not right to expand the application without expecting the results of the lawsuits of some of our barmen. As a matter of fact, Ankara, Aydın, Balıkesir, Burdur, Çanakkale, Denizli, Edirne, Eskişehir, İstanbul, İzmir, Koğatahya, Manisa, Muğla, Tekirdağ, Uçe Baro's joint press statement is also a sign of distrust and objections against the project. Turkey's Bar Association has also announced its opposition to implementation and expansion of the project in various environments. As a result, understanding and practices that have pushed his lawyer out of the judicial system and his lawyer is not a founding factor in the judiciary, but an obstacle are about to become dangerous. For these reasons, the Constitution is 98/3. Article 104 of the Institution to be examined in accordance with matter. And 105. We ask that our motion be decided in accordance with its provisions. We'd like to have the matter investigated by a special commission to set up. [[Eskişehir]] 2) Aydın Agha Ayaydın [[İstanbul]] [[Ardahan]] [[Antalya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Army]] [[Mersin]] 11) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 12) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] 13) Osman Taney Örkurk [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Mughle]] [[Erzincan]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 26) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 27) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, 98, and the Civil Code 104, and 105, in order to determine the measures that must be taken by investigating the issues of martyr families and veterans and their disability. The 10th article of our Constitution, Article 12/9/2010-5982/1, is written as "The measures taken for the widows and orphans of children, the elderly, the disabled, and the martyrs of war and duty cannot be interpreted as contrary to the principle of equality." Again, the 61st article of our Constitution includes the decree that "the state protects the widows and orphans of its martyrs and protects the mauls and veterans and gives them a proper level of life in society." In our country, there are martyrs and veterans who died and were wounded by the War of Independence, the Korean War, the Operation Peace of Cyprus, and finally the fight against terrorism. In addition, many of our public servants, such as teachers, judges, prosecutors, doctors, nurses, health officials, have been victimized by terrorism or lost their lives or had to suffer for the rest of their lives. Since our laws do not have a clear definition of 'the martyr', many men who died in the line of duty, officers, officers, police and civil servants have been named "the property of the state," their families have not been able to carry the pride of "sacrificing" for their wives. For the sake of our country, our nation's indivisible integrity, independence and support, thousands of soldiers, police and public officials have been martyrs, veterans and duty in the fight against separatists, especially the PKK. Families have sacrificed their most valuable assets for the cause of our country, and our veterans have lost their health, body integrity, but have not stopped saying "thanks for the time being." It is our duty and our duty as a state to restore the eternal souls of our heroic martyrs and to honor, honor, honor, and maintain the dignity of our veterans, who put their country ahead of their child, body, and health. The practice shows that the wages and compensations taken by the families of the martyrs, the veterans, and the malnourisheds are not enough, the disorganisation of the legislation, the cumbersomeness of the bureaucracy, the lack of clear criteria of the law, are still responsible for the families of our heroes. It's obvious, especially when we don't wish that the news of the martyrs is not cut off behind its back, and it's not cut off by this false terrorist policy. For these reasons, we respectfully welcome the opening of a Parliamentary Research in accordance with Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to ease the suffering of our heroic martyrs and veterans' families, prepare for them a high-quality and social future, identify their problems, and determine their solution proposals. 1) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Kayseri]] 5) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Tripoli]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 13) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Antalya]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 19) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, that I shall have it read and processed and then submit it to your votes. 10:04.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 10,04,2012 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 28 March 2012, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends gave him 803 rows (803 rows). Lu) has been recommended to be read in the presentations Tuesday (June 10,04,2012), as part of other proposals waiting to be submitted to the Turkish Parliament for the information of the General Assembly in order to determine and investigate the problems of asylum seekers who have come to our country due to internal conflicts in Syria. In favour of the proposal, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0039par0480	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. Something really important is going on. General Commander-in-Chief Mr. Gul calls to the young officers, saying, "Are you ready for war?" Watch out, that's what the Commander-in-Chief says. Then, from China, the Prime Minister, in the Church, 21 people were killed by the conflict within our borders, including two other citizens who were injured. When he hears about it, we'll do it. He says. The number of refugees was 26 thousand, from Antioch to Milis, from the church to Ceylanpınar. They now have accounts to build a new place in Cizre. These are very important things, guys. It's a war we're talking about, one step at a time, one step at a time, and 900 kilometers south of us, where we live together for hundreds of years, where our history, our culture, our traditions are intertwined, we're talking about a Syrian community and kinship, and we're seeing the world's camping in the face of what happened in Syria. China, Russia, Iran on one side, America on the other, other countries. On the other hand, there is a terrible tension of a Shiite-Sunni conflict in the Middle East. This is happening in Syria, it's happening in Iraq. Hashimi is coming to Turkey, notice that Iraqi-related and Iranian nuclear summit Istanbul meetings are being held at the same time, Kofi Annan has gone to Hatay, and again, the senior officials of the United States have met with the President. While all this is happening, the Foreign Minister is leaving, the Prime Minister is talking, the President is talking, what's Parliament doing? Isn't this the will of the people, my friends? Isn't this where people decide? If a war is to be waged against a country, if a soldier is to be sent across the border, shouldn't the decision of the dissolution come out of this House? On such a serious matter, can you, my friends, enter the Hatay camps where we stand out on March 28th and take risks beyond that... that we can't get into? If I have friends of Hatay's MP here, please tell me, can lawmakers go and visit Hatay camp in peace?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0040par0485	We can go.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0039par0486	They say there are different education, organizational activities, or accusations are being brought from Syria to Turkey, where it is said that Turkey is arming Syria's armed opposition forces. Such accusations today are immediately in the press. On the other hand, the Syrian Friends' Meeting is held in Istanbul. The Syrian Friends' Assembly is in Turkey; there is no Alevi in Turkey; there is no Sunni Kurds in it; there is no Kurds in Syria; there are no Suryans already living there; there are no Armenians; there are no other minorities; there are no other beliefs. We don't understand what kind of Syrian Friendship Meeting is being held. We're not involved in this, but the government's doing something. The government's doing something, the government's talking to someone, the government's doing something with the U.S.A., that's true, but this is the step, a brother, a brother, the beginning of a dangerous adventure that will lead us to war, and if the Clave is anywhere, we need to sit down and talk. Yeah, what does national law, international law say? What does war law say? What is refugee law? What's the status of the defection? Why doesn't Turkey give refugee status to people from Eastern countries? Why isn't the United Nations refugee status involved? Of Syria, 100,000 took refuge in Jordan. Not only is Turkey safe, but the civil war in Syria, the conflict in Syria, they also go to Beirut, they go to Lebanon, they go to Jordan, and they go to Iraq. Now, you need to see this well. Shouldn't the Minister of Foreign Affairs come here with three opposition parties to make a decision together, to make a decision as part of Turkey's foreign policy? The Prime Minister says, "President Gul, are you ready for war?" Is war easy or is it child's play? Do you think it's easy to fight in the Middle East, to enter Syria, to engage in the civil war in Syria? It's a boiling furnace, and there are certain desires to throw Turkey into this boiling accident, don't we see that? There are understandings that want to make enemies of people who have lived together for thousands of years, who want to make enemies of one another. Of course, we'll be on the side of human rights, law, equality, democracy, the will of the nation, we'll be against dictators, it's human, it's modern, it's universal, we'll condemn the same mentality in Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister, at such a critical threshold, China is also concerned with China. He's going all the way to China. He goes to Washington, he talks to Obama in Seoul, he talks to him everywhere. He's coming to the House tomorrow for a war thesis, but there are four party groups in this House, and he doesn't need to call his leaders and talk about it, and he doesn't need to talk about it. It's not that easy, guys. Your majority is 49 percent, even if you run an anonymous company, you should have over 50 percent of your shares. 51% of Turkey is not in your share. There is no way for Turkey to give up its fate, the fate of our people, the future of our people, to war spending, to the warlords, to the hungry eyes of the wild capitalism that redesigned the Middle East. When will the leaders speak in this House? I've been here five years, can you give me a picture of a leader for five years? Can a leader of the four party groups together give us a picture of them, Parliament? You don't see a single photograph in the archives of the House.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0041par0491	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0039par0492	No, you can't show me one. There are four council groups, show me a photo. Last semester, there were four of us, four of us. No, guys. Look, we're going to open a general meeting here, if necessary, closed session... if there's any sensitivity, if there's really something that the government can tell us and convince us, let's have a closed session, or else we'll have an open session. Come on, let's agree on a meeting in the entire House, we'll talk about it in general, we'll form a common policy, we'll be together, we'll be together, we won't make any cracks, we won't make a sound. No one takes what you say seriously when you're not united in your own home, when it concerns Turkey's destiny. That's foreign policy. It's about emotion, it's about emotion, it's not about small interests, it's about foreign policy. Our brothers and sisters also have a place in foreign politics, and our Sunni brothers also have a place. Since the Ottomans, Turkey's history has united different peoples and cultures for thousands of years. We certainly benefit from such research. That's why we submitted this motion. We don't want war. We want a peacemaker. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0042par0496	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Against you, Congressman Fuat Karakuk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Blackbird.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0043par0500	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group to open the Peace and Democracy Party's investigation into Syrian refugees. I salute your high council and our beloved nation who listens to us at the beginning of their screens with love and respect. The 167th anniversary of all of our law enforcement agencies is celebrated with my heart's heart, and I wish you health and peace. My condolences to the late Medina Haberal Ma'am, who has been sent to eternity, to God's mercy, and to his grieving family, and to his loved ones. As you all know, it's described as refugees, asylum seekers, asylum seekers, emigrants. The greatest man left to be a refugee is the last Prophet Muhammad Mustafa and his fellow litigators to be sent as a mercy to the worlds. The best of men is the best of men. By acting this way, it is not possible for us, as people who believe in these feelings, to remain silent in the face of these events and to abandon people to their own destiny. We consider it a great shame to expect people of the 21st century to be indifferent to this shame. Let's take a look at what's been done in our province for our Syrian refugees so far. In late 2011, a container city was established in our province by Prime Minister Afet and Emergency Management Presidency in order to provide temporary protection for Syrian citizens who have been granted temporary protection under international law and regulations by our country. AFAD President and TOKI signed a protocol and agreed that the infrastructure and construction of the camp should be carried out by TOKI. The Pioneer Customs Field is south of the Hajj Housing Facility, and is five miles [8 km] from the centre. The Hac Housing Facility is surrounded by private-owned transports of citizens of Turkey north of Turkey, minefields in the south, pioneer customs area in the east, and private property of citizens of Turkey in the west. The Prime Minister's Office of Afet and Emergency Management, dated 29/12/2011 and 8551, announced the construction of the container city space for Syrian refugees at the Pioneer Customs Landing Facility. The container in question is city area 12. It is designed to accommodate a thousand people and consists of 2,001 containers. As of 17/3.2012, 9,171 Syrian guests were placed in the container city area as of 10/4/2012, from Hatay Province and Öncepınar Border Gate. Of these, 1,955 are women, 2,332 males, 2,419 females, and 2,465 boys. The containers contain one kitchen, one bathroom, and one room. Two helipads were built east of the container city area. 125. A thousand square meters of hardwood has been coated. There are 2,001 containers in the field. There are 11 electrical transformers. The sewers and drinking water line projects are complete. The total sewer line length is 12,250 meters and the drinking water line length is 12,500 meters. The field contains 5 120 litres of modular, 600 litres of volume water. Ten thousand waste-water treatment tanks have been placed. About 15. 13 square feet of parking space. A thousand square metres of sports and open spaces are reserved. Five children's playgrounds and the floor-responsibility work of the sports facility are complete. The 300 square feet area is also designated a day care area, and the daycare centers are planned in the form of tents. About 19,000 square metres of land was planned as a green area. 1 containers are assigned to PTT (PTT) and 1 containers to the Agriculture Bank. Security road sathi plating complete. While the pilgrimage was being used as accommodation facilities, the missing fences surrounding the field were completed with fences, and the outer line was completely covered with galvanized hair...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0044par0508	Brother, we're going to war with Syria, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0045par0509	Tell us about Syria, Syria... you're telling us stories!
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0043par0510	You'd better wait a minute.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0044par0511	What are you talking about when you're going to war with Syria?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0045par0512	It's one of the 81 provinces of the Church.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0046par0513	Go ahead.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0047par0514	When we talk about field attacks, we need to consider the attacks in this area.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0048par0515	So the road's been built, 30 tents... what are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0047par0516	It's obvious you haven't read the subject inside the motive.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0049par0517	Mr. Blackbird, address the General Assembly, go ahead, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0050par0518	He's dropping bombs from Syria, isn't he?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0051par0519	You're putting Turkey to war, brother!
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0052par0520	...and the area is isolated from possible attacks. From the outside line to the inside of the field, a 20-meter security line has been left behind to create a buffer zone. The container was built as a concrete wall located east of the city's site, along the main line, along the customs area, about 1,500 metres long and 10 feet high. The rest of the interior line was built as a wire fence eight feet high on a six-foot concrete wall. There are five gates of intervention on the security road line. Three meals, including breakfast, lunch, and dinner, were given by the company within the camp for a week. During the next period, it was designed to cook in everyone's kitchens in containers. There is also a distribution of baby food, milk, and diapers. The drinking and use of water are provided from the field drilling wells and the city's water grid, while the hot water needs are provided with thermocyphones installed in bathrooms. The containers are 21 square meters, with two rooms, with an electric stove in each room.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0053par0529	Why didn't you do a three-bedroom?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0052par0530	Two of the containers in the campsite are assigned to health managers, with 112 emergency personnel and an ambulance serving 24 hours at the campsite. There are two steel-constructioned mosques in the field and they are being built.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0054par0532	Who opened fire, who?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0052par0533	Each mosque is a thousand people, with a space of 325 square meters. The schools were built in a two-story and steel construction system. There are 3 schools, including 2 24 classes and 1 16 courses. Two of the schools were planned for elementary school and kindergarten and one as a high school equivalent. The container has 170 square meters in the city field, the building of our national training directorate. It consists of four offices and two multipurpose halls. Five social facilities have been projects in the container city area. These buildings include vocational course rooms, Internet halls, television viewing rooms, and laundry rooms. The area is surrounded by 15 towers of steel construction systems and armoured cabins. The skeletons of the surveillance towers have been installed and armored cabins have been placed on them. The towers are located on the security line, which is located outside the field and is 20 feet [6 m] wide from the outside line to the inside. It is 840 square metres of the Kızılay warehouse, and 840 square meters of the area is reserved as a market. Three markets were built there. The 250 square metre area police department is divided into administrative buildings, and 300 square metres is reserved for the security service building. The building was built as a one-story steel construction, and the riot squad was created by foreign units and outpost units. The health department has been placed within 500 square feet. There are 50 beds of hospitals in this health department building. Guests from Hatay province were first arranged to be placed in containers with the escorts of the AFAD officials after receiving recordings, interviews, fingerprints and photos from the city's office prepared by the city's police department in the Pioneer customs area. After being placed in the campsite, all necessary services and housing have been carefully carried out. Surveillance of the camp over the fiber optic line with MOBESE has been completed, the tenders are completed, and security is on the line. There are no human rights violations in the camps. ...has not been identified as being sold...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0055par0546	Please make your commitments.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0052par0547	... I can't relate to what they're going through. The significant data on the activities of Syria and our intelligence in the camps has not been detected. Circumstances in these camps are perfect enough for the world to be close to ideal and to be modeled by the public. In conflicting terms, we don't see it as the right move to increase people's pain. We have knowledge and experience that can solve problems. On this occasion, I have a debt of gratitude to our esteemed ministers, our governor and his deputies, our mayor and his staff, the president of the AFAD, the president of the Turkish Cypriots, the Chief of State Health and his employees, the State National Education Director and staff, and all those who have worked hard.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0056par0552	Thank you, Mr. Blackbird. In favour of the proposal, Hatay MP Refik Eryılmaz. Here you are, Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0057par0556	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of its proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into asylum seekers from Syria. The riots and conflicts in Libya, Egypt, Bahrain and Yemen, which had previously begun in Tunisia, are the result of the Great Middle East Project. The events of Syria must also be assessed. The campaign against Syria is a conspiracy of international imperialist forces and war monopolys. The AKP government serves the interests of imperial forces in the Middle East, with its statements and attitude. What we've been through so far and the government's attitude has clearly made that clear. Syria, the United States and Israel are seen as a barrier and a danger to the interests of the Middle East, like Iran, on the West's blacklist. The international community is trying to arm and support opposition groups, including protection and protection, training and logistic support -- which Turkey is clearly doing -- to launch on Syrian police and soldiers, on the other hand, using the international press to massacre the Syrian government against its people, violate international law, to launch bombs on the people, to set the stage for international intervention. The new Middle East plan redeploys the Islamic world. At the beginning of the past century, the Middle Eastern people, divided into dozens of states, are now faced with much deeper and more dangerous challenges using ethnic and religious differences. In the Middle East, the Sunni block against the Shiite block is drawn into a debate that will mark this century. Didn't the Israeli Foreign Officer Oded Yinon come up in 1982 with a suggestion that Iraq should be divided into three, Lebanon should be divided into five, Syria should be divided into four? Syria had to be drawn into a religious conflict. Sunni countries are trying to confront Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Turkey and Egypt; Shii Iran, Syria, Iraq and Lebanon Hezbollah. The segregation is fueled, simultaneously transferred billions of dollars to the opposition of the regime and armed. Syria is wanted to be punished for failing to submit to international power and the Great Middle East Project. Using embargos, sanctions, internal conflicts, support and arming opponents, the country faces danger of division, chaos and external intervention. In the coming days, the entire region will be shaken by the conflicts of Shii and Sunni, followed by the rebellion of ethnic identity. This is the perfect storm that Hillary Clinton was talking about. Syria will not be the last link of the coup production in the Middle East, under the name of the Arab spring, and this raging wave will then reach our borders. And those who stand by the wrong-doer while they are cleaving shall not forget that their turn shall come to pass. Prime Minister Erdogan, who claims to be the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project, is our internal issue in Syria. His approach is nothing more than to dynamite the brotherhood of the peoples and to support the warmongering of imperialists. Syria can't be our internal issue; it can be our neighbor, who we can live in peace and respect for national integrity. Turkey must immediately free itself from policies that bless US-axis war and occupation. Even if an international intervention is unfairly decided, we can't keep the imperialists pure because of our historical and cultural ties to Syria. We shouldn't side with the war. Imperialism has brought to the peoples of the world nothing but war, destruction, death, and occupation. The destruction of the Syrian people by war must never be allowed to invade, plunder, and divide their land. Clearly, a war in Syria will affect the region and lead Turkey into the Middle East swamp. In recent days, the Prime Minister's increasingly aggressive and non-national diplomatic polite speech, warmongering, sows the seeds of years of hostility and hatred between the two countries' peoples. A year ago, the Syrian Prime Minister and his government came to the brink of war with Syria on such short notice, calling Syrian President Bashar Assad until yesterday as a friend and allied country, including a mutual visa exemption, the basis of the dam of peace and friendship with Syria. No one cares about the democratisation of Syria. The goal is to create a new puppet government to serve the interests of international forces in the Middle East, as in Tunisia, Libya, Egypt, and other Arab countries. In Iraq, the AKP government, which has never made a sound about the deaths of 2 million Muslim civilians and the rape of hundreds of thousands of innocent Muslim women, has somehow been cut off as a hawk in Syria. Shouldn't you ask those who don't drop their bullshit on Arab countries that they're going to take democracy to: What country did you take democracy to? Libya, Egypt, Iraq, Bahrain, or Yemen? The AKP government supports the opposition group by using armed force to overthrow Syrian rule, a neighbouring, friendly and sister country, with terror and caution. A colonel who identified himself as the leader of the free Syrian army has made it clear to Turkey that he lives in Turkey and the outside press that he is protected by Turkish security forces, that he is trained in private, and that he is fighting against Syrian rule, that he is carrying out armed actions against Syrian military troops and police intelligence officers and that he is leading these actions from Turkey. Mr. Prime Minister, aren't you the one who says that every chance you get, the terrorist has no religion, no language, no race, no nation and no homeland? You're the one who said, "Where does terror come from and where does it come from?" From the beginning of the events, 2,500 Syrian police and soldiers were said to have been killed by these opposing forces. How right is it to create an impression of support, rather than condemning these armed attacks against the soldiers and police of Syria, a neighbouring, friend, and sister country? Global forces pushing the button to bring down the government in Syria not only give weapons and training support to opposing groups but also try to create a basis for a military intervention that is intended to be seen and seen as a massacre by the current government against the public. News and images, published in the media, fueled hostility between Turkey and the Syrian people, and fueled hatred of Sunni-Alevi in Turkey. This is the greatest evil that can be done to our country. We also see a number of games in Turkey's secular, Ataturcian, leftist and nationalist groups who oppose the AKP government's Syrian policy have been put in motion to break the resistance. As a matter of fact, the recent attacks on the Syrian Embassy in Turkey, the Turkish flag, and the Ataturk poster were part of the game that was intended to be played on the Syrian border two days ago. The AKP government must reconsider Syrian policy. Current policies harm the national interests of our country. Border trade has come to a standstill, and the local tradesman, industrialist and exporter is in great economic distress. Our people in the region are deeply concerned about a brother fight that could happen. If the government really wants the blood flowing in Syria to stop and to establish peace, it must support the Annan Plan. The AKP government must free itself from international forces' oppression and oppression. It is clear that a war in Syria will affect the entire region and will lead Turkey into the Middle East swamp. Turkey should not be allowed to be dragged into such a swamp. The AKP government's policies do not serve the country's national interests, but they also threaten our national security.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0058par0572	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0057par0573	Turkey, led by Mustafa Kemal, and fought for national liberation against imperialism with the support of the people, cannot maintain imperialistic ambitions against its neighbours, according to the principle. A contrary attitude is the worst thing to do to our country and our people - to be dragged into an uncertain adventure, into the Middle East swamp. It is the duty of all lawmakers under the roof of this House to stand up to this dirty war and the brotherly quarrel that is intended to be created. I invite everyone to stand up to this dirty war, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0058par0575	Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz. Against the proposal, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0059par0579	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I must first state that Turkey is on the brink of a war, there are conflicts at the Turkish border, and the AKP ranks are empty, and everyone is talking to each other here; the view of how the AKP is trying to take out the Turkish Grand National Assembly at this point in Syria in this sense is the view that we are facing here today.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0060par0581	You do your talking!
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0059par0582	Dear lawmakers, the country is on the verge of war, you realize that. In fact, you realize that because you want to put the country to war with your own hands. For God's sake, instead of dealing with PKK terrorism, Mr. President, plant the Turkish flag on Kandil. When you said, "What are we doing here?" You were saying, "What are we doing here?" Now you're trying to get Turkey to go to war with Syria. There's an Annan Plan going around, but the Deputy Secretary of State of Foreign Affairs of this country, Vice Secretary Naci Kora Sir, says: "The Plan of Annan is stuck. You're the one who undermined Annan Plan, you're the one who doesn't support peace, you're the one who provokes war, and I have to tell the truth, even though it pains me as a member of this country. You have a duty to maintain peace in the region; you have no responsibility to provoke war in the region, to play revolutionaryism in the region; this nation has not given you authority in the region to fight for the interests of America, Israel, according to your mind. Look, you're making KCK arrests, and you're doing it right. What is the purpose of the ACK? The purpose of the ACK is to build a four-part Kurdistan, and the ultimate goal is to block Turkey with the Armenian-Kurdistan-Israel wall, the Turkish world and the Islamic world. Well, Iraq's been interfered with. What was the result of the intervention in Iraq? A Kurdistan was discovered there. Syria is being interfered with, and in this intervention, unfortunately, we see the AKP's government at the forefront. A similar structure will be discovered again. This will not be limited, for if the ultimate goal is to ensure Israel's safety, the destruction of countries in the region will continue to strive to change their regimes. In the ultimate goal, Iran will be reduced, and a Kurdistan will be removed in Iran, and as a result of this revolutionary play of yours, Turkey will be told: "Come, let us control the regions of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey." As a result, after integration with the Southeast Anatolian Region, you will form a fabricated state with your own hands. Dear lawmakers, have you ever thought about why we've become like this with Syria today? What do we have against Syria and the Syrian regime? Of course we'll be against dictators, of course we'll have to answer for the loss of the lives of innocent citizens there, but when we're asking that, we need to get involved in the internal affairs of those countries and ask them about it, we need to get in and out of the camps that we're responsible for and maybe get into a provocation that triggers a fire. We will, of course, be pro-democracy, we will try to bring democracy into the region, but we can't be the subcontractor of democracy within the nail that America wants to bring to the region. Dear MPs, when these events arise in Tunisia, let me also say that from 1968, the people have studied all the movements of the world up to now, and as a brother who wrote this book, we have expressed that this is an American project, the implementation of the Great Middle East Project, which the Prime Minister has expressed. You probably know what America's Deputy Foreign Minister Condoleezza Rice is saying. In 2003, Rice said that the borders and regimes of the two countries will change. It is what is being done today, and what is being done today is the game of changing the borders and regimes of twenty-two countries in the geography, including Turkey from North Africa to Central Asia. If democracy is to come to the Middle East, Syria, it must first come before the war. If there is going to be a change in the Middle East, Turkey must maintain its neutrality if Turkey is to play a leading role here. Today Turkey is unfortunately not neutral about Syria. Today, Turkey must look for ways to be active in the region, but its effectiveness is Turkey's intervention in Syria, not Syria's warmongering. When the Prime Minister meets with Mr. Obama, the Prime Minister says it's time to intervene. US President Obama says we need to keep our cool a little longer. What have we become? Instead of America saying this and us calling for coolness, we're more of a royalist than a king, so to speak. The President of the United States, let's maintain our coolness. When we say that we are in every environment, the international community must intervene. Members of parliament, the Republic of Turkey is a great force in the region, a great state, and this great state must make peace with the fighting parties in the region. Whereas we, unfortunately, are warmongering in the region instead of reunifying the fighting parties. And while we're doing that, there's something so important that one of your deputies showed up here: we've done this many miles, we've built this many houses. No, it's a three-bedroom, five-bedroom, view of the sea. The country is on the brink of war, and look at the things you're talking about. The country is on the brink of war, precious MPs. You can't take this nation into combat by taking this House out. You can't bring this country to war by taking this House out of the loop. You have no right, and we will not allow it. Of course, we'll be there in the face of people dying, but we can't open the way for new people to die, to become martyrs to the new Mehmetchiks. You'll have to consult our nation, our House, on this matter. You can't put this nation to war with the bargains of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Davutoglu, behind closed doors. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party, we have repeatedly warned you about this from the Parliament's bench, and warned our people in different environments that the country is going to war. We have arrived at what we say today, unfortunately, and this country is about to go to war today. The sin thereof is on you. But remember, your policy on Syria, like Iraq, will give us, as a result, a Kurdistan in your lap. Today, you, unfortunately, will carry out the KCK, which we have fought against the nation, by waging war against Syria. Is it up to you to keep Israel safe today? The Great Middle East Project is a project to ensure Israel's safety. You set up a base for Malatiah to protect Israel. In order to protect Israel, you set out in the region, saying, "Almost zero problems," so that there was no country we didn't fight. On the one hand, you'll call Israel one minute, and in 2011, you'll increase trade with Israel by 40 percent. Do these things! People are writing it down. But you can't put this country to war. You can't bring this nation to war by confronting what's happened. I'll rephrase that. You have to force the parties to make peace with Syria as soon as possible. The President of Syria wants written guarantees, he says: "I am willing to withdraw my troops, and let those who draw guns come to me, and let them guarantee in writing." You make a statement here, and say, "Esad has lost credibility." Assad is, of course, responsible for drawing weapons against his own people. In the face of history, in the face of international courts, he must answer for it, it's another matter. But you can't do that.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0061par0596	Who's going to do that?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0062par0597	You're gonna do it?
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0059par0598	You have no such duty. This nation has not given you the authority to go and play revolutionary in other countries, and this nation has not given you the authority to take Mehmetçik and spill his blood in Syria. So, come quickly, and we'll discuss what's going on in this House. This is the People's Assembly. There may be a majority of you, but based on that majority of you, you can't put the country to war. Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Davutoglu interrupted his visit to China. Annan is visiting the region today, where she will move to Iran. If you're going to make an effort in the region, it must be the effort of peace.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0063par0600	Please take your word for it.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0059par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. It's not like we're supposed to be warmongers or triggers of new sectal conflicts in the region that will cause new bloodshed. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0064par0605	Thank you, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0065par0606	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0064par0607	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. [[There's the AK PARTY lines, there's the voices.]] There isn't.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0066par0611	Mr. President, if you ask your clerks... those friends have a job there, you know, you're not alone.
tbmm-2012-04-10sit01spe0064par0612	Thank you for reminding me, Congressman! I'll give you two minutes. Please... [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
