tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the opening of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBM Charter 104, and 105, in order to investigate and determine the issues in our country's Fisheries and Water Products sector. 07.12.2011 1) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Erzurum]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Kayseri]] [[Yozgat]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Adana]] 16) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Paddles]] [[Mughle]] [[Tripoli]] 20) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey is a peninsula surrounded by the three sides of the sea, with an 8.333km coastline and 177,714km long rivers. The total surface area of our marine and internal water sources is 25 million hectares. That figure is close to the total agricultural areas in Turkey. Therefore, effective use of fishing resources is of great importance. The fishing industry, on the other hand, provides direct employment for 50,000 people. However, the fishing industry's contribution to GDP is 0.4 per cent. Its economic value is found in 100 of them, but there are about 200 species of fish in the Black Sea, 247 in the Sea of Marmara, 300 in the Aegean Sea, and 500 in the Mediterranean. On the other hand, the increasing decline of natural stocks has increased the importance of cultural fishing in meeting the protein needs of the rapidly growing population worldwide. According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the water products growth sector has grown by 6.6 per cent year-on-year, becoming the world's most developed food production industry. Currently, 37 per cent of global production of water products is provided with productivity, and the long-term growth sector is expected to pass the hunting sector in terms of production. As a grower, China provides 62 per cent of total production and leads by a distinct margin. China is followed by India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Bangladesh and Norway. Turkey's share in global growth is 0.29 per cent. Although there is great export potential, at times the problems of the fisheries industry in meeting internal consumption require the implementation of new policies on support, incentives and conscious hunting and marketing in the sector. Because in many countries around the world, the water products industry is rapidly moving away, and Turkey has been transformed into an unprovoked industry that deals with many problems without any vision or planning. Furthermore, the biggest goal of the fishing industry is that hunting should be done at the right time and with the right species, without disrupting the ecological system and balance, while the problems with unplanned, unregistered and unconscious fishing are rapidly draining resources. On the other hand, in our culture fishing, it is clear that a number of preventive decisions are necessary to ensure that the cold chain remains intact and no problems arise. Some measures and measures must be taken, such as not being allowed to transport through vehicles that are not in the European Union standards and do not have a cooling system. It is of great importance for the sector to have fish farms established and/or established in our country established in line with EU norms and to have them established and supervised and expanded to cover all water products and provide export support. The fisheries and water products industry is experiencing many significant challenges in production, breeding, quality and sales. There are many problems with fish production and consumption for reasons such as instability in fish prices, the lack of fish wholesalers in EU standards, the lack of infrastructure in fishing shelters, the lack of efficient use of our seas and other water sources. It is clear that a government and private sector co-operation must be first needed to address the problems of the water products industry. Water products should be made into schools that produce knowledge and technology. The fishing sector needs protection, development of water products co-ops, development of legislation on control of troll hunting, fish conditions and brokers' taxes and loans to be tied to new foundations. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation into the solution of the fisheries and water products sector needs to be conducted as soon as possible to examine the problems related to the sector, to implement policy and measures for solving them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tekirdağ Ili, Çorı Province, Karatepe Station is planned to set up a solid waste Bertaraf plant in the fields of Wheat-Sunflowers, which have agricultural fields a mile and a half from the centre of Chorus City. Due to Turkey's biggest project, which will be Turkey's "Cat Waste Bertaraf Facility," is considered to be dangerous and seriously threatening human health and possible environmental damage, the people of Corridor, scientists, environmental institutions, and reports that they have made, are opposed to this dangerous waste facility that will be established. This facility, which will be built on a land that needs to be protected, appears to lead to the deployment of nearly all of Turkey's dangerous wastes to Syria because of the Chorus. Without further examination of the facility, regardless of the consequences of the region's demographic structure and its involvement in the earthquake belt, it is this close to the centre of the facility, and 1. The fact that the degree will be placed somewhere inside the farmland poses a great danger to Chorus. The company, which will build the plant, is said to have rented 160 acres of land from the treasury for 49 years, which is described as a first-class farmland in the records. Once activated, the facility, which is scheduled to reach 850,000 tonnes annually, will be the center of a disaster in Corridor. Hence, due to a facility of this capacity, the traffic problem created by hundreds of trucks that brought tons of waste to Chorus, already under the threat of environmental pollution, will be a complete environmental massacre as a result of video pollution, and it will affect human health. The facility, which will be built in this region as productive farmland, will also cause pollution of the surrounding soil and thus the end of agriculture and livestock. For all these reasons, the decision made by the Corridor City Council has been revoked and the zoning permit for the solid waste disposal plant in the Karate region has been issued. However, some institutions and institutions, especially the company that will build this facility, insist that such a facility be built. They also base their insistence on a CED report that is unscientific, conflicting, and in need of confirmation. The 13th Law on Land Protection and Land Use 5403. The substance regulates the aimless use of agricultural land. In this scope, the EPDK's electricity production license and permit for the region included biodiesel production, dangerous barrel washing and many other electrical productions, including all dangerous waste from the Department of Environment and Forestry of Time. And unfortunately, unlicensed activities were reported and approved by the Ministry on 29,06,2010 by the EPA. For all of these reasons, the investigation into all the details of the CED report was given by which criteria were evaluated, E. P. D. K. The Constitution is 98, 104, to investigate the possible negative impact of the production permit granted by the country and the permits and reports granted by other relevant institutions and ministries and such a facility. And 105. We respectfully present the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission in accordance with the clauses. [[Tekirdağ]] 2) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[Adıyaman]] 10) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Antalya]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Gaziantep]] 17) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 18) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[40s.]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 25) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The detention and execution institutions and detention centers are the largest working group in the Ministry of Justice. Even though the ministry has the highest-employment staff, it doesn't charge any overtime. Working hours in many prisons are 40 hours a week, 240 months a month. Since there is open opinion in prisons during official and religious holidays, punishment and execution institutions and prison workers cannot spend any holiday with their families. No work is being done for these personnel within the ministry. The employees of the penal and execution institutions and detention centers should be in the safety and safety class, such as law enforcement, but are in the administrative service class, subject to the Law of State Officers No. 657. This causes prison personnel to be unable to receive overtime. Therefore, the prison staff, who are working during the day, officially on holiday, without listening to the holidays, are one of the lowest-paid classes in the public. The right of non-security and security personnel to form a trade union and become members of a trade union has been limited by being considered a security and security service class in the organisation of Public Officials Unions Act 4688. The right of prison personnel to form a union in terms of their rights, the right to join a trade union, which is part of the administrative service class under the 657 State Officers' Law, but is also removed from their rights to form a trade union and become a member of a trade union under the Law of Public Officials' Unions Unions of 4688. The 5510 Social Security Act is 40. On the basis of the risk of work and security, the period of actual service for some professions has been envisioned, while punishment and execution institutions and detention centres have again been excluded from personnel. Criminal and execution institutions and detention centres, which are constantly in a one-on-one relationship with prisoners and prisoners, are psychologically more worn out than other professional groups. For these reasons, our Constitution is 98, with the aim of identifying, uncovering, and resolving the problems of criminal and execution institutions and detention centres. Article 104 of our content. And 105. By establishing a Research Commission according to the requirements of the matter, we respectfully submit the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. [[40s.]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Niğde]] [[Aydın]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] 10) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] 16) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 20) The Way of Love in the womb [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] 22) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a resignation notice from the commissions, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our 4th party. I've been elected as a member of the MKYK at the usual Congress and appointed as Vice President by Mr. President. Due to the intensity of my duties at headquarters, I resign as Member of the Plan and Budget Commission. 11.10.2012 It has been presented to your knowledge. Mr. Hamzacebi, you have a request.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0002par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow is October 13, 2012. The date of October 13th is one of the times we can call the milestone of the Republic. Like April 23rd, May 19th, August 30th, the date of October 13th is also significant in the process leading to October 29th. On 13 October 1923, Ankara was declared the capital of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The motion, issued by Ismet Inönu and four of his friends, was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and designated Ankara, the capital of the republic, which will be declared by the young Republic of Turkey. The people of the Republic who founded this beautiful republic, who designated its capital Ankara, are praised by the Grand Leader Ataturk, and I salute them on behalf of the People's Party Group of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0003par0201	Thank you. We move on to the special agenda's part of the agenda. We are starting talks on whether the foreign policy he follows is dangerous and far from the facts, that it is not in line with national interests, and that there is an opening of a gene for Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu (11/13) mainly on the agenda of Gensoru Örgesi (11/13). Government? He's in position. I do not re-read the motion because it has been printed and distributed before and has been read in the 4th Union of the General Assembly, dated 4/10/2012. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, a member of the Council of Ministers, an MP on behalf of political party groups, and a Prime Minister or Minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers will be promised in this meeting. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motionr, 20 minutes for the group and the government. Now, I read the names of the members in question: Övlüt Çavoğlu, İstanbul MP; Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP for the People's Party Group; Nazmi Gür, Van MP for the Peace and Democracy Group; Hurşit Sun for the People's Party Group; Mevlüt Çağoğlu for the AK PARTI Group; Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmet Davutoglu for the People's Party Group. The first statement now belongs to Istanbul MP Osman Kuruturk, who has the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0004par0215	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu of the Foreign Minister, in less than six months our party has had to submit a motion for a second gene. In less than six months, I've been renegotiated on behalf of the gene-responsors on this account of Mr. Secretary of State. I have to say, I'm sorry about that. In less than six months, the two motions for genera were not presented to the Supreme Assembly, none of the ministers who ruled Turkish foreign policy in the history of the Republic of Turkey. That's where we've seen it. Turkey's foreign policy has reached a very tight spot. Turkish foreign policy has entered a complete stalemate, but our policy on Syria has completely narrowed it down and made it inextricable. Last week there was a meeting of the Turkish Armed Forces about Syria to be sent abroad, and this statement was held in closed session. We've been waiting for secrets to be said. Why do we insist on NATO? Do we have a plan, do we want to bring him in at some point, or do we have another purpose? We thought we'd be told, none of this has been discussed. We went through that closed session with some information that didn't go beyond newspaper information. Now, folks, this NATO thing is a really interesting subject. We say that we are far superior to Syria at every turn; in terms of deterrentism, if we take action against Syria, we enter Syria at this time, at this time, at this time. Our fellow MPs make time measurements from television screens, they give clocks. Does the government really believe in our power or not, why do we want NATO? When we call on NATO, we call on it to address the 4th article, which envisions consultations in the face of a threat, but we do not use the 5th article against the attack to summon NATO. In NATO and the United Nations, we have the impression that the Minister's meeting with the Minister, our other Western allies, our other friends, they don't seem to want to get too involved, they don't give us a serious green light, they're even trying to hold our hand, they say, slow down. That's what's seen, but is that the truth? NATO Secretary General has had an explanation recently. NATO Secretary General said in his statement: "Our plans are ready to support Turkey. For those who don't know very well, for those who don't know the technical details, perhaps this can be a very striking, striking statement, NATO suddenly says we are ready, our plans are ready." In fact, it is a declaration that plans are to be prepared, because for every country in the context of NATO's Allied Defense concept, for twenty-eight countries, the plans for each country, which we call the Plan "Contingency" in English, are prepared and have to be ready. In the event of an attack, in the event that this attack is in accordance with international legal legitimacy and is in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Act, the NATO Council is obliged to provide support, assistance and support to countries within Article 5 of the Article 5 of the Law. We all know we've been through this before. It's been run once already. After the shooting of the Twin Towers, the 5th article was operated on 12 September 2001, and there was no further operation of it, but this concept is a concept used and used to secure NATO alliances and to ensure its unity in small countries, and is related to the basic mission of NATO (also known as the collective defence mission). Now, if Rasmussen is talking about, we're ready to support Turkey. We have what he says and what he calls our plans. In accordance with this 5th article, all my friends need to know something very well. According to NATO's basic principles again, NATO's reinforcements to Turkey must be within Turkey's borders, which means that if NATO is to reinforce Turkey within the framework of Article 5th, those reinforcements will not have to take action outside the Turkish borders, but within Turkey. Now, here's another question. Is Rasmussen's support related to the concept of new challenges that have been highlighted in the new century after the Lisbon meeting, and not within the scope of the 5th Amendment? If so, then it may be that NATO is talking about its plans to take action in Syria, in response to a new challenge, not to support Turkey, but to a new challenge, which brings something else to mind: Do our NATO allies seem to be reluctant at the moment, and are they actually willing? Are they waiting for a period of time, such as the election of the President of the United States, and then waiting for a movement of Turkey to get there, or are Turkey being led to such a move? If that's the case, then the situation is very grave. In that case, we would be using and asserting ourselves to NATO's own plans, making it look like we're being supported or reinforced, without reinforcements to us, as well as opening the door for NATO. I don't know if it's a conscious choice or an unconscious choice, but if such a choice exists, then the Supreme Court is a choice, and if such a choice is made unconscious, it's even worse than being done with consciousness. We wanted to know about these things, but we didn't get them last time. For him, our proposal included a reason why politics is incompatible with national interests and is hidden from the public by the legislature. It's not right to hide. We'd be happy to get some information at a closed meeting on these issues -- but in a real closed meeting. And as I just said, Turkey is going to a bad spot in foreign policy, and this foreign policy needs to be rethinked. You have to sit down and change this foreign policy. How do you change it? Let me be clear, we need to make a 180-degree turn. I know that turning 180 degrees from a policy that's been implemented will cause a great deal of political distress for the government, of course, but there is an example, and there is a way, and that's the way that we set up with this geneor motion. It's the exchange of the Foreign Minister, who we respect for himself, who, personally, has nothing to do with himself, who, on the contrary, is contrary, but is very unsuccessful in foreign policies. Turkey has one like this. You love the examples of the 1920s, the 30s, the 40s, the specimens that were given, and I see that our friends, from time to time, take samples from there and try to touch us. You can find another sample there. In June 1944, Turkey changed its policy of neutrality by changing the very brilliant foreign minister at the time, Numan Menemencioglu, and led it to the San Francisco Conference, and to its founding member of the United Nations. Dear friends, take this motion for a full-blown question seriously. Look, think of yourself as going to the Bosphorus Bridge of Istanbul. As you approach that bridge, you see a sign on your right side: the last exit before the bridge. We are at the last exit before the bridge, friends. If you go to that exit, you will continue to live in the same peace that our country had since the Mudanya Agreement, where it celebrated its 90th anniversary yesterday, and if you do not deviate, you will cross the bridge, where you, us, and all of us, will not know what will happen to us. He wants your attention, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0005par0229	Thank you. Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0006par0232	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group concerning the Republican People's Party's Foreign Minister, Mr. Davutoglu's proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and as I begin speaking, I salute the Grand Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you have high knowledge, there are those who desire Turkey's involvement inside and outside. We know that some dark activities aimed at destroying and destroying Turkey's internal order have been staged, taking advantage of the difficulties we face in foreign politics. The National Movement Party has always kept away from politics and has never turned its back on its national sense of responsibility. And for that reason, our party has never been afraid to face the facts. The National Movement Party has done the most painful analysis of the government's policy so far and has not compromised a single shred of its stance. When it comes to national interests, he's not playing party, he's thinking of our country first. Our party has never complained about the government of the Republic of Turkey -- although it does not approve. Dear lawmakers, as everyone today has testified, the High Assembly cannot function in harmony, while state institutions are not properly operated. In such a depressed environment, our party cannot allow or consent to those who seek chaos. In the conflict with Syria, it is vital that our security agencies in particular feel the presence of a serious and powerful political will behind them. In this regard, our party is taking a stand against the motion for the given geneorization. But look, this part is important. I'm sure Mr. Davutoglu will listen very carefully to what we have to say. Things aren't going so well. Due to the AKP foreign policy developed at Mr. Davutoglu's initiative, Turkey has now been transformed into a country where the president of the United States warned with a baseball bat, where Israel did not take any notice of Israel, where Russia and Iran threatened to strike openly at regular intervals, where Iraq made a note, which Syria had crashed its plane and violated its sovereignty, while the EU countries were increasingly cold and distant. You've certainly noticed that the countries and communities I count are either our neighbors or our strategic partners in the traditional plan are the states we know as our allies. Everyone knows that Mr. Davutoglu's dream of having zero problems with the neighbors, how his nostalgic and imperial ambitions have hit the cold reefs of the outside world, and what phases have damaged our national interests. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the history of the republic, Mr. Kuruturk has just made a reference to the history of the Republic -- giving you an example of the fashion in this period of time -- I'm going to ask you something very brief. Mr. Davutoglu is the second long-term figure in the history of the republic. Other than Tevfik Rüş Aras, who served for thirteen and a half years without interruption between 1925 and 1938, no individual has had as long and uninterrupted as Mr. Davutoglu in determining and implementing Turkish foreign policy. Now, at this point, the Tafiq Rüş Aras process, which constitutes 13 and a half years of Turkish foreign policy in the Ataturk era, will be seen as not being the invention of Mr. Davutoglu's zero problem policy with the neighbours, but being successfully implemented at that time. As a matter of fact, considering our relations with our neighbors at that time, despite a newly established republic and all the financial impossibilities, Greece and Lausanne's leftover exchange and patriarchal issues have been resolved and diplomatic relations have been established. In 1926-1930, friendship, good neighbourly agreements were signed. Bulgaria was granted a friendship agreement in 1925. In 1928, a friendship agreement was signed with our neighbor, Italy, over the Twelve Islands in the Aegean. Associations of friendship and neutrality with the Soviet Union, signed in 1925-1929, have been established, and economic, commercial relations have been developed. In 1926, the problem with Mosul was resolved with our neighbor, England and Iraq. In 1926 they signed agreements on friendship and good neighbourly relations with the mandator France and Syria. In 1936, the Montrö Treaty of the Bosphorus was restored to rule over our country's Istanbul and Çanakkale Straits. The diplomatic initiatives that speeded Hatay to join his homeland in 1936 have resulted, the Turkish-French treaty in 1938 and then independence, starboard state Hatay, and a year later the state has decided to join Turkey. In 1934, Turkey founded Greece, Yugoslavia, Romania and the Balkan Pact. While the AKP government and its Foreign Minister bow to states that have spent billions of dollars to become a temporary member of the United Nations Security Council for two years, I would like to remind them that Turkey was invited to join the United Nations at that time by the honorable foreign policy under the leadership of the Great Leader Ataturk. In the first quarter of the 21st century, a second figure in the history of the republic had long served in Turkish foreign policy. In the first six-and-a-half years, Mr. Davutoglu was a foreign policy producer and router, and in addition to the last three and a half years, he was a foreign policy decision maker. Let us now count our relations with our neighbors at this time: Greece, despite its economic crisis at the same time, has quietly seized our three men in the Aegean, raised their own flag, and even visited the Greek President as a symbol of conquest. According to the Lausanne Agreement, the legal status of all three islands is controversial, but our Foreign Office states that independent sources and scientists do not. The Greek side claims that the islands are theirs and is still occupied. On the one hand, we can't give away even a square inch of the land. On the other hand, Turkey and Turkey are an AKP foreign policy, which gives land to a stranger in a silver platter. If this isn't a slip-up, then what is it? Russia has provided a condition for carrying Russian goods as it returns to trucks carrying Turkish goods. Uzbekistan is tendering Turkish goods. Our neighbor Iran, whose border we have maintained since Kasri Smurf, has begun to apply visas in 1639, and our relationship is getting more and more tense every day, the commander of the Air Force insists he will return to hit Turkey. Due to the closure of the Syrian border, the costs of export navl have increased by 3 ▪. Exports to Arab countries are almost at a standstill. With the plane crisis two days ago, we won't get enough natural gas this winter, or what we're doing will come back to us as a gas increase. In Turkey, refugees from Syria have found 105k as of today. The U.N. High Commissioner predicts that by the end of the year, this figure could go up to 300,000. These people alone are burdened by over $1 billion per year. Now, Mr. Davutoglu, do you ever think about what these wrong policies cost to Turkish people and the state of the Republic of Turkey? We know that no one outside the Turkish nation has financed this adventurous policy. Did you ever consider, as the Prime Minister calls it, the consequences of the unnecessary burden you've put on the strange guru's back? There may be people who think that giving $5 billion to the IMF is an important job. There is no doubt those who are satisfied with the satisfaction of the symbolicity of this move. He's putting aside the cost of logistical support for the Free Syrian Army, not to mention. The government says it's in the name of humanity, thank you. If this is a matter of humanity as the government claims, then where is the international community, where is the United Nations, where is NATO, where is the European Union, where is the United States, Saudi Arabia, even Qatar? I'm asking, are my people less people than Syrian refugees? Do ordinary Turkish families have to work hard, sweat hard, often work hard to melt what they earn with additional taxes and herpes? Mr. Davutoglu, the real war is out on the street every day. Every day, our human struggles to survive, to bring bread to his family. Therefore, we certainly don't need these burdens. Can you face this crochet we've painted? Dear lawmakers, our policy of not being stuck in the swamp of the Middle East, which we have always avoided during our republic's history has been cut out, and we are so stuck in that swamp that it will have to be, as the people call it, ditched in order to get out before we get in trouble. The Kurdish Government in northern Iraq is on its way to statehood, and we're just looking at it. What happened to the new political presence and formations that could have appeared there would have been a period of war? Today, Turkey is proud of you by inviting this formation, let alone counting the cause of war, to your party's general congress in a circle with its leaders. You're raising the terms. I thought we were defending Iraq's territorial integrity. Our relations with the Central Iraqi Government are getting worse. Mr. Davutoglu's visits to Kerkuk and Erbil were ignored by the Iraqi Central Administration. What a sad picture it is that today the Central Iraqi government is not Turkey, but Central Iraq, who is fighting against Iraqi territorial integrity and sovereignty by the Regional Kurdish Administration in northern Iraq. Political power provides a dish for a new state to be formed in the region, and in the process, it works as if in a heartbeat to become this state. Since the National Movement Party's organisation, the esteemed lawmakers have been in line with the human and national values of the Turkish nation for 43 years, and their national reflexes, which have been in public opinion, have always been a guide to their political preferences. As you can imagine, this vision is also relevant to foreign policy, and it is in our opinion. We've always acted on the spirit, conditions, and expectations of time, and we believe that we have never been involved in any attempt to betray our government and our nation, which contradicts the conscience of our people. The long-term life of democracy rests only in the hands of the people in the country where it spreads and feeds only on their struggles. Therefore, it is imperative that the two points in the area of democracy should be given maximum attention. First, you are obliged to defend and preserve your own national sovereignty. Second, you must treat the national sovereignty of the state in which you are dealing with it and thus the integrity of the land. Foreign policy is one in general in developed states, alleged. Foreign policy is a state policy, and it can never be abandoned to a party's own political programme. Because remember, in today's world, foreign policy moves have a serious impact on internal order. For the past two years, it's obvious that there's been an increasing disease of terror. Dear Foreign Minister, I believe that at first you only saw Syria as Syria, and you were mistaken. But have no doubt, Syria is the box of Pandora, in the Middle East. What comes out of Syria, what comes out of Syria, you see Russia out of Syria, Iran out of Lebanon, Lebanon out of China, the People's Republic out of China, different religious sensibilities, and then you, as Turkey, suddenly see you alone, alone, alone in the midst of chaos. Dear MPs, we have urged Mr. Davutoglu many times. Don't do it, you're getting too involved, you're getting too involved, you're going to turn the terror on, you're going to wake up some of the instigating cells inside of us, don't let our foreign policy be guided. Now, in this frame, I'd like to ask Mr. Davutoglu: is it in your jurisdiction to appoint a state president in a neighbouring country? What in God's name were you thinking when the regime was fighting with its own people, when you proposed Faruk al-Shara, the foreign minister of Baba Assad, who was considered to be a father of the Baas regime, the minister of Hafiz al-Assad? What do you hope to do here when you accuse a party in this Parliament of being called Baasci, to put another Baas founder in charge of Syria? Dear lawmakers, we write down every detail and follow it. You can't fool anyone by inviting him to your convention and honoring him with the calm of the order of Turkish F-16 You're underestimating this nation's ability to test and comprehend. We don't understand how you could make the head of a so-called structure in the 19th century that was racist, micronationalizing, promoting minority racism in our country. In Turkey, Turkey is no longer Turkish in our own homeland, as a result of the ten-year vision of the AKP's power and the utopian foreign policy of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In the same way, our people's religious beliefs, philosophy, religious commitments were questioned, publicly questioned. In the first period of power, the issue of the European Union, as remembered, was considered a priority. But it's not read anymore. In every program he attends, there's a minister in the cabinet who has no use but to say, "Look, son, there's a certain arrogance of origin." Mr. Davutoglu isn't from there at all. If you call it our traditional national issue, Cyprus, which has already been put on the shelf, it is deeply contrary to the strategic interests of our state that AKP has completely ignored Central Asia's geography, which will witness the global struggle for power in the coming years, the failure and even the fact that TİKA is in this region. The Turkish world feels abandoned by Turkey today. The situation is the same for our Turkmen brothers in Iraq and Syria. Where we've come from, where we've come from. Yes, I salute the High Council by binding my words here, thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0007par0270	Thank you. Nazmi Gür, Van MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Group.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0008par0272	Dear President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the BDP Group on behalf of the President of the Republican People's Party about Syria in particular, and of which Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, the Foreign Minister, in general due to the wrong policies. I salute you all. Before we begin my remarks, we want to know whether or not military materials were actually carried on that civilian plane, on the plane to Ankara, in which the government officials and Mr. Davutoglu expressed the contents of the international illegal burden, in the press, in public, and in Turkey, as MPs, are actually on that civilian plane, in which military equipment was carried; this is our most natural right. Dear lawmakers, I think it would be better, more useful, to focus on how Turkey and Middle Eastern geography can survive this instability, rather than trying to sort out how sensitive our country's process is and how dangerous policies are. The AKP will continue to read its own opinion no matter how much we criticize it for trusting in its numerical superiority here, no matter how much we expose its mistakes. My view, unfortunately, is also consistent with our experience in previous geneorization interviews. So, in terms of notes that should be reduced to history, I will continue to talk with the solution-oriented approach that I just mentioned. You know, in order to solve a problem, you have to identify it first, make some identifications. And in this context, I would like to first share some of my findings with you, with the High Council. First, the instability in the Middle East has already exceeded a regional problem. Global actors have chosen their side, the fronts are clear now, and they belong to the oppressed peoples of the Middle East. Some say that a regional, some say, a war between sects makes him feel more threatened than ever. The Middle East is shaped by the eyes of foreign actors and their long and molten interests. As reported in Libya, or Egypt, instability did not result; it did not bring democracy to the peoples of the Middle East, to the peoples of these countries. Now we can see around the world how the rebel movement, called the Arab Spring, began to carry the issue of legitimacy due to external interference and how it began to be debated. In particular, the attack against the embassy of the United States and its ambassador in Libya is the most painful example of this. Dear MPs, thousands of people are brutally murdered in Syria, and this tragedy continues to escalate. Syria has been dragged into a spiral of civil violence and civil war. In such a situation, no one can speak of the Arab spring as they speak of Syria. Such violence does not bring peace, stability to any Middle Eastern country, including Turkey. Syria and the Middle East are now in a spiral of violence and war. Turkey, as a result of its troubled foreign policies, is drifting deeper and faster into this spiral. So, what has Syria become of us? How did all this happen in Syria? The country's Alevis, Armenians, Assyrians, Sunnis, Kurds and Dürzies and many more minorities have now virtually lost the basis for co-existence. In this case, it is our duty, of course, to ask how to defend Syrian territorial integrity, and it is the duty of Mr. Davutoglu, who conducts foreign policy. In their country, mercenaries from Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and other foreign countries fight against the Esed regime and its supporters, cutting heads and committing unthinkable crimes against humanity. We're not saying this, of course, but the United Nations Committee for Human Rights and other international human rights organizations are saying this, making it very clear in their reports. Every day, we are all witnesses of this violence, the mutual violence in Syria. It, of course, hurts us. Information tools, such as social media, no longer leave these violent scenes to be forgotten in the deep seas of history. The memory of mankind, the conscience of mankind, is clear and against what is happening. Thus, it is already clear that the persecution of mankind in Syria and the destruction of the land will not be the sole responsibility of the Esed regime. Dear friends, we must consider the facts of Syria as one, political actors and actions as one, or we will be lacking. In this context, no one can describe or describe the Syrian National Council and its independent Syrian Army as the neferress of the "democracy" or "freedom fighters" And they bear the burden of these severe human rights violations. We know that there are Syrians fighting against the Esed regime for basic rights and more freedoms, the Syrian peoples. We salute their struggle for democracy and freedom from here. See, the Alevis, the Kurds, the Christians, the Dürzis and even the socialist and social democrat Sunni are cut loose by Arabs, the Syrian National Council and the Free Syrian Army, because they were excluded from this process, and neither the West nor Turkey took them into account. This segregated foreign policy is clearly a candidate to transform these parts into the new victims and victims of the new Syria (Syria) in post-Esed Syria; it does not serve the territorial integrity of Syria (Syria) and an equal, free, democratic Syrian demand of the peoples. Can anyone call this opposition to the Syrian National Council, which, along with the Alevis, Kurds, Dürzis, Assyria and Armenians, ignores and excludes other minorities and supports Turkey? How can the Syrian National Council be supported, representing fundamentalist policies that only take into account the interests of Sunni Arabs and are incompatible with the sociological structure of Syria? But Turkey clearly supports Egypt, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Why? Because of religious sensibilities? Will Turkey's foreign policy support its foreign policy, as opposed to the AKP's sensitivities, as opposed to the Sunni sect, by increasingly shaping Middle Eastern policies? It is clear that the AKP government is trying to put its foreign policy on a centrist and singular axis, as in domestic policy. It is a tragedy that the opposition National Council of Syria is considered to be the power in the window of the new Syria, which is unknown whether or not the Sunni Arabs are the only ones representing it. The AKP government is in charge of this mistake in the first place. This is the discrimination and foreign policy of the AKP. Dear lawmakers, in any case, a new status will take place south of Turkey's border; the democratic Syrian neighbour of Kurds, Alevis and other peoples will remain, if we are defending and considering the territorial integrity of Syria. The AKP wants Syria without Kurds and without Alevi? There is no room for Kurds or non-Muslims or non-Muslims in AKP government's dream Middle East. I want to make it clear here that the AKP government can neither read the Middle East historically nor sociologically nor ideologically. Now we all know that Kurds, one of the oldest people in Middle Eastern geography, who did not evaluate Kurds in a holistic state in the Middle East, made them into political actors in Iran, Iraq, Syria, and especially Turkey. A foreign policy that ignores the existence of 40 million Kurdish people in the Middle East is a false foreign policy. Therefore, we would like to point out now that no project for stability and peace that the Kurds have not considered will survive, including the United States' Great Middle East Project. In the same way, Alevi-Shii reality is considered to be one of the most important social and political peoples in the Middle East. No foreign policy and peace project will succeed without considering it. A new democratic Syria cannot be established without the plurality of Syria. This also applies to Turkey. Specifically, Turkey has the same fault lines as Syria carries social fault lines. There's a Russian proverb. When our Foreign Minister tried to teach a country a lesson in democracy, how many statesmen, how many diplomats did he hear it from? For example, in the matter of Chechnya or the Uygur Turks, he must have heard it from both Russia and China. Mr. Secretary and we both know what that means. You look at your own house first, you look inside yourself. That means. Dear friends, because of these wrong policies, neither Chechnya nor Uygur Turks are involved in AKP's foreign policy or AKP's policies. Unfortunately, since the Cyprus issue, Turkey's foreign policy has developed a habit of getting involved in issues based on familyhood or religion. We have no chance of success in foreign policy developing on these foundations. Dear friends, it is necessary to make it clear from here that the Kurds in Turkey view the achievements of the Kurds in Syria as their own gains, the free democratic gains of the Syrian people. In contrast, if the AKP sees the government as some kind of threat or loss, we want to use it as a concrete example to highlight the error of Turkey's foreign policy. Turkey's foreign policy cannot succeed just by looking out for the foreign policy of Sunni Arabs, which cannot be edited. Neither the Kurds nor the Shiites are afraid of Turkey's threatening stance, which has a glass house, which they clearly say. As a matter of fact, we all know that the Iranian Chief of Staff's threat is going to come to Turkey after Syria. Dear friends, however, the AKP is trying to control and govern the Syrian crisis using the media as its agitation and propaganda centre; it is interesting that Turkey does not know about the public perception of the Syrian crisis, but now, in the world, the Arab Spring has returned to winter. We all know that the idea is prevailing, but still in Turkey, the account is being counted that Syria will be democratised by the Free Syrian Army. In fact, that's the expression, but the AKP government is counting on this saying that the regime in Syria is similar to its worldview. A foreign policy based solely on the Separatists and the Muslim Brothers will of course fail the Syrian policy. Now we see that the account in the house doesn't fit in the market, so it's taking a short cut to get NATO to take office, but we see that even NATO doesn't like the AKP's arguments. And when NATO doesn't take kindly to the intervention, it also turns out to be a deterrent, a rescuer -- a war thesis -- to function. On the other hand, we are well aware of the position of China and Russia on the UN Security Council. We all know that Russia and China have taken positions in the UN Security Council against the use of international force directly against Syria. Dear lawmakers, it seems the U.S. government will continue to pursue passive foreign policy until the election. No one can predict what that attitude will be after the elections. For reasons mentioned earlier, the European Union is reluctant to accept the Free Syrian Army and the political movement they represent. Certainly, it would be naive to expect the European Union, which received the Nobel Peace Prize this year, to take an active stance on Syria and violate the spirit of the Nobel Peace Prize. Only Esed should go. It is called. The less and less spoken, the more it's not an imposition, the more it's a wish. As a matter of fact, the fact that our Foreign Minister has chosen a leader for the post-Esed regime and has appointed a leader means that policy is bankrupt. At first, the strong winds against Syria are getting weaker and weaker. Now, the Western world is trying to throw Turkey into the fire, avoiding its movers. Turkey seems to have taken on this business with governments such as Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Dear friends, there are plans to overthrow the Esed regime in refugee camps, where the command level is shaped. Clearly, the AKP government is playing with fire. Such interventions are a violation of the United Nations' agreements on the protection of refugees in the first place and all other international law. Besides, we can't take responsibility for the loss of brother blood. It is not only against Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu, but rather to condemn the government's wrong foreign policy that has come to our attention due to false policies in the Syrian crisis. Of course, Mr. Erdogan and his government are responsible for the chaotic situation Turkey and the Middle East have now fallen into. The road to which Turkey was dragged is not the road under the name of the Ottoman dream. Turkey will increasingly sink into an unresolved solution. Right now, we've got a zero-problem policy that's out of zero. Naturally, democracy must account for these wrong policies. It would be best for both the Middle East peoples and Mr. Davutoglu to give up false policies in the face of these facts, but for this foreign policy carried out for Turkey, the sea is finished, the strategic depth is now on land. The truth is completely exposed. Once again, now, the king is naked. Dear friends, before I end my words here, I invite the AKP government from the stand to look through a wider window, especially the Middle East world, to evaluate the developments in the world. We wish for him to evaluate the Middle East with a wider vision, with more realistic approaches. As opposition, of course, we will express our views, our criticisms. Whether to comply or not is the AKP's duty, in AKP's hands. The AKP should not ignore its historical mission, not throw away the criticism of the opposition. Dear friends, I invite you to address the Middle East with a broader vision, and in this context, to review your foreign policy once again to establish peace and brotherhood in the Middle East, in accordance with the demand of equality and freedom of the peoples who are part of the historical heritage. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0009par0299	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Hurşit Sun, Al-Huseli MP.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0302	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the generality of Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmet Davutoglu under Articles 98 and 99 of the Constitution and Article 106 of the Interior Charter. And I salute the High Council. I know, it's Friday, Parliament TV's off. Therefore, our people will not be able to follow us directly and directly.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0011par0304	They're watching.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0305	He won't be able to watch the transplant. And you brought the gene at such an hour on a Friday night, but I'll tell you something else: you brought the thesis in a closed session, and our citizens couldn't see what was being said inside. So this Syrian policy has become a mystery, the more reflected in the public, the more learned it becomes. So there are some fundamental truths in Syria that we must hide from the people. Dear friends, on August 25th, I was a speaker on a panel. I went to Hatay, and the people of Hatay told me: "There's a great deal of tension here. We asked the citizens in Hatay, and we said, "What is your problem?" They said, "There are some soldiers in uniform who walk under the name of the asylum seeker, and they come in and out of the camps. What do you do? You're a congressman, and we said, "Let's go, let's look at these refugee camps. We called the governor, we called the authorities, we searched the office of the Republican People's Party headquarters, we searched the apartment on the emergency and disaster, we asked for permission from Ankara with official writing, we asked for permission, we asked for permission from Yayladağı and Apadun. On my way, I preferred Apadyl. We'll go with the delegation to Apalight, but we'll be delighted before, go, meet the children, meet the women, see the camps, see the situation. The AFAD President suddenly said, "You can't go on the road. Cis! It's a forbidden place, never go in there... I said, "How can it be?" I'm a congressman, I'm with the lawmakers. You let us, we applied in official writing. No, you'll never get in. They will turn you from the gate of Apaedun. They said. We went to April, but on our way back from the door, we had a press conference, and we made it public that we couldn't get in. Now, dear friends, you're a congressman, you can't get into the territory of the Republic of Turkey. It's not a foreign place, it's Turkey's. Mr. Hursit, the Sun -- me -- and Mr. Süleyman Çelebi -- are sitting here -- were not allowed in. Why aren't we offended? I mean, that's what the Speaker has to worry about now, isn't it? Mr. Cemil Cicek would have to ask why my two deputies weren't taken in. I understand that if you go on like this, you'll end up like Davutoglu. Dear friends, this camp was later opened to the Parliament Human Rights Commission. The Republican People's Party members did not participate as the Parliament's Human Rights Commission left. We said, "You're going to clean it up, and then you're going to go and see that camp, and you're going to make a clean report." And that's what happened. The Parliament's Human Rights Commission has left, and as I attended the day before, it issued a report saying, "It's clean." I went to that Commission on the day of the announcement, the report. Mr. Ayhan Sefer Süpün was there, and the explanation was there, but I was amazed by what I heard. I thought Riyad al-Assad, Commander of the Free Syrian Army, was gone in that camp. No, he was there and they met. Asked by Ayhan Sefer Üstün, MP Atila Kaya of İstanbul has not asked. He said, "Are you the Commander of the Free Syrian Army?" The interpreter said no with his eyebrows. Why do your eyebrows look like that? I've got a tick, they said. Let's change you. Let's change this translator. The translator's changed. When I was amazed, I said, "Was he there?" The Malik El Kurdi, whom you spoke of so often, was also there. This is a disgrace! It's a disgrace! Now, I insist that if that camp was any different than any other camp, you wouldn't be able to explain why you didn't let us in, would you? Now, again, why were we not taken into that camp, Mr. Süleyman Çelebi and I, and the delegation with him, not taken, and received the Commission for Human Rights? I need to explain this. What was the difference? Was there something different about us? Now the Minister and the officials say, "Well, dear, we put official officers in this camp who escaped the official army of Syria." They left, and we put them there. Ya, the world knows that the main backbone of the Free Syrian Army is already made up of those who fled the army of Assad. Of course, there are other Al Qaeda elements and other elements involved, of course, but that's the main backbone. Who's cheating on who? This camp is two kilometers to the border, folks, five miles to customs. Outside of this camp, Abu Hussein Niami, who you saw his picture, told the televisions that he was going to chop me and Süleyman Çelebi. If I were Cemil Cicek, I'd ask him which Syrian has been cutting my MPs to pieces! If I were the Secretary of State, if I were the Home Secretary, I'd ask.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0012par0313	His job was a butcher?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0314	If something like this had happened to one of 550 MPs in this parliament, all Republican People's Party officials would have asked for it.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0013par0316	What an asshole!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0317	Now, I understand there's been some confusion. It seems that the word "Baastist" is so settled that we Republican People's Party called Baas, go to the Syrian opponents whom they had given weapons to, and chop them up. They would cut us to pieces because they said so. I'm sorry. Dear lawmakers have written for months the world has written about what happened to Abaydın. Now, Mr. Secretary is an academic. There are diplomats sitting here, they all have foreign languages. I will not set an example from Turkey. See, February 24, 2012, Germany's prestigious newspaper Der Spiegel Apadüd. February 28, 2012, The National writes that Riyad El Assad is in Apadın. On May 23, 2012, The Independent spoke again of Apayun. June 21, 2012, U.S.A.'s respected newspaper, New York Times, reports that Turkish bodies and CIA agents have delivered anti-tanks to the border. On June 22, 2012, John Densky, reporter for The Guardian, says: "I am a witness that at the beginning of the month 50 boxes of rifles were delivered from Reyhan at the beginning of the month. The world is writing them to the Muslim brothers." On July 2, 2012, The New York Times says it is again the command center of Apayun. The official website of the Free Syrian Army says Hatay as the centre.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0014par0325	For God's sake! That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0326	A Komsomolska Pravda reporter named Daria Aslamova says I am a member of the Free Syrian Army under the code name Fatma. Look at you. On August 15, 2012, Le Monde spoke again of Apadun. Is it possible that the world knows about this Apocalypse, that Turkey doesn't know about it? Dear friends, let me ask you something sincerely: did you know what Abayun was before the explosion? Could the Turkish press write about what Apadüd., in the order we call advanced democracy, in which custody was lifted? Have the authorities come to Parliament and briefed you on Apedun? No. No further information has been given. Now, Mr. Secretary may not know what Apedun is, may not really know, may not know. Then let him be heedless, and let him do (it). No, if Mr. Secretary knows what's going on in Apedun, and he doesn't explain it to you, then we're dealing with another mistake.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0015par0331	They know.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0332	Either way, as Mr. Korutrk said earlier, there's an opportunity to exit the bridge, you have to take it. Dear friends, yesterday I handed out disks to you and 550 MPs. On that disk is a 20-minute interview with Riyad El Assad. Part of his interview continues in Istanbul, where he went to meet with the authorities. Not only that image, there are other images. Look, it's a picture of Riyad El Assad Apadüd, followed by the Turkish flag and the Iraqi flag, inside that camp.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0016par0334	Show it to the minister, Mr. Sun, show it to the Minister.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0335	Look, he's on the phone -- he's in that movie -- he's co-ordinated a conflict in Aleppo.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0017par0336	Show it to the Minister, the Minister.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0016par0337	His eyes are blind, blind.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0338	Riyadh, El Assad, is behind him under the protection of Turkish police in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0018par0339	Riyadh Assad or Esed?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0340	Friends, let me be very clear, Apocalypse is a dark place, but unfortunately it has been a disgrace to our foreign policy. The world wrote Apadün: "It is the command center of the free Syrian Army. " What did you do when it came to light? Sir, there's a decree dated 1995 that officers who leave another country can live in our country. You said. Is it true? Is that valid? Yeah, that's dirty, that's bullshit. Because that 1995 regulation has nothing to do with today's conditions. Turkey's refugee legislation -- you know -- is a troubled legislation, we don't accept from the east. In order for us to accept the soldier, only the two countries we stand outside of us need to be in conflict. When you said that, you said, "Sir, in the conflict between Syria and Israel, we accept Syrian people for him, Syrian soldiers." It's worse than that. Now, the 92nd article of the Constitution is open. Article 92 of the Constitution states: You must ask permission from this great assembly to bring another country's troops into our country. Did you get it? No, you didn't. So, how did you accept it? If you agree, this is what the president of the Republican People's Party called the High Court. Because you brought in foreign soldiers without permission, and brought them into the Camp Apaedun in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0019par0342	Did they get it for the sphere? They didn't buy it for the sphere.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0010par0343	Now, neither that bogus Human Rights Commission report nor your bogus regulations will save you from this constitutional crime. Now, the esteemed MPs, the government says: "We have warned Assad a lot, take steps towards democracy." What did you do to him? You have armed the opponents, and you have allowed the shipment of those weapons along with Qatar, who support Al-Qaeda, and Saudi Arabia, who support the Selaphs. Yeah, what do you think? Is this because democracy is coming? So Qatar and Saudi Arabia are arming the Free Syrian Army in the event that one of these days, we'll have democracy? Is there a rational side to this? Dear friends, for the first time in the history of the republic, a government designes a neighbour's internal work or relationship with him, not for the national security of another country, but for the national interest. Look, you know what Joe Biden said in an open session the other day? Syria and Turkey... we're like hands with a glove. El is probably the United States of America, and the glove is Turkey. Gloves get dirty, hands stay clean, you got that? For the first time in the history of the Republic, a government is interfering with the internal affairs of another country, for the first time in the history of the republic, a government is being criticised in the media of other countries for the first time in its history. The clear 304th and 306th articles of the Turkish Penal Code: ▪ Instigating another state to fight or collecting arms against the foreign state, recruiting troops... Dear lawmakers, when we say these things, they say to us, "Are you a Baasian?" Well, now, that's obviously dissociative; there's no way you can really relate to that. The Baas regime -- in the past, Kortuk also said -- is Arab nationalism, but there's something beyond that -- about Baas nationalism, about Baas. For example, universities are under pressure there, the media is on the sidelines, no one can say anything against them, if there are lawmakers against them, they're locked up, they're not let out. So there's a great deal of persecution and oppression there. So it seems to me that Syria has been a great Silivri for a long time. Now, I think the biggest Baasian has turned out to be Davutoglu. (HPP) Because no one in Turkey has said that someone else from the Baas regime should come again and become president. But Mr. Davutoglu said that. Although there is a difference between him and Baas, who has been a Baasian, who has been a Baasian since his father Assad, and who has done a great injustice, but there is a difference. Let him come, and tell him himself, and tell him on this stand, what is the difference between Assad and Faruk al Sharia? Turkish foreign policy is based on secular basis. (Applause from CHP rows) The secularism is not only that religion or religion do not interfere with the rule of a country's state, but also that it does not interfere with foreign policy. A foreign minister never, ever talks to a sect within another country. Well, I've heard a lot about it. Alevis and Sunnis, we are brothers, we are branches of the same tree. Why would we have them hit each other in Syria? Dear friends, as Republican People's Party on August 14th, we called you to a meeting and you turned it down. We're trying to fulfill a responsibility to our nation, a responsibility to the people. We're trying to steer you in the right direction. We're trying to save the government from a great swamp. Some countries may say that this is a great opportunity for you in the future. Don't be fooled. If this goes on, Syria will eventually break up like Iraq and become a major disadvantage for Turkey, an element of instability. We need to get out of here now. Dear friends, Apedun is the boil of Syrian policy, a sign of error. What happened in the end? A bomb has been dropped on our innocent and civil citizens. Dear lawmakers, what did the government do about it? He wanted to bring NATO into action, didn't he? Why did he put NATO into action? I need you. Gee, we're a big country. Remember when we were the leading country, we didn't need NATO in the Middle East? With two bullets, we'll go and ask for NATO. In the end, Syria... Well, we went to NATO. What did we say? We didn't call for Article 5 of the agreement, we called for Article 4 of the agreement, there was an attack. We couldn't say, there was a threat. What did they write in the report, the declaration? They wrote danger. We couldn't even do it in NATO. Now, I'll ask Mr. Davutoglu. Let him come, let him say it here, please. Let him explain that our relations with Iraq have improved even more after the coming and clapping of Hashimi. After we put the radar in Malatiah, let him tell us that our relationship with Iran has gained even more confidence. Let him come and tell us all about it, Mr. Davutoglu. In an environment where your mind can meet your spirit, you say that you want to do thoughts and accounting continuously. According to you, the 19th century ideology of the nation is disintegrating organic structures from history and disseminating all of us with artificial contrasts. Put that idea in accounting again. Because you can't sit in that chair, you can't represent this nation abroad, if you put it on the brink of war when you think that I'm going to raise our country's problems to zero levels with its neighbors. If this House doesn't do its job, do it with honor. Dear lawmakers, I am a professor of economics. In 1994 and 1995, when a professor of economics was in charge of the economy, I was deeply sorry to hear that Turkey had caused a financial crisis because I am a professor. Now there's a professor at the helm of foreign policy, a professor of international relations. Now he has led Turkey to a foreign policy, a diplomatic risk, a cliff, the same sadness and shame. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the innocents who died in Idlip, in Aleppo, in Damascus, in Humus, at the end of the conflict, and the innocent offspring who were killed by the planes of Assad, and those who said, "I am jihading," will not remember us with their blessings if we do not desist. I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0362	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0021par0363	Mr. President, Mr. Sun is speaking...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0364	Your words are not understood, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0021par0365	Sir, I want word on Article 69. Mr. Sun's speech has something to do with the fact that my name is mentioned, too, that we've been cut to shreds...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0367	Mr. Sun, huh?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0021par0368	Yeah. That's what he said, sir. I want word on that, too.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0369	What did Mr. Sun say about you?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0021par0370	He said, "We went there as two MPs, along with Chelebi. We're going to chop you up. We're going to chop you up. He made a statement saying that we should be butchered, that the citizens there...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0371	It's not bullying, it's Mr. Sun. It's against you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0021par0372	I have a request to speak for him, too.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0373	It's out of the question, Mr. Çelebi. It's not bullying, it's the expression of Mr. Sun. It's not bullying against you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0021par0374	No, it's teasing, sir. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0020par0375	No, Mr. Çelebi. Please... Thank you. Point taken. Speaking for the AK PARTI Group, Mevlüt Sergeantoglu, Antalya MP. [[Let's hear it for the AK PARTI rows.]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0380	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. About a few months ago, we had the same discussion on this stand again. Again, the Republican People's Party had a motion to ask about a Minister of ours. We've been through all this. Different political parties had different attitudes, criticisms, votes. It's only been a short time, and we've seen that a motion to ask the House again. As a matter of fact, at first I couldn't believe it, I thought it was a joke. As a result, of course, one, according to the Civil Code, is a democratic right, and we respect that, but dear friends, foreign policy requires seriousness. From one side around our country, especially when we look at developments in Syria and dynamics in the entire region, this gene that the Republican People's Party has brought to parliament again at such a delicate time is not consistent with the seriousness of Turkey, nor with the seriousness of this Parliament, nor with the seriousness of Turkish foreign policy. Today, dear friends, we are in this geographical geopolitical position, and our historical connections, within the framework of our mission, and in the light of expectations from us, Turkey must follow a very powerful, very dynamic, proactive, not passive, but a factor foreign policy. (CHP rows) Of course there are conditions. One of them, dear friends, is that there must be political stability in the country first. Fortunately, for ten years there has been political stability in Turkey, with the support of our nation, the AK PARTI Authority, political stability in the country.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0023par0383	I can see it, I can see it!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0384	And that's not enough, you have to have a strong economy, and economic growth over the last decade has become a country that's been admired and coveted by all the countries in the world today. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Other than that, dear friends, of course you have to have a strong democracy, which means there has to be a strong opposition, and, of course, your social structure has to be strong. Dear friends, at a time like this, in order for you to follow strong foreign policy at a time like this, you have to have a strong leadership in this country, and you have to have a strong vision.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0024par0388	Have you read the European Union report?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0389	Thankfully, today, thanks to our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Turkey now has strong leadership. In Turkey, today, we see what dimensions this strong leadership has gone to.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0025par0390	One man's leadership, that's right.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0391	You're right, you might be jealous. All the political leaders from the latest EC PARTY congress, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, were not the only leaders of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0025par0392	For God's sake, who else is here but Schröder?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0393	...they say they're the leaders of the region now, so you might be uncomfortable with that, there's nothing natural about that.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0026par0395	The leader of Al Qaeda, the leader of terrorists; are these the world leaders?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0025par0396	No one but Schroder came, and he came as the CEO of Gazprom.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0397	Now, dear friends, of course...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0025par0398	Barzani's just here. Is Maliki here yet?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0027par0399	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0400	...our government, our government, our Prime Minister's leadership, our friends who live here, and we have a minister who's been actively conducting this foreign policy day and night in the last few years, sleep, sleep, sleep, and sleep on airplanes all over the world. We, of course, are proud of these - our friends.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0028par0401	Let him sleep, sir, as soon as he can!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0029par0402	What did you do in Turkey, in Turkey?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0403	Dear friends, that's not enough. The country can go through such delicate times that unity is needed at the time, so the power and opposition must act together in unity. For example, the issue of terrorism: we need unity, unity in this matter, all of us. We need unity in the fight against terrorism and in solving other issues.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0030par0404	With the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0405	Likewise, with Syria, dear friends, we may all have different views on Syria, but we need unity. I especially thank the National Movement Party for this, on behalf of my group, and on behalf of my king. We may have different opinions, of course, a different political party, our foreign policy views may be different, there may be different practices, and they're coming out here and they're being civilly critical, but they're giving a clear message of unity in both the thesis on Syria and the question on our Minister today, and we thank them very much. So, what is the position of the Republican People's Party, dear friends? When we look at the position of the Republican People's Party, we don't keep trying to stop it; we want to fight terrorism, they're trying to stop it. Today we try to defend our country against Syria, and they try to prevent it.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0031par0407	Who met with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Oslo? You did. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0408	Today, I'm afraid the Republican People's Party is irresponsiblely trying to undermine and weaken this country, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0032par0410	We defend national interests, not imperialist interests.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0411	Especially, as I just said, the world's admiration, its appreciation, its success in every aspect of our country, unfortunately the Republican People's Party, let alone cloud these achievements, they're working day and night to weaken the country. Well, let's take a look at the Republican People's Party's attitude outside, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0033par0413	You live in Europe, you don't live in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0414	Yes, I live in Europe, and I'll give you samples. Well, I'll tell you, dear friends, how the Republican People's Party is out there, always complaining about Turkey, constantly defaming Turkey, and out there, constantly trying day and night to undermine Turkey's reputation.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0033par0416	You're doing it. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0417	I'll give you an example: look at the letters they've written to the European Union, dear friends, as well as their representatives there, as well as the delegations leaving here, trying to smear Turkey in the presence of the European Union, which is obvious in the letters, dear friends. Well, my dear friends, there's a Socialist International case that's been on the agenda lately, and there's a declaration. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to come to this.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0034par0419	Sing Barzani. Who applauded Barzani?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0420	Now, from Socialist International, socialist parties in different countries, social democratic parties, my friends told me that both the Mission that went there, and the Committee, did their best to smear Turkey in the same way.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0035par0421	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0036par0423	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0424	What about their attitude toward the declaration, dear friends? You know, there are two sensitive issues in the declaration, one about Syria and one about the PKK.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0037par0425	We didn't see each other in Oslo, you did.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0426	Now, did the Republican People's Party have a voice, dear friends, that the PKK, the terrorist organization, was made to look like the Palestinian Liberation Organization in Palestine, defending its rights? Were they able to stop it? They couldn't. Well, on the other hand, they're talking today, too; they're always talking about Syria, Syria, Syria. So, what does the paragraph on Syria say in that declaration at the Socialist International? In the words of the EC PARTY, it is a paragraph that is completely incompatible with what our Minister, Prime Minister, is saying. So why didn't you stop it? Why did you keep quiet about it?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0038par0429	How do you know we didn't block it?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0430	Dear friends, what could be the reason for this? I want to share the reasons for this with you, the possibilities, the alternatives. One, the Republican People's Party Committee may want to benefit from the Socialist International. Why? For a long time, the Socialist International said that the People's Party of the Republic is not a true social democrat; it's supposed to be a fake social democrat.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0039par0433	What's it to you, Socialist International?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0434	And the delegations who came to Ankara, the delegations to Ankara and the Council of Europe and other platforms told us that if they went like this, we would throw them away. They officially invited the EC PARTY and the EC PARTY to join them. Well, that's option number one.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0040par0435	That's not true.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0436	What's the second possibility? You know, the president of the Republican People's Party was elected Vice President of the Socialist International, so about one of the 35 vice presidents was elected. The second possibility is that the Republican People's Party has remained silent on these two issues in the declaration to make the Republican People's Party's President there Vice President of Socialist International.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0041par0437	What's it to you, Socialist International? Tell me about Al Qaeda, Al Qaeda!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0438	So, what's the third possibility, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0041par0439	Who gave you those guns, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0440	The third possibility is that the Republican People's Party participates in both the PKK and those paragraphs on terrorism and Syria in that declaration, so it remained silent, dear friends. Therefore, it is also an indicator of the Republican People's Party's bilateral standard policies in Turkey and outside.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0041par0441	You've got the whole area mixed up, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0442	Dear friends, my wish is the last possibility, and that last possibility is that we have very valuable retired ambassadors in the delegation of the Republican People's Party, we have friends who speak languages, and I respect all of them, that delegation either jumped or fell asleep, that's my wish. But let them not deceive us about this: The draft of such declarations is previously distributed to groups, delegations. After that, convey to us your thoughts on this matter. It is said that this declaration will be accepted on its final day. That's what I wish because society tolerates it because it knows in Turkey that the Republican People's Party doesn't work for this nation, it's lazy, it sleeps day and night. That's why they haven't given power to the Republican People's Party in years.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0042par0445	Didn't you just say that they work outside day and night?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0446	Well, dear friends, we've been on the Council of Europe for ten years.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0043par0447	Have you read the European Union Progress Report, Mr. Mevlüt? What does he say to the AKP?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0448	What is the position of the Republican People's Party on the Council of Europe now? Dear friends, to complain about Turkey on every platform; to complain about Turkey in commissions, political parties, in their work with the reporter; to complain about Turkey, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0044par0449	Who brought the lawsuits to the Human Rights Court?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0450	And we have valuable friends, friends who have proposed a amendment against Turkey, unfortunately, and, unfortunately, our most recent proposals on Friday that put Turkey in the same position as Belarus, thanks to the intense work of our friends from the EC PARKI. Now, dear friends, look, I want to go back to a date, four years ago. Mr. Shandir remembers very well, our friends from MHP, Mr. Turkesh remembers very well.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0045par0452	Don't make us witness everything!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0453	You know, in 2008, after the 2007 elections, valuable friends filed a closed-down suit against the AK PARTI, which took 47 per cent of the people's vote, and in the process of closing the case, it was good that there were judges in this country. Of course, there were friends who said and rubbed their hands, and there were people who said that they were concerned about it, as well as the Council of Europe. When this declaration was published, dear friends -- with the signature of 21 lawmakers -- were asked by a rumor at that time by the people of the AKP -- for a serious insult campaign against us because I am the head of the delegation, from the top to the other friends of the Republican People's Party; swearings, even statements that lead to treason, and so on. Likewise, the newspapers who supported them wrote them in their corners, until Ertuğrul Ozkok. Well, dear friends, in four years I'll tell you about another declaration. This declaration also has seven more harsh sentences about the seven MPs who cannot enter parliament, especially one first sentence, which is that we wire the most heavily. It is a declaration that begins with a word that means "we," and a contract that reminds us of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, or of the decisions of the court, which is roughly the same with the declaration in 2008. And dear friends, this declaration was prepared by our Republican People's Party friends. And our dear friends, the first friends to sign this declaration, our dear friends here from the Republican People's Party. There's Mr. Bilgehan in first place, Mr. Baykal in second place, and there's Haluk Koç, the party spokesman, and 30 MPs, from Austria, France, and from different countries, signed by their own groups or members of the anti-Turkey MPs. So, what I want to ask you now is, if you're right about this, there's nothing in it, why did you attack us four years ago? Since you attacked us four years ago, so today, even by signing your own signature, suppose that you were right four years ago -- that's when Tüğrül Türkesh criticized us, and Oktay Vural criticized us, and we even argued on a TV show with Oktay Vural Bey. Now I'm speaking to them -- you criticized us four years ago, and now what do you think the Republican People's Party did?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0046par0456	We'll say yes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0457	We have a friend, so are you going to ask us to stay quiet, or are you going to have the same reaction?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0047par0458	You paid for it.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0459	Dear friends, do you know what this is? In Europe, we have always complained of bilateral standards and hypocritical politics, the double standard. But unfortunately, this is the greatest sign and document that the Republican People's Party is hypocritical and double standardized, dear friends. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, do you know who we used to fight in the Council of Europe and other international organisations for ten years?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0048par0462	Come to Apadun.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0022par0463	With Armenia, dear friends, the Greek people, and against Turkey, such as Greece, France, I can honestly tell you that we can't see any pressure from those countries against Turkey today. Unfortunately, today we're dealing with the Republican People's Party in both the Council of Europe and other countries and other platforms and international organisations; the complaints of Turkey, the defamation of Turkey and the actions of Turkey to humiliate Turkey. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0049par0465	Woe to you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0050par0466	You found this day to cry for four years? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0051par0467	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0468	Dear friends, let's face it, your friends are alone. They collaborated with the Armenians, with the French. You know, in 2010, for the first time in 2009, a Turk was elected a Muslim President in the Council of Europe. The Republican People's Party and the Armenians and the French tried to stop it, dear friends. That's their nationalism. Is this Ataturk nationalism?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0053par0469	You cooperated with the Armenians.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0470	It's in the polls, it's in the ballots. I'm talking to papers, I'm not lying.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0054par0471	Why don't you come to April, Syria?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0472	Dear friends, now I ask you, how is this opposition? What kind of opposition is that? Is there any opposition that tries to justify Israel's murder of nine of our citizens in such delicate times?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0055par0473	Then what did you do to Israel?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0474	Is there any opposition to the Syrian regime that slaughtered more than 30,000 people today? Will you, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0056par0475	You're the one who spends most of the defense industry.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0476	Look, my friends have been telling me all morning, this is the Apadin Housing Center.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0057par0477	You're calling for reasons to your congress.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0478	Dear friends at the Apadun Housing Center... when even a child today goes into Google, zooms in, the precious friends zoom in, what's going on at Camp Apalyd, what's going on...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0057par0479	You've summoned those who have taken care of our sons' killers to your congress.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0480	Of course, when you tell them the truth, they jump up and down. It's natural, dear friends, to be excused. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You can even see what's going on at Camp Apedun today on Google. But I'd like to tell him that 75 percent of the people in Camp Apocalypse are women and children. In fact, education is given to children, women are also given courses. The rest are dear friends, of course there are deserters.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0058par0483	Can you tell me what you did to Israel, Mr. Sergeant?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0484	Where will the people who escaped from the army live? Can a man who flees from the army stay in Syria? Can their relatives stay there?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0058par0485	You gave him a bid after that.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0486	Of course we'll take care of them, of course we'll take care of them.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0059par0487	They said they trained there on their own.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0060par0488	No more American subcontractors!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0489	These people aren't soldiers, they're deserters. What we're doing is also in line with international law, and it's human in a way that CHP doesn't understand. So we have to take care of them, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0061par0491	The blood in Syria is on your face. You're under a plague.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0492	Dear friends, of course our Minister will promise his claims, and time is running out. I told you last time, we don't feed you, we don't feed any of our ministers. I'm sorry, we're being clear, we're speaking to what the public understands, and we're not speaking to a diplomatic term. Don't come with such empty motions. We told you last time: you have a gene question prepared for you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0062par0493	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0494	Now, for God's sake, you've done a little bit of work on this gene, there's some additions to Syria, but when you look down on it, it's because of the laziness of the CHP; they've done the same thing, they've done the same thing, they've done the same thing. Here's your work... we call it "Acemi." You get angry. Here we go, here we go. Dear friends, what can you expect from such opposition?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0062par0496	Gee, you're making fun of the MPs, all these people. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0497	We expect something from such opposition. Such opposition is good for us, but bad for the country. But we have a expectation of this opposition.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0062par0498	What kind of a thing is that? He's being sarcastic.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0052par0499	We're working, just don't cast a shadow. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0063par0502	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0064par0503	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0065par0504	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0066par0505	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0067par0506	Why don't you get in a line between yourselves and I'll give you my word? Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] One moment, my friends, members of the law, please... Mr. Kokturk, your Group Chairman would like a word, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0068par0511	Guys, excuse me.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0067par0512	Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0068par0513	From the beginning of his speech, the speaker on the stand has been very abusive and insulting to our group, sir, and I'd like to speak to you, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0067par0514	Here, Mr. Hamzacebi, I promise you two minutes because of the bullying. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But please don't give me any more trouble.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0069par0517	Mr. President, you've been listening for 20 minutes, now you're warning us. Last night you said it was clean.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0520	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the AKP's Foreign Minister candidates, are in session. A few days ago, we watched the Volcano steppe. (CHEERING) Today we saw Mevlüt Sergeant. Hopefully, with this fat-scented speech, they'll get the Prime Minister's attention, and they'll sit in the Foreign Minister's seat. It's a good thing we listened to Mr. Sergeant. We thought he represented Turkey abroad, successfully represented Turkey; it turns out that he was an extraordinary partisan, a person who had nothing to do with foreign policy, a person who had nothing to do with it, a person who had nothing to do with it. The issue was that Camp Apayd, Syria's Free Syrian Army was stationed in Turkey; there was a Sergeant here who didn't say a word about it. I agree with one sentence that outside policy requires seriousness. Yes, foreign policy is serious. What is NATO doing in Libya? A week after saying that NATO is a member of the armed forces of Turkey will not bring serious foreign policymen here to go to Libya.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0071par0524	Not a week, three days, three!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0525	Foreign policy requires seriousness. The Prime Minister, who says that we met with the PKKK in Oslo, is a scoundrel, a bastard. He later referred to these adjectives for someone else. Foreign policy requires seriousness.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0072par0527	Answer the Sergeant, Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0528	Foreign policy is serious, yes. Because of the cartoon crisis about the Prophet, Rasmussen can't be NATO Secretary General. There can't be a Turkey who says "Other than Rasmussen" and votes for Rasmussen the next day; foreign policy is serious.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0072par0530	You answer your Sergeant!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0073par0531	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0532	In Gaza, nine people died in the incident of Mavi Marmara, and Turkey was big and didn't intervene. He says that foreign policy demands seriousness. Turkey was unable to intervene in the sack case; foreign policy requires seriousness. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0074par0536	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0537	Mr. President, our group has been hit so hard, you've given me two minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0074par0538	I know, but, Mr. Hamzacebi, four people are next in line in your group.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0539	But look, in your previous practice, you've given me three minutes here last week, just this week.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0074par0540	Well, here's another minute, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0070par0541	Thank you, Prime Minister. (Laughter) Mr. President, I hope you'll be Prime Minister, and I'm sure you'll do better. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, foreign policy requires seriousness; a dictator is not allowed to be killed after receiving a peace prize from him. Foreign policy requires honesty. You received a reward from him, and then you sold Gaddafi. Foreign policy requires seriousness. Foreign policy demands seriousness; it is not possible to hold a joint Council of Ministers meeting with Syria, vacation with Assad (Assad) in Bodrum, and then deploy the Free Syrian Army in Turkey the next day because Washington and Brussels want it, and face Assad's regime in Syria. Foreign policy requires seriousness. Summarize Turkish foreign policy in 1 word. I'd say good. But if you call it two words, it's not good. They asked one person in Greece: sum up the economy in one word. What if, how can it be so good, the economy is falling apart. You said, "E," "L" is one word. If you say two words, it's not good. I'll say that your foreign policy is in this situation.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0075par0547	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0076par0548	Let's have a different party, and then...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0077par0549	Mr. President, this is Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0076par0550	Please have a seat, it's about you to continue, so we'll give it to you in the end. Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0078par0552	Sir, Mr. Sergeant said things I didn't say in his speech by showing me as a witness.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0076par0553	Mr. Turkesh, please come in before you start a new taunt. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0078par0556	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have just expressed in their speech that the AKP has done its own work in 2008 and that it has now been done by comparing the Republican People's Party's initiative on arrested MPs to each other.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0079par0557	I said rumor.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0078par0558	I have been a member of the Turkish delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for five years. At that time -- Mr. Sergeant -- of course he can't testify and admit -- extraordinary private relations -- were handed out copies of the closure case in different languages to the parliamentarians there, some of their children were hired in some companies in Istanbul, received gifts, taken to games. We know what was done there at that time. So in fact, Mr. Sergeyoglu is a witness. He said, "Turkish is a witness." I swear, I didn't go to this last session at this time, but I've never seen friends in the Republican People's Party have this kind of skill. I wanted to present these, one.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0079par0560	Here it is, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0078par0561	I have all those papers, Mr. Mevlüt, not just here, in my room, but I'll bring them, and we'll talk whenever you want. Two: And don't get the wrong idea that we don't support the Republican People's Party general at this point, as I just said, we don't support this now in order to strengthen the political structure behind the Turkish Armed Forces and the institutions of the Turkish state, or we don't embrace any part of the politics that you're doing and saying, and we don't like it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0080par0565	Thank you. Mr. Coach, how did you get picked on? Here you go. What did he say, Mr. Sergeant?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0567	Mr. Sargeglu has made a distortion of the work of the CHP on the Council of Europe, stating my name. I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0080par0568	No, what did he say? He gave your name, what did he say?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0569	Sir, it's in the transcripts. He mentioned my name.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0080par0570	But you have to express it to get it to the transcripts. What did he say by saying your name? That's what I'm asking, Mr. Coach.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0571	That the Republican People's Party is cooperating with Turkey's enemies...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0080par0572	Here you go, Mr. Coach. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0574	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, let me say I'm very sad. He served as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for two years and has now made several accusations. My late mother was sick then, I couldn't go, but on all the commissions, I'm a Republican People's Party MP who collected signatures for Mr. Sargegoğlu to become president, and she thanked me by mentioning my name when she spoke to me on the stand -- after the election. My dear friends, I mean, you're a little surprised by the memory, so I'd like to remind you. Of course, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but these three semesters are starting to bore you, my dear friends. If only you had not done so in this way. That's what this is all about. So in order to get another political position outside the parliament, attractions start, and politically, there's some behavior outside of the line he's drawn so far. I never thought of it as a friend of mine. No Republican People's Party has ever acted or acted at any point in the Council of Europe, except in Turkey's national interests; yesterday or today.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0082par0578	What's this?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0579	Now, as for the arrested MPs, Mrs. Gülsun and I have collected the signatures, and the people he refers to as enemies of Turkey are the ones Mr. Sergeyoglu invited to Antalya in private. It's the people he's hosting in private hotels.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0082par0581	I never hosted the French.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0582	Mr. Sergeant has learned to lobby at the Council of Europe. If you don't get another position politically, brother Mevlüt, look, with your experience of certain countries, you can become a political lobbyist. This is a very serious accusation, and I had to say so on the basis of your words. Turkey's report is being discussed in the Control Commission. Yes, a French senator who doesn't speak English, socialist senator, Turkey Reporter. We get along a lot better. Mr. Memecan of the ruling group is on the Board of Control, and I am of the opposition group. That's a closed meeting, no outside information. What I'm saying is that I have to criticize my country, but these are my criticisms because I believe democracy will contribute to its development in Turkey within universal rules. What was I supposed to say, Mr. Sergeant? Is that what I was going to say? Isn't the judge going to tell you that your independence is ejaculated? Didn't I tell you you had students in prison in Turkey? Didn't I tell you there were arrested journalists? Didn't I tell you that the judgment alone is dominated by a man in power? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That there's a democracy with four heads and all its institutions? (HPP) These are not betrayals of Turkey. Look, four years ago, there was no criticism against the AKP in the European Union... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] But today, friendly countries...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0083par0591	Mr. Coach, thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0592	...everyone is questioning the point of democracy brought by the AKP in Europe, and I'm telling Mr. Sergeyoglu the word of a German parliament...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0083par0593	Mr. Coach, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0081par0594	...you're speaking to a former Speaker of Parliament who doesn't suit you. It doesn't suit you, Mr. Sergeant!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0084par0597	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0085par0598	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0086par0599	Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0085par0600	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, the speaker used the word "juggler" in his speech. He's a juggler about April. I want an explanation about this.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0086par0601	Here you go, Mr. Sun. I promise you three minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0085par0604	Mr. President, speaking on behalf of the AKP Group, the speaker has accused me of juggling Apadun, for my speaking, for my bringing, for my attempt to illuminate the darkness of Apaedil, correct?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0087par0605	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0085par0606	Is it true?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0087par0607	No, it's a lie. I didn't say that.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0085par0608	Then you can come and tell me that's not true here because I'm trying to enlighten the public. As a result of our lighting the public, 56 per cent of Turkey believes that an armed education was given at Acaydun, and two-thirds of Turkey does not support the government's Syrian policy. If that's the case, the government must sit down and reason, first thinking, "How do I change this policy?" No, if that policy doesn't change, he should change the Minister. That responsibility falls to us, and as the Republican People's Party, we've given a gene. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0088par0612	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0089par0613	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0088par0614	Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0089par0615	Mr. President, earlier speakers have made some very serious accusations in their speech, especially Mr. Haluk Coach...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0090par0616	What did he say? What did he say?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0088par0617	Just a second, Mr. Lawmakers... Mr. Sergeant, do you want three minutes for each speaker, or do I give you three?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0619	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0088par0620	Is three minutes enough, or do you want three minutes for each speaker?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0621	I want four times three, twelve minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0088par0622	Here, I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0624	Mr. President, I've clearly asked the Republican People's Party a question here.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0092par0626	Who did you host in Antalya?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0088par0627	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0628	Now, I asked a question, they didn't answer it. I said, if what the Republican People's Party did today is true, why did the Republican People's Party criticize and attack us four years ago in order to take us to the execution? I wanted him to answer that. Were you able to answer that? Besides, in the declaration at the time...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0093par0630	What's this! Because of these, because of these!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0632	In the declaration at the time, dear friends, no AK PARTY signed, but today's declaration includes Republican People's Party members, dear friends, signatures.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0093par0634	Over here, over here!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0094par0635	Look, it's showing, look!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0636	Now the answer to that... and Mr. Turkesh says: "He doesn't make friends, good boys." Mr. Turkesh, read the document, and then, please, I'd like your opinion on this.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0095par0638	Mr. Sergeant, please... answer the bullying, please.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0639	I just told Mr. Turkesh, Mr. President. Now, dear friends, I want to answer what Haluk Bey said. Mr. Haluk says...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0095par0642	Mr. Sun, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0643	You hosted people from the Council of Europe in Antalya. Why did we welcome people from the Council of Europe to Antalya as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? 1) We've invited the commissions. 2) We held political party meetings, different commissions. 3) We've made a one-day mini-committee in my term presidency...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0096par0647	Mr. Sergeant, if you go with that head, you won't be able to take the army.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0648	...and dear friends, many MPs came to Antalya...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0097par0649	Explain that!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0650	...and without distinction, the socialist group, the conservative group, and after that, we hosted the extreme left, Christian Democrat, all the MPs; we hosted them in Ankara, and we hosted them in Istanbul. How is that a crime? What's the crime, Mr. Turkesh? What you're saying is that he gave work to the children of Istanbul and so on and so forth, the gift... it's all a lie. You only complained that we were given lokum. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's not true. Show me proof, Mr. Turkesh. I'm talking to the documents. It's easy to come here and lie. Talk to the document.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0098par0651	You're a liar! You're the liar!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0652	What you say is a lie, Mr. Turkesh. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, dear friends, Mr. Coach said...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0099par0655	Who did you entertain in Antalya?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0100par0656	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0657	I told you, listen to who I'm hosting! (CHP and MHP rows) We've hosted them all.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0101par0658	He won't make you Secretary of State! You deserve this disgrace.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0659	He says, "Mr. Turkesh, when you're done, you'll help the countries. " And you know why the German he just said criticized me, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0101par0660	You've said a lot of big words and you deserve this disgrace, Mevlüt!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0661	Ben criticised me for speaking in favour of Azerbaijan on the European Council. Mr. Turkesh, that's what Mr. Coach puts forth.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0102par0662	You've been read today, my friend!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0663	I've worked for Turkey for ten years, I've worked for Azerbaijan, I've worked for Cyprus, I've worked for other Turkish republics, I've worked for Palestine.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0102par0666	A man can be so miserable! We respected you, too!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0091par0667	I'm going to work again, I'm going to work even if I'm not a politician, I'm going to work all the time.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0103par0669	Thank you, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0102par0670	Come on, come on, sit down!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0104par0671	Don't keep lying!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0103par0675	Now, on behalf of the government, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu has asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0678	Mr. President, on behalf of the People's Republican Party, I stand before you on the basis of the gene question against me. Every gene, every criticism, every special session is an opportunity for us to inform our great House and our beloved nation of our foreign policy. I've shared with you the general principles of our foreign policy and the level we've reached in the global field on the occasion of the last June 6th. And on this occasion, I'm going to discuss relations with our neighbors, who are the main subject of the geneor. In fact, when given such a gene, I expected opposition speakers to bring an alternative paradigm about relations with our neighbors who have been being followed for ten years, not like this, but like this. Let them say, or take a holistic approach. Many have shown that they have nothing to say about relations with our neighbors, but that they exploit some of the current issues, showing some of the pictures that have only been in the press dozens of times before. In addition, if a foreign minister is being asked twice in six months, it is an embarrassment to parties that have brought foreign policy into such domestic politics, not to the Foreign Minister. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, come, for short, because I've shared many times, I'd like to share with you once again the subject of relations with our neighbors. We've had a major paradigm change over the last ten years of relations with our neighbors, that's true, we're behind this paradigm. When we said zero problems with our neighbors, we started a new era of high-level political dialogue. We built this new era on four fundamentals. One is the highest level of political relations. See, by 2004, the heads of state and government of many neighbouring countries, particularly Russia, had never been to Turkey. First, they came in and started more frequent interviews. Now there are at least four or five interviews in a year. I'm just saying for Russia, in the last year, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Putin and Mr. Medvedev have met with Mr. Medvedev, at least six or seven times, perhaps over ten. That's the level of relations with all our neighbors. That's not enough. While I took up the ministry's post, we have started high-level strategic co-operation councils, which are co-chaired by the two leaders, joint cabinet meetings with all our neighbours, co-chaired by our Prime Minister and the executive president; within three years, Russia, Ukraine, Iraq, Syria, Greece, Bulgaria, Egypt, Libya, Kazakhstan, and Azerbaijan. We did it last month with Azerbaijan and Ukraine, this month, yesterday with Kazakhstan, next month with Egypt, in December with Russia, and in January with Greece. We will maintain these relationships both at the level of personal and institutional level. The second principle is to promote cultural and social interaction within the basis of mutual respect, respect for borders, respect for nations. You see, as Secretary of State, there's one thing I've never neglected in all of my neighboring visits so far, is to meet our friends in our culturally related neighborhoods. I went to Greece, visited West Thrace, went to Bulgaria, visited Filipe, visited Kırcaali, went to Romania, visited Constanta, went to Moldova, visited the land of the Sky.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0106par0688	Come to camp, to camp.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0689	I went to Azerbaijan, and visited Nahchivan, and went to Russia, and visited Kazan, and went to Iraq, and visited Mosul, and Erbil, and Kerkuk; and went to Syria, and visited Aleppo. You know why? Because all those governments trusted us. We've made a bridge of friendship with those countries in the common cultural denominator, which was seen as a sense of threat in earlier times. We'll visit after this. Look, I was in Greece two days ago. After meeting with our progeny from West Thrace, we also longed for the Greeks who emigrated from Turkey in Farinos district, and I was honored to hear them call me "Mr. Minister" in that beautiful Turkish language. Here, we never divide religion, religion, ethnitism. Those who feel belonging to this land, wherever in the world, we take them as our own people, we accept our own diaspora, we don't take them as enemies. At a meeting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, an Armenian member asked a question about relations with Armenia. I said: "We only see two types of countries around us. " They waited for friends and enemies. Friends and potential friends, our future friends. We are determined to eliminate the enemy's call. Third key: this is Turkey's full economic integration with its neighbours. I can give you a lot of statistics, but we're short on time, so I'm just going to show you a picture. Look, there's our trade volumes with neighboring countries. Those dwarfs you see in red, they're from 2002, they're from 2011. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, with Russia, we've increased by six times the amount of $30 billion from what's called Russia.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0107par0694	How much is open with Russia? The risk has gone up.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0695	It's up 10 times with Iran. Each country has increased by at least 5 or 15 times. This year our trade with Iran will be worth 25 billion dollars. There is 25 billion dollars in Iran, as you call it. In 2002, it was only $1.2 billion. That's the difference we bring. If your trade is growing with a group of countries, it means that your chances of war are minimal, the chances of conflict are less, your friendship rings are expanding, so we're determined to expand it. Again, around neighboring countries, the fourth principle of our regional vision, this is going to happen today or tomorrow, but it's going to happen -- it's going to happen -- is that we want to create a whole area where people, goods, capital and ideas are free to travel, respect borders between neighbouring countries, but these borders are not as open as a wall, but as a neighboring door, every moment, it's yawning, it becomes insignificant, it becomes meaningless, it becomes meaningless. That's what we want in the Balkans and in the Caucasus and Central Asia, and in the Middle East. So this year in the Balkans we called eternal Balkan peace from the Balkan War. We've established the Turkish Council. Turkey-Bosna Herzegovina-Croatia, Turkey-Bosna Herzegovina-Serbia, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Gürcistan, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Iran. We've lifted visas with all the surrounding countries, especially neighbouring countries. Our dream, yes, our claim is that one day, someone who leaves Istanbul will go all the way to Sarajevo without any visas. One who leaves Istanbul will go to Yemen, to Morocco. One who leaves Istanbul will go all the way to Altais through the Caucasus Caspian.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0108par0699	So the West will only go to Sarajevo, Mr. Secretary? Can't he go to Europe? Just Sarajevo?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0700	This is our dream, this is our ideal, and we're going to make it happen. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, as for the criticism of CHP, this is the paradigm of our neighbouring policy. See, when a new paradigm is built, you build a new mentality. We built that mentality, we spread that mentality, we made it known all over the world, but sometimes individual and conjunctural events can bring challenges on these paradigms, but it can never shake the paradigm, it strengthens the paradigm. As a matter of fact, after the Arab Spring, of course, new elements came out of this paradigm, risks came out, advantages came out. As a matter of fact, today, new horizons have opened up in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Morocco, Turkey - a great advantage. We knew from the beginning that there could be risks in Syria. We are determined to resolve the risks of Syria in this paradigm, but it is not Turkey who is responsible for the Syrian crisis, nor our Syrian brothers who have gone out on the streets for democratic rights.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0109par0705	It's you, Mr. Secretary, it's you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0706	The cause of the Syrian crisis is the brutal Assad regime, which bombes its own people with snipers, when it's not enough, with cannons, tanks, and when it's not enough, helicopters, airplanes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0109par0707	10,000 Syrian soldiers are dead, 10,000! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0708	You're showing those pictures. The one on TV every day...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0109par0709	Brother kills brother! Brother's blood is flowing! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0110par0710	Mr. Eryılmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0711	Remember Hama, Humus, Aleppo.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0109par0712	10,000 Syrian soldiers are dead!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0110par0713	Mr. Eryilmaz, please sit down.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0714	No matter how the CHP tries to cover up the perpetrator of this massacre, and no matter how much it tries to clean up Bezar Assad, who is responsible for these massacres, if it tries to blame Turkey, the history, the human conscience, most importantly, our beloved nation and the people of Syria have witnessed that Turkey has done everything in its power.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0111par0715	People don't believe it, you know! Mr. Secretary, your constituent doesn't believe it either!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0716	Now, 120 countries voted yes to the bill condemning Syria at the United Nations General Assembly, and 12 countries voted no. Whose side are you on, what international community, your conscience?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0111par0717	Turkey, Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0718	120 countries think like us, 12 countries like you and Bezar Assad. Now, what I'm going to come to is that criticism in democracies is the most natural right. Every issue, every policy can be criticised, no exceptions, but politicians in the nation's representation must use this right with primitive and moral responsibility. In this regard, I always look for three elements: one, moral level in style and quality; two, honesty and internal consistency; three, the feeling of belonging to this great nation and to this great country, above all anxiety. Let us now consider the criticisms of Mr. Kilicdaroğlu and CHP, in terms of these three criteria, and take it in cold blood. Mr. Kilicdaroglu has repeatedly insulted me and before our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0112par0721	It suits him!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0722	Our Prime Minister has brought him to court, and he has convicted him many times. Now, I'd like to address my dear CHP MP friends, who I've been with in academic and cultural life with, and I'd like to address the people of CHP who have moral and knowledge: See, a statement by CHP Chairman Kılıçdaroğlu, an open statement to journalists, a blasphemy, I'm telling you clearly, they had to censor a slang blasphemy by censoring newspapers. Now, this isn't the first time it's been done, it's repeated over and over again. I would call it cruel to respond to these insults, because he's given the answer to the epoch and the adjectives: "If a person doesn't have decency/what happens to him, the school... /Velhasil illa edâté, i.e.,.......
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0113par0725	Is it appropriate to call the President General? Is that any way to talk about the president? You're talking about decency!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0726	Now, I'm not going to answer Mr. Kilicdaroglu in that way, but I'm ruining my legal rights. Yesterday, in an extremely marginal newspaper, there was a picture of a CHP MP tall with Assad. I sued that paper for slander...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0114par0728	It's me, Mr. Secretary, it's me.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0729	I sentenced him to 1 Turkish lira, to be symbolic. I'll apply it to the press, but I'll go to Kilicdaroglu with the highest penalty. You know why? To donate them to the orphans of the Syrian martyrs who died under the bomb of Bezar Assad. [[AK PARTY rankings (Bravo) voices, applause; noise from CHP rows]] Look, listen, listen. We've listened to you, and you'll listen. I'm not insulting you here, you'll listen! I've endured these insults for months, you'll listen, you'll listen!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0115par0732	Don't shake, don't shake!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0733	Second critique in criticism is honesty and internal consistency. Now, in the past few days, Mr. Kilicdaroglu in a television show, in another television channel, in an interview I did at TRT. Mr. Minister, he wants Faruk Sharia to be in charge of the country because he is Sunni.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0116par0735	On what grounds do you want it?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0736	So my friends at the State Department took out all the decryption and sent a note to the producer of the program, and he never mentioned Sunniness in that program for Faruk Shara. That's what this producer told Kilicdaroglu. No, he said it in a secret session. Now, look, in the moral sense of human decency, you shouldn't lie, but in the spirit of state, you have to keep the secret session a secret.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0117par0738	Your congressman made a statement to the press.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0739	But he also lied about the secret session, because I didn't even mention Faruk Sharia's name during the secret session. And when he left today, he said: "We already know him. He is fighting with Davutoglu in his head, not with the real Davutoglu. Because he sees that when he fights with the real Davutoglu, he will be very weak. He's fighting with his mind. (EC PARTI) Now, after he said that, he accepted only one thing, and he was right, and I did not read the Strategic Deepness. He's judging what he's not reading. How well did Mehmet Akif say: he doesn't look at the song, he doesn't know Garp, he doesn't have manners, he has a face that doesn't blush, he doesn't live, he has all the capital of the eye. There's no face to blush on, no conscience to shed a tear over this human tragedy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, I'm coming to the third criteria. I mean, the third critique is talking to this people's mouths, this people's...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0118par0744	Mr. Secretary, you're not telling the truth. That's not the name of that book, you're not telling the truth. Even you're not telling the truth. It's true, it's true. You don't even say your name right.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0119par0745	Mr. Akar... Mr. Akar... please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0746	You answer to the question.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0118par0747	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0105par0748	The third criterion is to put this nation and this country above all else. Now, look, whatever Bekar Assad says in Damascus, Ankara is saying the same thing. In Damascus, he says, "Those walking in the streets are terrorists!" says Bezar Assad, and Kılıçdaroğlu says the same here. Assad is responsible for this in Damascus. He says so here.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0120par0750	You say what Barack Obama says! You're just saying what America says!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0121par0751	Mr. Pine, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0122par0752	Mr. Secretary, you're lying, you're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0121par0753	Mr. Akar, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0123par0754	Those who are used to complaining about their own country, and who have adopted politics, can't promise this country anything. Look, I'll show you another picture, I'll show you another painting, you show me a picture.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0124par0756	Minister, what did you write in your book about Syria? What did you write in your book in 2002? Tell me what you wrote in your book, what did you write about America in 2002? Say them!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0125par0757	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0123par0758	Look, this picture is an example. At ceremonies known as ERsters, a marginal group supported and fed by Assad, images are shown the same as the organization of Hatay's insufferable advocate, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, and Hatay's army.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0126par0759	No more U.S. subcontractors, Davutoglu! No war in the Middle East!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0125par0760	Mr. Pine, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0123par0761	(...) (x) We sacrifice you with our soul, our blood within the group that says, "Assad!")
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0127par0762	Can you explain that?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0125par0763	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0123par0764	There was the president of the CHP Province. It's embarrassing, it's embarrassing. Now, CHP Speaker... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Sit down, sit down, sit down! This isn't a rally square, sit, sit, sit!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0128par0768	No U.S. subcontractors in the Middle East!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0129par0769	Mr. Pine, please sit down!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0123par0770	CHP spokesman mentioned Camp Apadun. Look, the Syrian Independent Research Commission, established by the United Nations Human Rights Council again, went there. Our Supreme Assembly's Human Rights Commission has gone; their report has no dignity; some provocative foreign press has a reputation for CHP spokesman. That's how much they respect this House.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0130par0772	The Washington Post says Le Monde, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0123par0773	He said the necessary words about Apaydın, but I'll tell you something else: Camp Apadun is a 130-acre area, there's a tent on the 90-acres, 1,385 tents, 40 acres of administrative spaces, materials, administrative buildings. There are 3,357 living, 843 of which are girls, 902 of whom are boys, 818 men, 794 women, 794 children. Is it possible to train weapons in this dense camp? If you throw a slingshot, it'll hit someone. And if he went to Google Earth, they'd see that this isn't what Mr. Sargeglu said. It's a matter of mentality and morality, friends. Everyone's facing a test today, and everyone's gonna call the shots. Thank you to the MHP, the National Movement Party, who determined the line as the cannon shell fell to Akchakale. Turkey stood by its side. But history will not forgive those who keep them in line with Bezar Assad, when three young children are martyred, when a shell falls to Akchakale!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0131par0774	Are you for peace or war? [[İzmir MP Musa Çam continued to display a banner written "No to the U.S. subcontractorship and War" in his hand.]] (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0132par0777	Mr. Pine, please, is there such a procedure? Mr. Pine, if you want, go up to Kızılay Square with that banner. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0133par0780	Those without words don't even fill their own time, they carry signs like this.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0132par0781	This isn't the place...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0133par0782	Now, we will never answer Mr. Kilicdaroglu in his manner. We will answer in the manner of Sheikh Edebali, the great and great nation of elders. It is our duty to defend this great country, no matter where or under any circumstances that Turkey complains to the world. I'm a foreign minister with the pride of waving this honorable flag everywhere. We will not sleep, and my first instruction -- Mr. Specialist Koruturk here knows -- was that when I took the assignment, my first instruction to the ambassador was: ▪ You will not come to me on purpose. If twenty-five hours are not enough, then twenty-five hours; if seven days are not enough, then the eighth day; and if thirty-one days are not enough, you shall find the second day. We will carry this great tradition forever. We've always been, by drawing the bottom - not the lack of intelligence, but the mind, the morality, the wisdom, the wisdom, the justice, the conscience, the dignity of humanity, and the speech of consciousness, and we will continue to be. (AK PARTY applause, where are the CHP's lines?) We don't expect any appreciation from CHP, nor from Kilicdaroğlu. We only expect the final decision and decision from the great God and the mighty nation, not from any other position. My respects.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0134par0787	No more U.S. subcontractors!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0135par0789	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0134par0790	No more U.S. subcontractors!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0136par0791	Hang it around your neck, around your neck!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0137par0792	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0138par0793	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0137par0794	Mr. Secretary, in his speech, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroğlu has made a mockery of both the Republican People's Party and the Republican People's Party, sir. I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0138par0795	Here you are, Mr. Hamzacebi, for bullying. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0137par0799	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I've listened to Mr. Secretary of State, but I haven't heard a single sentence from him about the matter of the geneor. (AK PARTY rankings) Isn't the point of the opposition Syrian military forces being deployed at Camp Apaedil in Hatay, contrary to Article 92 of the Constitution, without permission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0139par0801	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0137par0802	Isn't it the presence of the opposition Syrian army commander and his soldiers?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0139par0803	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0137par0804	According to Article 92 of the Constitution, there is a clear discrepancy, which is the reason for the Supreme Court. One day, history will see that the people responsible answer to the Supreme Court. How those who now carry out the coup on September 12, 80 will go to the courts, and if they are tried there, one day, those in charge of the Camp Apaedun will answer in court.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0140par0806	You won't get out of the trunk.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0137par0807	Yes, we believe that Mr. Kilicdaroglu, the Republican People's Party, Mr. Davutoglu is the most unsuccessful Minister of Foreign Affairs in the history of the Republic. Mr. Davutoglu has nothing to do with this. When he doesn't give it, God knows what, Sultan Mahmoud. That's the point, so he can't help it. He's eager, but unfortunately, he can't keep up, he can't. That's why your foreign minister candidates came up here, and he says I'm in. Mr. Davutoglu, keep an eye on those speakers. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] The esteemed MPs, Mr. Minister, gave me an example, which reminded me of an article of the Minister's in the 90s, which we talked about in Parliament, and I will not return to him, but it was an understanding that the Turkish Republic saw the Republic as a queue for Western civilization. We did his evaluation in those days. Turkey's goal is historically Western, but today the Minister is saying something. The day will come in the West, we will go to Sarajevo without a visa. It says, "The day will come when we will go to Yemen without a visa." I mean, there is a Minister of Foreign Affairs who aims for Turkey, a leader of the Islamic world, or rather the Sunni Islamic world -- there are no Shiites, no Alevis -- a religious foreign policy. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. Secretary, I would like you to answer me this: Mr. Prime Minister said at the time of the incident with the Blue Marmara, that this was actually a cause of war, but we, as a minister of personal foreign policy, were not able to intervene, we did not send troops there. Can't you say anything?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0141par0812	What did you guys talk about? You supported Israel!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0142par0813	Get out of here! Did anyone say that?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0143par0814	The whole world says it's a success!
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0144par0815	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0145par0816	Mr. President, during his speech, those who didn't take a stand for the attack on Akkale are the Assadists who have accused the Party of Peace and Democracy.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0144par0817	Did he mean your party, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0145par0818	Yeah, yeah. I'll make a statement about him.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0144par0819	Did he mention your name, Mr. Baluken?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0145par0820	He pointed out those who didn't vote, blaming those who voted against AKP's war policy. The Peace and Democracy Party voted that way. So we were accused. I'd like to make that statement.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0144par0821	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0145par0823	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, there's no way to agree with the description the Minister has stated here. At the time of the attack on Akçakale, we expressed it here in a language that immediately condemned the massacre on the Parliamentary General Assembly, which unfortunately excluded Turkey from its AKP policies, which put Syria in a position of war with Syria. Mr. Secretary said we didn't condemn the attack on Akchakale because he couldn't possibly follow him. That is not true knowledge. On the other hand, it's not democratic to expect us to approve all the war policies you've brought. You can never stand behind war policies and make an assessment of whether you're pro or anti-government. From the beginning, we are a political party who held hundreds of events against Assad while Assad was slaughtering, and in 2004 he was massacred. It is necessary to ask the Minister: On March 12, 2004, when you detained thousands of Kurds, you called the Assad regime a massacrer while the forces of Kobani, Kobani, Assad, slaughtered 36 Kurds in Kobani. Have you ever entered into any attitude that would somehow deter the regime from its policy? At this stage, there is a Peace and Democracy Party that is concerned about the country's war policies and is warning the country to turn this wrong, and unfortunately, there is a practice of power that is rapidly sailing into dangerous waters in the trajectories of war. Therefore, the Peace and Democracy Party has never wronged Assad in the past or today, condemning all the massacres that Assad had committed. On the other hand, from Mr. Minister's specific statements, we didn't understand anything about Syrian policy, about Kurdish policy. It's more like a polemic run by the leader of the main opposition party, and we see it as a huge misfortune. We would like to know what our foreign policy on identity, language, status of Kurds in Syria thinks, but we want to say that its mirror is also the Kurdish policy inside. I would also like to point out that we do not expect a healthy foreign policy on the identity and status of Kurds in Syria from a ruling party that says education is not the main language. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0146par0832	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0147par0833	Yes, Mr. Secretary, what do you want to say?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0146par0834	Mr. President, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi has claimed to be a religious leader of the Sunni world, and I want to give him an answer.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0147par0835	Here you are, Mr. Secretary. Please, let's not get into any more bullying, let him be the last speaker. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0148par0840	Mr. President, I'm sorry to invade your peace again, but we need to discuss a matter of utmost importance. In his speech, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi claimed that after I said "Sarajbosna," our Western policy was over and that the leadership of the world of Sünni was a mere sectarian. And when I said that, I said that because I was talking about the surrounding areas, I said, "Sarajbosna," but very soon, hopefully, we'll remove the barriers to Schengen, and we'll go on a free visa with all of Europe. We have never abandoned this goal, we will not abandon it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As for the Sunni world, you've been scratching it all the time, provocating it all the time. In our Middle Eastern policy and in any of our policies, it has never been an ethnic and religious basis. We opposed his authoritarian and dictatorial conduct, and Mubarak was Sunni, and Gaddafi was Sunni, and Saddam was Sunni, and Bin Ali was Sunni. We resisted because they were being persecuted. We oppose Bezar Assad, not because of his sect, but because of his persecution. Since we had not discriminated against such a distinction before, our relationships were normal when he did not oppress his people. Also, I would like to point out that what I said in that program about Faruk Sharia should not be drawn elsewhere. When I'm asked, how can I live this transition process? (It's just that, in terms of the transition period, someone who has experience in the system, until the people make the final decision, if they don't get their hands on the blood, can take a role...) I reminded Faruk Shara because he's always shown his opposition to us with the information that has come to us, because it's not important, or because it's not important to interfere with the past party or the future, and we don't interfere with the administration of any country, just as a transitional part of the Geneva Covenant. We're already talking about this with Russia, with America. How will it be a transition period? he said: "O We've signed the Geneva Convention and we're sitting down and we're talking about who can make this transition healthy? It's not a support given to anyone. For us in Syria, every Muslim and Christian, every Sunni, Alevi, Dürzi, every Arab, Kurd, Turkmen, they're all saints to us, they're all our brothers.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0149par0846	Get out of here! And so will we.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0148par0847	When we voted for Iran at the United Nations Security Council, you said, "No."
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0150par0848	He sent $18 billion, Iran, $18 billion.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0148par0849	We have done what our conscience says, regardless of whether Sunni is Shia or Shia.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0150par0850	Iran sent 18 billion dollars, and you didn't have to make a deal with the IMF. We know everything.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0148par0851	And we've shown there that in our world there's no distinction between Sunni, Shia, Muslim, Christian or ethnic or religious. In our world, it is only the brotherhood of men, especially the Middle East, the Balkans, the Caucasus, the brotherhood of brothers and sisters, and the brotherhood of brothers and sisters, in peace and peace that we will work day and night until peace is made. My respects.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit01spe0151par0854	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Talks on whether or not to issue a motion to ask about Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu have been completed. Now, I'm going to vote on whether or not the motion to ask for a gene will be raised. All those in favor of bringing up the motion... Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, Applause in CHP rows!] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit02spe0151par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 8th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranking Commission for Public Affairs and the European Union's Compliance Commission on Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the second talks of İstanbul MP Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Osmaniye MP State Bahçeli and 309 MPs in the 4th rank of Justice and Development Party, and the Constitutional Commission Report on the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The Commission and the Government are in place. Members of parliament, the first meeting of the proposal was completed on 10/10/2012 at 12:37 p.m. As it is known in the second meeting of constitutional amendment proposals, there is no discussion on all proposals and clauses, only amendment proposals on substances are discussed, and in the first meeting, there is no motion for a second meeting on a substance that does not have a amendment proposal. In the first meeting of the proposal, there was a amendment motion on the 1st and 2nd amendments. Now, I'm going to read the first article of the proposal: ON THE RIGHT TO CHANGE THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY REPUBLIC The Constitution of Republic of Turkey No. 2709, dated 1-7/11/1982, added the following temporary clause to the Constitution. "The day of voting in the first general election of local administrations after the adoption of this Law is the last Sunday of October 2013. According to the first joke, the last joke of the 67th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey shall not be applied on the basis of the first date of the election and the provisions of the Law on the election of Mahalli Administrations No. 18/1/1984 and the District Conventions and the election of the Old Committees." Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0151par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 8th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will resume the talks of the Law Proposal, 328 and 328. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion on article 1 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1st Amendment to the Constitution of the current Turkish Republic of Turkey. I propose that the clause be changed in the following manner. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel İbrahim Binici İdris Bauken Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Article 1- 7/11/1982 and the Constitution of Republic of Turkey 2709 added the following temporary clause. "Temporary 20- The day of voting in the first general election of local administrations after the adoption of this Law is May 26th of 2013. The last joke of the 67th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey in the election of local administrations under the first joke cannot be applied only on the date and day of the election of the Law on Mahalli Administrations No. 18/1/1984, and Article 2972 concerning the election of the District Conventions and the election of the Old People's Committees." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0152par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0151par0017	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0153par0018	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0151par0019	Ayla Akat Akat, Batman MP.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0154par0020	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the First Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. I salute you all. Dear MPs, we have again had a chance to evaluate the AKP's ruling law and the way to change the Constitution, and we feel the need to express it from this stand again. There is not a amendment, but a constitutional amendment and a Constitutional Compromise Commission already established for the amendment of the existing Constitution. By leaving behind a process in Turkey, with which you would include all political parties in the agenda of the Constitutional Amendment that you set up when the Compromise Commission was established, or without bearing such concern, you have visited one of the opposition parties as a ruling party, and visited the other without results, and brought this proposal into the Parliamentary agenda of change, which should not be politically, even politically, or politically, as a matter of criticism from our point of view. We have discussed the injustice of political parties outside Parliament or how those political parties, the groups present in Parliament, were left out of their legislative activity, but it is a fact that AKP must now discuss the way it has followed in the changes it has made in law making and in the Constitution. However, today, the assessments and discussions that we have made because of this proposal also reveal your approach to the Constitutional Compromise Commission. If it is considered to be discussed around a table with a culture of reconciliation -- which is a very compromiseable issue in Turkey -- that elections should be put on an early date or put forward -- without any consideration of this concern, we criticize the fact that today, despite the 10 per cent antidemocratic election threshold, the peace and democracy Party, which was given the support of the people to enter parliament, has again begun to negotiate in a way on the parliamentary agenda. Another issue: When we look at the reason for the proposal of the law, it is said that a free system of voters is being addressed. Now, if the elections are meant to be held in equal and democratic conditions, what are the conditions for achieving this equality, providing this democratic environment? It can change the existing laws. You are now using the authority that the Constitution does not grant. The Constitution does not regulate a situation of moving forward in terms of local elections, but you change the law first, then we adopt the law of harmony, and then we govern the process ourselves, you're in it. So we say, if the elections are wanted on equal terms, if they want to go to elections in a democratic environment, there are conditions, a process where guns are silenced first is organized. Other than that, among the existing sublaw norms in Turkey, there are regulations in the Election Law, the Political Parties Act, that we must address first.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0155par0025	Mr. President, the General Assembly is lobbying everywhere. Respect for the speaker. Invite them to sit down, so they can either come out or sit down.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0156par0026	Congressmans, there's a big hum in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0157par0028	The election laws and the relevant provisions of the Law of Political Parties have provisions that we need to address. For example, the 10 per cent antidemocratic election dam. What kind of product? The product of the coup d'état of September 12th. For what purpose? The Kurds, of course, were in favor of being represented in Parliament or in favor of solving the Kurdish problem as a project, which the Kurds, who had provided for the programme code, came here so that they wouldn't have a chance to represent themselves in Parliament, but it was very clear that after the 2007 elections, there was no dam in front of the public, and therefore you are entering into different antidemocratic applications for our political party group in Parliament. Come, let's change these laws; come, again, give the public self-criticism at the point where you arranged for the treasure aid you made just before we entered Parliament before the 2007 elections. Because of the arrangement you have made, let's share with the public, and let's make arrangements at the point of the treasury of the tax-taxed treasure that you've made regarding our constituents. Again, there are shares of local government. Many MPs have repeatedly stated: " Vote for us, vote for the AKP, and we will feed your municipalities. " At this point, the idea of service on the basis of the democratic, ecological, gender liberal paradigm, which the BDP municipalities have established, has condemned your understanding and your approach to the public. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0158par0032	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We will begin a secret vote on the first article of the proposal. I propose how the secret vote will be conducted: from the Commission and the Government, from the Clerk Members, from the Clerk Member Adana during the commission, to Denizli, and from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, including İstanbul; from the government to İzmir, and from Mardin to Zonguldak, to Zonguldak, including Zonguldak, to the legislature, one of whom will give a white, one of them, green, one of them, one of them, three round envelopes sealed with stamps and the envelope. The MPs will not be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the ministry's province, where they will vote in its place. As you know, one of these stamps is the white one, the red one is the rejection, and the green one is the abstention vote. The member will use the game after receiving three round stamps from the Clerk members and having his name marked in the name book, he will enter the closed voting place, where he will vote, where he will place the stamp in the envelope, where he will place the other two stamps in the cart. On the contrary, the letter containing the voting stamp will be placed in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. I urge our Members of the Clerks to pay attention to these issues and to make sure that the MPs are marked in the name book after receiving stamps and envelopes. Now, we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Members of parliament will replace Deputy Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Culture and Tourism Ertuğul Günay. National Defence Minister Ismet Yılmaz, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç will replace Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdoğan Baytar, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Energy and Development Taner Yıldız, Minister of Culture and Social Policy Fatma Şahin and Minister of Education instead of Minister of Education and Minister of Education and Minister of Education. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? Unless there's a member who's not using the game, we're completing the voting process. The voting process is complete, please remove the boxes. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, as a result of a secret vote on the First Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey: ▪ Number of votes used: 442 Matter accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of the publication of the Law and is voted on if it is presented to the public. There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2nd Amendment to the Constitution of the current Turkish Republic of Turkey. We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the article in order to be processed. Pervin Buldan Sebahat Tuncel Ayla Akat İdris Bauken İbrahim Biker Secret S. Leader Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0159par0067	He doesn't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0158par0068	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0160par0069	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0158par0070	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0161par0072	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0158par0073	Congressmans, please take our seats.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0161par0074	I salute you all. Of course, since the AKP General Assembly has been working so hard, I think our fellow MPs should vote and leave as soon as possible. He says, "Let's go." They're all standing. Dear MPs, Turkey is going through a new constitutional process today, but here we are trying to change a clause of the Constitution. Even here, in fact, the approach to a new constitution is very clear. This constitutional change can also be expressed as representing those who were not represented in this Constitution in the 21st century. One of the things that can't be represented is women. If we want to express the existing Constitution, the existing Constitution is a constitution that ignores other identities other than Turkish identity. The existing Constitution is a constitution that highlights a little more Sunni identity, which actually doesn't make much room for other beliefs. Again, it's a male constitution because it's organized by men. So I think it is necessary to discuss how to view this process in terms of women. Especially when we're running an argument over local authorities, it's just... Mr. President, if our congressman friends could just keep it down...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0162par0079	I did warn you, but again, lawmakers, there's a big hum in the hall. Please, let's sit in our seats and listen to the Minister. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0161par0081	While the local governments are considering their elections, it is clear that this should be discussed more seriously than the issue of prioritizing the election calendar. So, while this debate of local governments is being carried out, the discussion of the democratic autonomy system for having a real democratic system, again, women...
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0163par0082	Mr. President, your warning has been ignored, we cannot listen to the conversation. There's something important going on. So it's either sit down or leave the General Assembly. It's a shame.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0162par0083	Well, go ahead, sit him down. Well, I've warned you twice.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0164par0084	Mr. President, they didn't follow the warning.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0162par0085	Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0164par0086	Let's take a break and let the people in the living room come out.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0165par0087	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is important to assess the elections of local governments, as I say, in women's terms. When you look at Turkey's situation, it's actually very bad. Women represent only 0.8 per cent in Turkey as of the mayorate. The situation is a little better in council, 4.2 percent, but I'd like to point out here that the Peace and Democracy Party is the one that raises all these rates because the Peace and Democracy Party is taking quotas in local governments. The situation in the village chiefs is much worse; it's 0.2. Only one of the 100 chosen people across Turkey is a woman. So if there's actually going to be a change, we think it's important to make a change from this point right here. It's especially important for the women here to consider it during these constitutional debates. Again, we have expressed our views and suggestions in the debates of this law that this is antidemocratic, that the law should be changed as a whole. I don't know how much these are expressed in terms of lawmakers here, but it's one-on-one. Although there is no changes in the Constitution, it is important for political parties here to apply quotas to women, to practice positive discrimination. And for that, I think, especially in the process of making the Constitution, the fact that quotas, positive discrimination, are a right in the Constitution, will also eliminate the joy of groups. The lawmakers are going through a really important process, Turkey, which is that the pain of change, on the one hand, insists on not changing. We've just discussed a gene question, especially the Middle East and Syria issue. In fact, there are serious problems in our own country. We've always been looking for war from outside, but we've never felt the need to talk about the war in our own country or to solve our own problems. I don't know if you're aware that this country's prisons have been on an endless hunger strike for 30 days, so people have put their bodies to death for two demands. One of these demands is the right to defend in a very common native language, which is a point that has blocked the courts today. Although the Prime Minister responded, stating that the native language is not a right. Apparently, there's already an approach at the point of sending our fellow hunger strikers to their deaths. The other is about fixing Mr. Ocalan's conditions. These two demands can solve the Kurdish problem in Turkey. We can solve our own problem, but these issues are not discussed here, I'm afraid. We can talk about other countries very freely, but we don't talk about problems in our own country. Once again, I salute our friends who are on hunger strike in prison, and I invite the House to take responsibility and duty in this matter.
tbmm-2012-10-12sit03spe0166par0094	[[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. We begin the secret vote of Article 2 in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Deputy Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Culture and Tourism Ertugrul Günay, Minister of National Defence Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç, Minister of Environment and Urbanism, and Minister of Environment and Water Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız, Minister of Culture and Social Politics, Minister of Education, Minister of Education and Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture, Mehmet Mehmer and Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture to replace Minister of Agriculture, Mehmet Mehmer and Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The voting process is complete, please lift the cups. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, as a result of the secret vote of Article 2 of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey: ▪ Number of votes used: 440 Thus, Article 2 is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
