tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in two minutes' time. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government has the right to respond to speeches, and the response period is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Israeli Barracka, a member of Artvin MP who wanted to speak on behalf of the 91st anniversary of the liberation of Artvin (March 7th). Here you go, Mr. Barracks.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs tomorrow is the 91st anniversary of the release of March 7 of Artvin. I hereby take an off-the-book stand on behalf of myself and salute your delegation. I'd like to begin by reminiscing with mercy and gratitude for our faithful martyrs and veterans who have sacrificed their lives in the salvation of Artvin. Artvin, held by the Turks until the 19th century, has been invaded by the Russians twice. The Ottoman-Russian wars, known in history as 93 Wars, have had heavy consequences for Artvin and his environment. At the end of the 1877-1878 Ottoman-Russian Wars, Batum, Kars, Ardahan, Elezkirt, Whiteıt and Artvin were left to the Russians in the Ayastefanos Treaty, signed on 5 March 1878. As a result of the popular vote on 3 March 1918, Artvin demanded over 99 per cent of the people's population to dominate Turkey, and Artvin was left without war in the hands of the Turks. By the end of World War I, the people of Artvin were exposed to Russian occupation, and in November 1914, under the command of Captain Ismail Bey, the Melo battalion led by the Melo battalion, the city and its surroundings were cleared of the Russians. Our province of Artvin received its original freedom on March 7, 1921. The years of captivity of Artvin and Artvinite have been painful and painful for years. In the years of captivity, the people of Artvin lived in poverty, sickness, and misery, but they never surrendered to captivity, resisted in captivity for many years, fought against invading forces. Each time, it was achieved against enemy forces, but with the weak governments of its time, Artvin had not been able to preserve the victories, and Artvin had to be abandoned to the enemy at all times. Artvin achieved full independence as a result of the military and diplomatic success of the Turkish Grand National Assembly government. Although Artvin was held by the Mondros Ink and the Ottomans, he was then invaded by the British and Georgians for a short period of time. The Karabekir Pashas, Halit Pashas, have a great deal to do in winning Artvin. I remember them with grace and mercy, and ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. Every inch of our country's land has been left home to us at the cost of the blood of our sacrifice. We have to appreciate this country and work with it. Unfortunately, in the past days, governments that have been in charge of the country have failed to show the precision and success necessary for the development of every part of our country at the same level. For this reason, the province of Artvin was also among the cities that were migrating to the point of both studying and finding work. Despite its unique natural beauty -- a province that will be the center of life -- its villages are completely empty, not even in the field of tourism. For the first time, during the AK PARTY administration, Artvin began to get enough credit for investments. As a result of dam investments, Hopa Tunnel, hospital investments, university establishment, incentives in agriculture, animalism and tourism, the migration from Artvin is now at a standstill, and even returns have begun. I believe that as lawmakers, we all have a great responsibility to be worthy of the practice that has entrusted us with this land as our homeland, to raise our country to the level of conflicting civilization in accordance with the goals shown. Our national days, our holidays, our days of salvation, and our religious festivals are the days of our national unity and unity. I would like to point out that this unity and unity should not only be limited to the days of salvation and the holidays, but that every good work in the name of our country should be acted in the same sense of unity and unity. In the 91st year of the liberation of Artvin, I celebrate the victory of all the Artvinites and our nation. On this occasion, by defending every inch of our country's land, I once again reminisce about our martyred, veteran, with mercy and gratitude, and salute your great delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Barracks. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Artvin MP Uður Bayraktutan who wants to speak on the same subject. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, Artvin, who was imprisoned for years, was rescued from enemy occupation on March 7, 1921, 90 years ago. Happy release of March 7th, Artvin. From the 9th century to the 7th of March 1921, Artvin was a city of honor, under the rule of various tribes, witnessing many different civilizations. A brief chronological history has been studied, and history has always been a settlement of suffering. Artvin, who joined Islam during the Ottoman era in 646, changed hands several times among the Byzantine and Islamic armies of the Ottoman Empire, joined the Azerbaijan Atabas in 939, then to the Mongols and Ilhans in the 9th century, and to the Akkoyulans in the 15th century, a representative of another civilization. Throughout history, Artvin and its region breathed in the 1500s, despite the Georgian invasion of the Georgians; after the Ottoman-Iran struggle in 1570, it remained in the hands of the uninterrupted Turks until the beginning of the 19th century, as a result of the final Ottoman-Iran struggle in the region. In 1917, the Bolshevik Revolution in Russia broke out, signed on December 18, 1917, the Erzincan Armistice Treaty and Artvin were evacuated again, claiming that after the Bolsheviks withdrew, the Armenian militias in the region, Kars, Ardahan, Artvin, Batum and Ahiska, began the massacres, claiming that they owned them. Black clouds on Artvin have never been finished. On October 30, 1918, Artvin was evacuated with the Mondros Investigation. The Treaty of Customs was signed on December 3, 1920. This is the first success of the Battle of Salvation. Artvin, who has been occupied for years, was rescued from enemy occupation 90 years ago today. The power of Artvin and Artvinli is my character. Throughout the history of the Republic, the Supreme Leader has also been the tireless defender of Ataturk's principles and revolutions. On the morning of March 7, 1921, Artvin, who had been invaded during various periods of history, was granted freedom and independence forever and never to change hands again, when our glorious Turkish army entered Artvin. The Moscow Agreement, signed on 16 March 1921, was announced to the entire world that Artvin and Artvin's people could not live in captivity. One of the most important military achievements of the Battle of Salvation, Artvin (Artvin), is also the first military diplomatic achievement of the government of the TBM. It's an epic story, as the wise man once pointed out in Kuvaimilliya's saga, the salvation of Artvin. What was he saying: The mountains were burning one by one, And the stars are so bright and so fresh, The guy with the fancy heart, not knowing how or when he's coming, He believed in a good, easy time. And he was standing there with his smiling mustache next to his mavser, All of a sudden, five steps to his right, he sees her, The Pashas were behind him, He asked me about the time, The Pashas called it three. He looked like a blonde wolf, And his blue eyes were lighters. He walked to the top of the cliff, bent over. If they let go, Spreading on its thin, long legs, And glides like a floating star in darkness, He was going to jump from the plains of Abyon. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the sun always rises in this country from the northeast, from Artvin, and we Artvinians always return to the sun, our faces, to the light, to the modern way of life. We only learn from the past, carry our values, return to tomorrow and to the future, our faces, our bright future. Ataturk looks upon our face, and beholds their values, and their revolutions, and their principles. If there is, we'll be the first to notice any danger. We'll be the attributes of this republic that first responds, struggles, and never gives up on the values of this republic, never compromises. We own democracy, we never give up on it because we're from Artvin. We are in all the values of this land. We're the sun from the northeast. In this country, we are the sun that rises to any darkness where democratic participation and struggle is sought, under which the values of the republic are underlined, because we are Artvinian, we look at the light. In his entire past, the extraordinary union of Artvinli, who did not know his interests, his bigotry, and his brother's quarrel, has marked the development of Turkey on this modern Ataturkist road. Artvinli, Ataturkian, republican spirit celebrates another day of salvation. On March 7, 1921, Artvinli, who fired the enemy, will now destroy the collaborators who attacked Cerattepe on the same national spirit and fighting force and tried to rape our land. [[Applause from CHP rows]] He celebrates March 7th Independence Day with unity and unity; honor to work, to share with you, as your great delegation, especially to his hometown of Artvin. He salutes all the lovers of Artvin and Artvin, who follow us on their television. He salutes you again from the temple of Ataturk, modernity, education, republic, and the torch of Kemalism, and the salvation of Artvin.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0005par0066	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Mr. Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about problems in agriculture and animalism. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0006par0071	Mr. President, the more I can say for five minutes, the more the reserves remain. First, I celebrate the liberation of Artvin County from enemy invasion. I hereby bless all our martyrs who saved Artvin from enemy occupation. Today, an economic model is being implemented in Turkey that prioritizes consumption, production instead of exports, imports instead of exports. In the ruling economy, there is a policy on consumption, imports, trade, debt and imitation. This political livestock country has made Turkey an animal, an agricultural country, and Turkey an importer of produce, and Turkey an importer of fruit. Turkey faces a government that imports everything, not just its friends and neighbors, but its every thought. I'd like to draw your attention to some food products imported during the limited period of power at work. The AKP government imported 1.5 billion dollars in corn from 2002 to 2010. Between 2003 and 2011, $5.4 billion in wheat, $1.1 billion in imports in rice. Between 2003-2011, $3.8 billion was imported to soy; 9.9 billion was imported to cotton; 2.3 billion was imported to sunflowers. For 2011, the total amount of food imports is 27 billion dollars as of November. Imports of consumer goods have increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent over the past decade. The increase in 2010 was 30 per cent from the years when Turkish lira was overvalued. Thus, Turkey, which imports $4 billion of consumer goods annually ten years ago, is now over $30 billion. Turkey imports more than 11 million mobile phones every year. Two of every three vehicles are imported. As of 2010, the number of cars sold will be 354. That number was 154 thousand in 2003. The government's exports in 2011 increased by 18 per cent to $134.6 billion compared to 2010. It boasts of a virtual record broken in exports. However, imports in Turkey in 2012 are 237, exports are 132 billion dollars. That's the real record. Cari was at an open $78 billion level. The difference between production and consumption, exports and imports, revenues and revenues, investment and finance, investment and savings comes to our attention in a fair way. In 2008, exports were reduced to 65.37, while in 2011, to 55.26. The Republic boasted that it knitted the country with iron nets. The AKP boasts about knitting the country with shopping malls. The opening of each shopping mall is causing hundreds of tradesmen to shut down in Turkey and thousands of citizens to become unemployed. Turkey faces an unrestricted power in debt and debt. This includes nurse imports, doctor imports, teacher imports. It would be much more appropriate to describe this government as a government of imports, not really the AKP government. I would like to draw special attention to a form of import here: Turkish businessmen import scrap iron today, then process it and sell it to China. For the past five years, Turkey has been the world's 1st in the import of scrap iron. This scrap iron incident also raises a kind of structural problem that exists in the Turkish economy. There's iron ore in Turkey, and that's what we do by creating new, modern businesses and spending money on imported and imported energy where we can sell it. It's a shame, this country is being sinned. You imported what was possible from the fields of this country. You've imported animals from the meadows of this country that should grow from its meadows. Angus, you imported, I don't know, this much meat. You imported the fruits that could be produced in the gardens of this country. While the government boasts that our exports have increased by 18 per cent in 2011 and increased by 34 per cent, as I just said, really, everything produced in Turkey chooses to import rather than produce anything possible to produce. On this occasion, I salute everyone.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0007par0083	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Now, to answer off-the-top talks, Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0008par0087	Twenty minutes to five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0009par0088	First, you must thank Özcan Yeniçeri, and you will speak for twenty minutes. Mr. President, members of the Supreme Assembly, I salute you all. I'm here to answer Mr. Yeniçeri's speech off the agenda. I salute you all again. Mr. President, in Turkey, we have taken the agricultural sector as a strategic sector since we came to power in 2002, and for the first time, we have come up with a strategy plan for this sector. We did a sectoral depth analysis behind him, and at that time, basically, we changed the policy of support imposed on Turkey, which was imposed by the World Bank and the IMF in exchange for loans to Turkey. Because there will be no further support for the farmer, except for direct income support proposed to Turkey, which will not be related to production, efficiency. We have seen that support, given its understanding, has not advanced agriculture in Turkey and has not improved agriculture in Turkey and has changed agriculture sector, so we have changed it radically. Now, what did we do with it? First, let me tell you: Turkey, at the time when we arrived, was farmed at 24 million hectares, 7.5 million people were working on agriculture, and the value of the agricultural product that our citizens produced in this area was $23 billion. With this agricultural product, Turkey was ranked 11th in the world's countries. With the measures we've taken, with the policies we've implemented, with the strategy we've done today, Turkey is getting $62 billion in agricultural revenues, and with this $62 billion in agricultural revenues, Turkey's ranking has risen from 11 to 7. We are now ranked 1st among the European countries -- France, Spain, Italy, and the Russian Federation -- we passed through the period of the AK PARTY ruling, we passed by with our policies, and we came to the seventh place. Now, because of the projects that we've been implementing with regard to increasing agricultural efficiency, improving production, improving quality and standards, and while Turkey is a net exporter in the food industry, we have numbers that have been announced a few weeks ago, in Turkey, the food industry, the agriculture sector is the sector where Turkey has close to $4 billion of exports. With a painting like this in the middle, there's Turkey importing everything. To come forward on the charge and try to make it look like a failure, in fact, to us, it's very unfair and incompatible with the facts. Now, just today...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0010par0093	Answer the numbers we've told you, Mr. Secretary, and count what you imported one by one! You're going to import, you're going to trade in the world. Where in the world, which country in the world never imports... You don't sow the land of this country, you serve others. Is there a trade that only exports? Where in the world is there such a trade? You taught us about Angus, you taught us about the limo! There is no such thing in any country in the world. Show me one country, say, this country in the world doesn't buy from anyone, it just sells. Show me one country like this. There's no country like that. There's no way in the world that... You buy 5 and you sell 1. It's the work of your imagination. And that imagination is human... if you push the limits of your imagination, it'll take you somewhere else. So there's no country like this, and there's no truth like that. What's important is that Turkey is producing products it can produce, making its production maximum, increasing its efficiency. As I've just said, from 24 million hectares, $23 billion in agricultural revenues were made yesterday, and today from the same area, $62 billion in revenues, the world ranking, and Turkey's success with agriculture has been set an example for the world by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. I also showed you that report from this bench, and I said, "Look, there is talk of Turkey in the report published by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization under the name of the Roads That Go to Success." We, of course, have reached an important point, but we're not standing here, we're trying to bring Turkey to a better place. In particular, Turkey has a major problem with the division of farmland. This is a development that developed, emerged in 1926 with the Civil Law, and after that, it actually left the Turkish agriculture sector with a structural problem. We're trying to fix this right now. Last week, we invited the topic expert -- from universities and farmers, from vocational institutions, from vocational rooms -- and we held a meeting, we conducted a study with them, and we are currently polling with 50,000 people, and we will bring the proposal to the Parliament in light of that, and we will bring it to you, and hopefully, we will save Turkey from that problem. We, the government, have passed the Law on Land Protection and Land Use. We've put a limit on the divisional limit on agricultural land, limiting it to 20. But in order for this to be resolved better, more radically, we need an additional amendment, and we will bring him before the House. That's one of the things we're dealing with right now. The other issue is that Turkey is being productive through the collection of previously divided lands. In 1961, Turkey began its study of collecting agricultural land. In forty-one years -- in the meantime, until we took over the government -- Turkey has done this collective activity in just 450,000 hectares. From where we're taking over now, 1,800,000 hectares, which have ended, which are now in service, will continue, and will end at the end of this year, with about 2.8 million hectares of land massing over 4 million hectares, which our government will have completed as of the end of 2012. We're very concerned about that, too. And in the meantime, it's our goal to complete the collection of the land again. We're building a market regulation mechanism, especially for animal products in agricultural products. We're building a new mechanism that will interfere with both milk and meat. So in favor of consumers and producers, apart from each other, we're going to intervene here when prices are negative, attract supply when there's supply surplus, and in case there's supply shortage, we're going to develop a mechanism to present it to the market. We're setting up organized agricultural industrial areas. The organised industrial zones, which were previously part of the Ministry of Industry, have been handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture by legal changes, and we are now in transition, and it will no longer be the same, we will give a certain portion of it through grants and we will give time, and we will bring it to an end within a short period of two years. We're going to help our provinces as Ministry, who want to prepare their land and build an agricultural and animal agriculture-related area in their territory, and we're going to help them build a production model in the way that they can produce more efficient and more industrially. This is another one of our projects that's going to be in service and in action this year. Supporting rural development investments is a project we started. So far, we've completed more than 3,200-percent agricultural-based facilities in Turkey, and we've donated 50% of the investment amount up to $600,000, 32,000 people working. Agriculture is extremely important for industrial integration, because we're setting up processing, packaging, packaging facilities in both plant production and animal production. And we've completed 3,200 facilities. These are active and functioning right now. It's going on. We plan to complete and support another 3,000 facilities by 2015. This goes on and on. We submitted a draft bill to the Council of Ministers yesterday concerning the opening of the Meras into the private sector, which was signed by the Council of Ministers. You know, it was a long-term, 25-year lease, but they weren't allowed to build facilities for livestock, for agriculture, and now we're bringing in an arrangement that allows that. This will soon come to life before the High Council. That way, there will be more efficient, higher levels of use than our mera. In addition, we're bringing in a model of contract production in fruits and vegetables, age fruit and vegetables. We aim to increase quality and standard in production, especially by bringing additional support to those who produce in contractable fruits and vegetables, which are market-valued, export-accessable, and able to operate in the industry. We're predicting a stable increase in quality and high standard production, which is also one of the things that will take place during this year. In Turkey, we developed the production model of agricultural basins. In Turkey, we now know what high efficiency levels of agricultural products can be produced in 30 basins. Now, in the field of fruitism, we've identified Turkey's basins, and we're developing a new support tool that supports the development, higher production of fruits predicted in those areas by bringing special support to these basins. We've decided on this with the Agricultural Support and Guidance Board, which goes back into practice, along with the fruiting basins. We need to...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0011par0111	Mr. Secretary, what are you going to do about the condition of the counterfeit bill-victim farmers? There are very serious casualties. Mr. President, the precious MPs today, we transferred $1.9 billion to the Turkish farmer's pocket on March 5th, so with the old money, we transferred 1.9 quadrillion to the farmer's account. Here, especially diesel, fertilizer, soil analysis, feed plants, dairy premiums and water products are being paid, so the accounts have passed by midnight last night, and our farmers can get them. Of course, by the end of March, there will be grain, beans, tea, nuts, and certified seeds again. In March, we'll still pay $1 billion 85 million at the end of March. So in March, we pay cash as support in support of the Turkish farmer's pocket for only about $3 billion. In April, 268 million, 1 billion, 300 million in May, 1.1 billion in June, so that by June, we will have paid $6 billion of our total support, so that 6 billion of our $7 billion will be in the farmer's pocket by June, so now, instead of paying in installments a year later, instead of the first six months of the year, we've paid 90 percent of the support we predicted, and we've done it for the first time last year, and we've done it last year, and we've done it the year before that year. In the last few years, this way, within the first six months of the year, we have paid 90 percent of our support. Mr. President, we, of course, have a vision of both animal and plant production, vision of 2023. We planned in 2023 to increase Turkey's agricultural revenues to 150 billion dollars if we were to increase Turkey's revenues from the $23 billion in revenues we took in 2002 to $62 billion in 2011, and...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0012par0114	If you can find a farmer to plant a field, Mr. Secretary. We'll get through this with ease. If you can find a farmer to run his tractor. Our agricultural exports are $15.2 billion this year. $15.2 billion in agricultural exports. And we're also planning to raise it to $40 billion. How much for imports? Don't worry, imports are less than that. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have yielded the results of our measures to increase production and efficiency, as well as quality and efficiency. And that's going to come to a much better point in the next process. Again, I'd like to state, the valued lawmakers, that we, you know, started the non-interest loan application as a government, and in this framework...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0013par0122	Who did you give it to? Who did you give it to? We gave it to the manufacturers, the manufacturers. You didn't give it to the manufacturers, you gave it to the pharmacists, you gave it to the people who had nothing to do with production, you gave it to the businessmen. Give us his list, and we'll believe it. During this time, we used about 20 billion Turkish liras last year. Give me his list, and we'll see who gets it. In your time, the farmer's loan rates used in your power were 59 percent. We've reduced them to zero in livestock, reduced them to zero in drip-watering investments, and reduced them to 5 percent in all other loans. His tractor wasn't mortgaged, his field wasn't mortgaged, now everything's mortgaged. Now, the 2012 interest resolution has been re-published.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0014par0130	How did you do it, Mr. Secretary? How did you manage to reduce the number of animals? Explain this, really. We continue to lend interest-free loans to both animal and certified seeds in the production of saplings. You've connected the villagers, the farmers to the limos, congratulations! There will still be very low-level interest payments in our other investments and other loans. Most of these are, again, 50 percent, some 60 percent, some in pencils. In addition, support continues to support loan interest subsidies. We have raised Turkey's certified seed production from 1455,000 tonnes to 635,000 tonnes. Seed exports are a speculative issue, and I'll tell you about it: seed exports increased to 30,000 tons in 2011 when they were 8,000 tons in 2002, dear friends. It's all been work and effort. In 2004, Turkey provided a large portion of the hybrid vegetable from the outside. With our legislation, with our project, Turkey has traveled a great distance in this area, and Turkey has created the world's third largest seed gene bank with a project that we have started and finished. Thus, in this area, Turkey is in a much better place. With both the legislation and the standards of food safety, and the European Union, our consumers now have access to food, and our measures for health and hygiene, as well as the projects that we've implemented on production, the diversification, the quality of production, the agriculture in Turkey will be much better today, at a far better point today, at a far better point, and tomorrow, the vision that we've certainly established, is going to be better than today. I hope we'll all see this together. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0015par0138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Some of our MPs have entered the system for a brief statement, so I'll make a promise in order. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0016par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are being tested at various ministries and institutions. These include the KPSS 70 per cent, the oral exam at 30 per cent. For example, the last time a metal technician was hired was at Soma Electricity Productions and Commerce General Directorate. Friends with 83 points didn't get in, 64 points went in. Also, a friend of mine, a friend of mine, got 73 points, and he didn't get in. Here, we have already seen that there have been distinctions among AKP's people, especially among CHP, MPP, BDP, and other friends who have not been able to enter the examinations recently. This procedure is being performed in all exams. I'll leave it to your conscience. I think you need to be more careful about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0017par0146	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0018par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. I know Turkey's agenda is intense, but I'd like to address a matter I care about, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, Sivas is truly living in a literally snow-chasing state. All the roads of the village are closed in the Kangal, in the Divrik, and in the Imran. They've been calling all over this side for a week. Students in transport can't go to school. In addition to this lack of transportation, there are power cuts. In this day and age, people have no power and no roads, and their livestock in the stables are miserable. Yesterday, a funeral was delivered from Istanbul two days ago. In honour, the funeral is still kept in a coffee shop for two days, and they cannot take it to the village. I request immediate assistance from the government on this matter. We're looking for the governors, and they're desperate because they don't have enough tools or machines.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0019par0153	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0020par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country's most important problem is unemployment and poverty. In this one, its greatest victim is the inner Anatolian region. For the past ten years, the population of the inner Anatolian region has been steadily declining, and people are migrating. The most important reason is that the farmer gives up agriculture, and the production of livestock is finished. The import of animal imports, the import of animal deli products, has been a major blow to animalism. If we give the import money we give to the manufacturers for animals and their products, we'll be able to export animals in a few years. In addition, when it is called agricultural support, agriculture support should be reduced to 1 percent of VAT and OTV in mazotta, medicine, fertilizer. And in this way, I would like to say that the government is expected to work, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0019par0157	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0021par0159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, celebrate the 91st victory anniversary of Artvin County. I wish all our martyrs mercy. I wish to all of the Artvinians that God would never again put them through that pain, those troubles, and again, this is the wrong definition of salvation anniversary. The Turkish nation has been invaded by the enemy, but our nation has also driven the enemy out of his homeland by maintaining its unity with all its strength, protecting its sovereignty, its independence, building its state. This should be celebrated as a day of victory, not a day of salvation. In fact, all of our provinces need to define the issue with words or victory, not this kind of salvation anniversary. We're celebrating all the Artvins from here as the National Party for Action.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0019par0161	Thank you. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0022par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary responded to a five-minute non-responsive conversation for 20 minutes, but he didn't mention any of the farmer's expectations. We've done this, we've done this. There's nothing concrete, really concerned about the farmer that makes the farmer smile right now. Snow crawls on the floor, $1,250, that's $1,250,000 in old money, but at what price is the fertilizer, what's the price of the diesel? The farmer kept the cotton in storage, in case it was worth something. He got a loan from the bank, the interest went up by 10 points, the cotton is counting at the same place. Maybe in India... here's India banning exports, so she's waiting to see if she can get a bonus of three or five cents. But, hopefully, Mr. Secretary will tell the farmer something concrete about the price of fertilizer, about the price of diesel, about whether the farmer will be able to buy them at a cheaper price or at a cheaper price. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What did the farmer see, brother? Tell me about him.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0023par0168	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0024par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have opened three branches in Erzurum, on the grounds or grounds that a citizen eats cheap meat as a Meat Fish Foundation. Of course, when we're doing one thing, we're wondering if we have to put another one in trouble. Because the butchers say that three branches were opened and we were left unemployed. At the price of meat in the departments, we are prepared to sell the meat. Are you planning to go to such construction? Because each of these is people who have collected the responsibility of many people. I wanted to remind you of that.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0023par0172	Thank you. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0025par0175	Mr. Secretary, on January 9, 2012, when the Earth crop office (TMO) announced it was going to release nuts on January 16, 2012, the nut prices were around $8. After this announcement, the number of nuts given to the market was very small, but psychologically the price of nuts has dropped to about $6. In that case, the small grocery store was damaged by the nut manufacturers. Is this decision made by the TMO to protect the nut investors? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0023par0177	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0026par0180	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary did a very successful job, and he looked people in the eye and tried to make the wrongs very right, and he didn't answer any of the questions I asked him, and he didn't answer any of the things I said. Minister, I ask you, didn't you import $5.4 billion in wheat between 2003 and 2011? There's gonna be wheat in this country, and we're gonna be able to leave this $5 billion in this country, our land, our land, our land, don't we? You imported $3.8 billion in soybeans in rice from 2003 to 2011, import $9.9 billion in cotton, import 2.3 billion in sunflowers in this process. We've done this, we've done this. Of course, a child grows ten years old, and if you've gained 10 centimeters in ten years, what reason would it make for you to declare it a victory? (Applause from MHP rows) So, you weren't going to do anything? Were you going to stay where you always lived? I'm telling you, get out of here. You imported Angus, didn't you? What is the logic of this fool?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0027par0185	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Durmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0028par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. I was just waiting for an intervention from the Minister to clarify something very important, which is essentially what our farmers expect. I've filed a written question motion, and it's been a month, Mr. Secretary and Ministry officials are not responding. And now I beg of him here, tens of thousands of farmers with eyes and ears here. We have fake bill victims farmers, the Ministry knows that, and the Ministry knows how many victims they are. These farmers can't go to the field, they can't afford diesel. Of course, those who do the fake billing job professionally and defraud the state should be punished for what they deserve, but the farmers they're victimizing are extremely troubled and expect a solution from the Ministry. We've been following this for months, we're saying, unfortunately, Mr. Secretary hasn't made a statement here. I beg of him, I know that our farmer is following this session, that the Anatolian farmer is following this session, and he's waiting for an answer to that, and I expect an explanation from him.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0029par0192	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0030par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. As I listened to Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I was mistaken as to whether Turkey was telling the story. I say this with all sincerity because we all know that 2 million hectares have been removed from agriculture in our country, and 2.5 million people have been cut off from agriculture, Mr. Secretary. Besides, again, you mentioned the law. You also issued the Agricultural Law in 2006, but in 2007, in 2011, you now owe the farmer $20 billion due to the GDP of 1 per cent domesticity due to the Agricultural Law. Are you planning on paying for this? And as the last question, in Bursa, you know, there was a loss of quality and weight on the table olives, and we talked about it over and over again with the heads of the agricultural chamber. Do you plan to take any steps towards delaying bank loans? We've completely given up on support and other issues. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0031par0199	Thank you, Mr. Irony. We apologize to our friends who entered the system. Our general practice is for 10 people, so it's filled up. My dear friends, we are now on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Congressmans, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc wanted to answer the motions in the oral questions section of the agenda 1, 28, 112, 187, 188, 201, 237, 239, 240, 245, 275, 359, 415, 818, 821, 823, and 824. I'll grant the Deputy Prime Minister's request when it's his turn. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The European Parliament was adopted by the Commission for Women's Rights and Gender Equality on 8 March 2012 in Belgium for the participation of a delegation of members of the Turkish Parliament for Women's Opportunities Commission on Equal Payment for Work. The names of the political party groups, dated 28/3/1990 and announced by the General Assembly to form a delegation under Article 2 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 3620, are submitted to the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There's a resignation notice from the commission, and I'm going to read it: Because of my position as head of the EC PARTY political and legal affairs and my position as a member of the National Defence Commission, I resign my membership as a member of the Human Rights and Review Commission. With all due respect, I do. 29.02.2012 It has been presented to your knowledge. And now I'm going to read and process six separate motions for the opening of parliamentary research in order to identify the discovery of gifted children, to identify problems related to their education, and to provide effective employment for the development of our country: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to ensure the future of our country's strategic importance, the discovery, training, and effective employment of the Supreme Talents, we make it necessary for a parliamentary investigation under the 98th and 105th Amendments of the Constitution. Highly skilled children who are high in their abilities, creatively powerful, with a certain desire to finish what they started, have a high sense of duty, and use their creativity to solve the problems they face are the greatest source of wealth in a country. These children are also the ones who will play the most important role in shaping the country's future if they receive proper and adequate training. In accordance with the country's interests, education and monitoring programs, which are designed to provide effective employment, in line with their ability and capacity, will be offered as a gift to humanity, and will be used for their own benefit by countries and groups who are aware of these values that have developed their policies decades ago, due to the dissonance they will experience in the current system. Although some arrangements have been made for highly gifted children so far, we feel that children of superior talent have not reached the desired level of education and monitoring. The evaluation of distinguished and strategically qualified individuals will benefit the country and all mankind. If it is not evaluated, it is likely that this potential will be transformed into a troubled population with psychological and personality disorders in society. The education of highly skilled countries must have a special place. Because in the context of education-government relations, education of the superior has a more strategic and functional position than any other. However, the superior, a scarce human resource in terms of the country's development potential, creates a difficult and important demographic field for the state to study. Every country must have an indispensable duty to make this education as perfect and as careful as possible. There is no doubt that the ability to provide perfect training for this potential in our country will reveal a great deal of value. To do so, it must first determine the country's reserves, and then address this reserve with all its dimensions for long-term results. According to research, there are estimated to be over 500,000 highly intelligent individuals in our country. That's about 1.5 percent of our population. Some 7,000 of these individuals are able to receive defined training at the Centres for Science and Arts. These centers need legal regulations to organize, develop their programmes, increase their resources and numbers, and institutionalisation of the work, and a thorough and comprehensive research is needed in order to determine what will happen in this arrangement and to determine our forward projections. The research commission, which we consider strategically important for the future of our country, is deemed appropriate for the discovery, training of the gifted, and providing effective employment, and for the immediate transformation of our country's most valuable resource, our country's people, to the value of addition. [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Inconceived]] [[Samsun]] [[Inconceived]] 7) Cemal Yılmaz Demir [[Samsun]] [[Sivas]] [[Paddles]] [[Amasya]] [[Denizli]] [[Denizli]] 13) Ayhan Sagittarius [[Sakarya]] 14) Hasan Ali Çelik [[Sakarya]] 15) Ali Ihsan Yavuz [[Sakarya]] [[Sakarya]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kütahya]] [[Slap]] 20) Efficiency Mountaineer Screams [[Erzurum]] [[Denizli]] [[Denizli]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Karaman]] 25) Saint Sibel Gönul [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Inconceived]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine, train, and contribute to the development of our country, which we believe is necessary for our country to have a more prosperous future, we make it necessary for it to conduct a parliamentary investigation under Articles 98th, 104 and 105th of the Constitution. Children with superior or special skills are children with higher performances than their peers in intelligence, creativity, art, leadership capacity, or academic capacity, defined by field and subject experts. Children with superior and special abilities differ from their peers in some ways from when I was a baby. A study concluded that a baby born with superior intelligence reacts more to auditory and visual stimuli than normal, needs less sleep, and shows facial expressions seen in older children. They are more than 98% of a randomly selected group of their peers. So 2% of the individuals that make up society have that property. Therefore, it is vital that children of superior intellect be noticed early and grow up in a frame that is in line with their abilities. Children of superior and special talent are the greatest source of wealth in a country. Because those children are also the ones who will play the most important role in shaping the country's future if they receive proper and adequate training. Although several attempts have been made by laws against superior and gifted children, practical measures have not been carried out. This should be a structure that defines and defines the policy of our children's detection, education and monitoring systems in a clear way, providing institutional and continuity. Therefore, by Congress, the Constitution is 98. Under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter, it would be appropriate to establish a commission that will handle the detection and education of superior and gifted children in every way. [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Elizipt]] 4) Gökcen Özdoğan Enç [[Antalya]] 5) Abu Bekir Secreter [[Nevşehir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Ahmet Erdal Feralan [[Nevşehir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Fractured]] [[Isparta]] 12) Look at Osman's love [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 14) H. Hami Yıldırım [[Burdur]] [[Nevşehir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Kütahya]] [[İstanbul]] 21) Ahmet Kutalmis Türkesh [[İstanbul]] 22) Ahmet Berat Çonkar [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We provide a parliamentary inquiry in accordance with Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter, in order to ensure that our country has a more prosperous future, highly gifted children become adults to play important roles in the future, to be trained and evaluated for efforts to contribute to the development of our country. A study concluded that a baby born with superior intelligence reacts more to auditory and visual stimuli than normal, needs less sleep, and shows facial expressions seen in older children. They are more than 98% of a randomly selected group of their peers. So 2% of the individuals that make up society have that property. Therefore, it is vital that children of superior intellect be noticed early and grow up in a frame that is in line with their abilities. Children with superior or special skills, creativity, art, leadership capacity, or academic backgrounds learn special skills quickly and easily in various areas, do experiments to test ideas and hypotheses, use science and technical tools, and they are exposed to them. They have a lot of powers to choose wrong and right, and they have a lot of time to grasp and keep in mind, and they have a lot of successes, and they have a high level of ability to criticize; they are children who are defined by field and subject experts. Children with superior and special abilities differ from their peers in some ways from the time they were infants. This should be a structure that defines and defines the policy of our children's detection, education and monitoring systems in a clear way, providing institutional and continuity. Children of superior and special talent are the greatest source of wealth in a country, and those who will play the most important role in shaping the country's future if they get sufficient training. That's why the Constitution is 98 by Congress. Under Articles 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter, it would be appropriate to establish a commission that will handle the detection and education of superior and gifted children in every way. [[Adana]] [[Paddles]] [[İzmir]] 4) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Adana]] 6) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Ankara]] [[Yozgat]] [[Ankara]] 11) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Kayseri]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Kütahya]] [[Samsun]] [[Inconceived]] [[Elizipt]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to determine, educate, and assess new jobs that will contribute to the development of our country's country, which we believe is necessary for our country to have a more prosperous future, we make a parliamentary inquiry in accordance with Article 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. Successful and promising children are children who can manifest a distinct difference and superiority from their peers in understanding, narrative, perception, and evaluation; children who can be described more in the fields of skill, skill, rational intelligence, and leadership than their peers; who can easily comprehend the needs of their own age; in light of knowledge, under the rules of etiquette and education; who can be trained differently in sociology by experts. This change in children who are successful and promising has become accurately evident in the development of the organism, and differences in their peers are easily discernible. A successful and promising child's innate attributes and a different assessment as part of positive discrimination will result in more results, faster and more guaranteeful results than rigging a child with education and knowledge. As it will play a major role in the growth of a useful generation to its country and its nation, it will set an example for those who follow it, and will contribute to the high level of competitive success. This study, which will give the development of education and teaching an important step in identifying and creating a model model of children who are promising a successful future, would be an important step for the emergence of many ore of some 75 million of our populations. History, culture, social structure and economies have seen the emergence of rulers who will guide the world, leaders who shed light on the age over and over again. Today, the sons of the land that has a reputation in the world belong to the world. Although there are many legal arrangements and initiatives being made, a study that will be model and model has not yet been developed and created. As it turns out, there is a need for new detection and training within an institutional structure. The fact that the discovery of successful and promising children can't be fully achieved as a result of the goal is a great gain, it is almost as if it is the protection of loss. The detection, education and monitoring policies of successful and promising children must be determined and carried out within a sustainable structure. Therefore, by Parliament, the Constitution is 98. The Civil Charter is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, a commission will be established that will handle the detection and education of successful and promising children. [[Yalova]] 2) Cigdem Münevver Ökten [[Mersin]] [[Bolu]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Ardahan]] 6) Mehmet Doğan Kubat [[İstanbul]] [[Sivas]] [[Sinop]] [[Mersin]] 10) H. Hami Yıldırım [[Burdur]] 11) Ahmet Berat Çonkar [[İstanbul]] [[Denizli]] [[Malatya]] [[Kırşehir]] 15) Mohamed Murtaza Kığ [[Adıyaman]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Fatih Han Ünal [[Army]] 20) Zeynep Admirable [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Artvin]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mine Leuk White [[Diyarbakır]] [[Zonguldak]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th to investigate what needs to be done in order to ensure that children with superior intelligence and ability, with a higher level of learning than their peers, can receive an early education in order to improve the benefits of intelligent/talented children to society. The 104th Amendment of the Grand National Charter (TBMM). And 105. I'd like to make it necessary for Parliamentary Investigation to be opened. Experts, as it is known, are children with greater mental capacity in terms of understanding, understanding, understanding, and intuition of relationships between events, and understanding, especially the ability to learn faster and keep what they learn in mind for a longer period of time. The highly skilled are individuals who have a skill or a few areas, who have superior accomplishments. These individuals can be highly successful in music, sports, art, or any other field. Because of their above - mentioned qualities, the education and education of these children and so on, education models have to be different. Because if children who have the ability to learn faster than their peers and have more talent than they do are brought up with the same educational curriculum and teaching techniques, after a while, mental development will be regressed. Therefore, teaching models, materials, books, and resources to apply to these children must also be different. In our country, the proportion of children with superior intelligence and talent is believed to be around 2.5% and 33% in parallel to the rate on Earth. However, there are many shortages of education among these children, as the public sees from the frequent debates. First of all, since we are not yet at the desired levels of pre-school education in our country, there is difficulty in finding out whether these children are superior or gifted. It is also difficult to have an opinion on the level of intelligence because children do not meet the school until they are seven years old. Therefore, it is important to investigate what is necessary for the early detection of the highly skilled children in our country and thus to improve the benefits of the community through their proper education. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the need for a parliamentary investigation in accordance with Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution regarding the detection of children and students and the finding of problems related to their education and the finding of solutions. In other words, gifted children have always been treated differently in their education systems. In our educational system, such children's education is also discussed in terms of special education. Because a gifted child is a child who has the potential to perform or perform higher in one or more areas compared to children of his own age, who needs social and emotional support from family, community and education. The main problem in our country arises at the point of the detection and training of these children. Much depends on the observations and evaluations of parents and teachers. Especially when parents do not have enough knowledge of these matters, it makes it difficult to identify children who need to be identified before school. In our country today, there is little to say that there are no special programs or schools for these children during the pre-school period. Therefore, the education of children and students with superior skills is a very new area in our country. The Science Centres under the Ministry of National Education were founded to meet this need. The internal audit report published by the Ministry of National Education shows that education in this area has significant problems. Some problems may be listed as follows, considering the problems mentioned in this report: 90% of the buildings of science and art centers are not designed for the education of highly skilled individuals. According to the 2009 budget, 999 per thousand of the budget for private education was transferred to sub-intellect groups, while only a thousandths of it was transferred to the upper intelligence groups. Teachers who serve in science and art centers do not have the necessary equipment for training such children. In our country, there is no activity for the recognition and education of highly gifted children and students in the pre-school era. - Diagnostics are out of date. - Although the number of highly skilled students is generally estimated to be 2% of the total number of students, in our country, there are only a thousand-to-one students. So thousands of highly skilled students are waiting to be discovered. - Special regulations for the employment of highly skilled individuals have not been made. We believe that, given some of the issues mentioned above, such important matters should be discussed within the scope of Parliamentary Research. The commission of our council will allow our country to use its brain power at its highest level. It will contribute greatly to the development of our country. [[Yalova]] 2) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] 7) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Edirne]] [[Sakarya]] 10) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 15) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 18) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Sinop]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] 23) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a statement saying that some members of parliament will be allowed to read separately and submit to your votes: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The number of lawmakers listed under their names has been approved at a meeting dated 22/02/2012 of the Presidential Court. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. "Artvin MP Israel Barracks 31 days from 27/01/2012 due to her illness," I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. "Chasliurfa MP İbrahim Binici, 21 days from 07/02/2012 due to his illness," I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. "Muğla MP Ömer Süha Aldan, 15 days from 07/02/2012 due to his illness," I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. "Manisa MP Hasan Ören, 12 days from 08/02/2012 due to his illness," I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully submit that Act 2/209 shall be taken directly into the agenda of the General Assembly under Article 37 of the Civil Code. As the bidder, Mr. Sezgin Tanrıkulu is an Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0032par0554	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Sir, even though the proposal of the law is referred to as the Law Proposal for Changes in the Turkish Penal Code, it is in Turkish: the statute of limitations. In December, our friends and I made this offer, which has been talked about and has long occupied the public's agenda. Forty-five days have passed, and now we have raised the agenda in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code at the right time. Dear friends, unsolved murders, torture and abuse of children are crimes that should be considered a crime against humanity all over the world and Turkey. Our recent history also has a very intense history of unsolved murders, loss and torture and sexual abuse of children. That's why we have to offer this bill. We intended to make exceptions to these crimes, in terms of the penal statute's statute of limitations in Article 66, and again the statute of limitations in Article 68 of the Penal Code. I'd like to say three things about it today: Today, Mr. Speaker has made a statement and stated that as of December 20, 2011, our proposal has been transferred to the commissions. I wouldn't expect the Speaker to use a statement like that. Yes, our proposal has been transferred to the commissions, but our very experienced Speaker knows that if this offer doesn't prioritize, it won't be discussed until the end of the semester. Therefore, what we expect from the Speaker of Parliament is that if this General Assembly does not make a decision today about this proposal, the Council of Counsellors will convene and bring it here as a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors. In fact, that's the way he should talk. Our Minister of Culture gave the second speech. Our Minister of Culture made the correct statement on this issue yesterday, and its contents were correct, but the result was not a sound speech. As our legislature, we can't expect anything from the judiciary. We can't leave the statute of limitations on unsolved murders on the conscience of the judiciary. Therefore, this Parliament must make this arrangement. Therefore, my call to Mr. Minister of Culture should be from here to ensure that the government takes a position on this bill. In my opinion, our Secretary of State gave a third and final speech. The Minister of State used the following phrases yesterday regarding this issue, referring to the Sivas case, saying the same thing: it would not be right for both parties to expire. He said, "It would not be right for this case to expire." What do both sides mean in this case? What do the two sides in the Sivas case mean? There's one side to this case, and it's those who committed crimes against humanity.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0033par0563	Bravo.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0032par0564	Other than that, this case has nothing to do with it, and there are victims. Therefore, I condemn, condemn, and condemn, the tendency to justify those who have committed crimes against humanity by calling them two parties, and this approach and understanding thus far has prevented the perpetrators of these crimes from being brought to trial. (CHP turns to applause) Therefore, this approach is not right. This case has no two sides to the Sivas case, there is only one side to the Sivas case, and it is those who have committed crimes against humanity. If you really have any will in terms of unsolved murders, losses, torture, our proposal for the law is here. You passed the MIT law here overnight. No one can say that the law is against the law. Just as you said in that arrangement, and if you have put a clause in it, there is also a clause here today, in terms of ongoing investigations, in terms of unopened investigations, in which there is no action, in the past, and in which there is nothing. So I ask the General Assembly not to raise your hand in regard to these crimes against humanity after a moment, nor to go into history like this. Let's make exceptions to Article 66 of the penal code, Article 68 of the statute of limitations, and free Turkey from this disgrace, all of us together. Let's give a message to society on March 8th, to the mothers not only by the law of violence against the woman, but also by the mothers who weep and seek the grave of their children, and let's get this law on the general council today and free Turkey from a great shame. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0034par0567	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Ankara MP Emine Gültur Tarhan... Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0035par0571	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I find it helpful to remind you of our proposal to change the Turkish Penal Code, which is not on the agenda. We want no statute of limitations on torture, qualified manslaughter, deliberate manslaughter, child sexual abuse, drug trafficking crimes that have been aggravated by torture and consequences. In Article 66 of the Turkish Penal Code, in the case of crimes against the nation and the state abroad, genocide does not expire in Article 76, genocide in Article 77, crimes against humanity and crimes against humanity in the third act of Article 78, and in order to commit crimes against humanity, you know that. There is also a provision in the Military Penal Code. Similar provisions are not accepted in the German Penal Code for genocide and murder, in the Italian Penal Code, in Austria, or even in English common law for all crimes. The reason for this is that there are some crimes that can have lasting influence on individuals and society. What you call facing these things is actually, no matter how much time passes, it's what's called making those responsible can be judged, and that's what's called confrontation. Look, in a case of tortures launched after September 12, 1980, Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has issued an invalid decision dated 12/2/2012, where the European Court of Human Rights has noted that the right to live in accordance with its place in our internal law and the right to which public officials are perpetrators cannot be granted a statute of limitations on torture and abuse, and cannot be pardoned in any way. It is in the opinion of Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and has pointed out that the courts should end the statute of limitations on such charges in a reasonable amount of time when they are on trial. Our proposal is in harmony with European law and practice, but in harmony with the true human conscience. There are some crimes in society that create infinitive memories, which cause involuntary wounds to the conscience -- for example, the sexual abuse of young children, especially incest -- victims can only face these crimes years later, and the victims can only find the strength to fight the executioners that they fear as children when they become adults, but the apocalypse is filled with the statute of limitations. So let's say you didn't know what was waiting in the dark corners of the ward for the children you put in the same place as the criminals in Posanti Prison, and let's say you didn't predict that. Is there any guarantee that what happened to these children will one day be covered by a timeout cover? Actually, we need to discuss this. These children have already been subjected to this kind of treatment for seven months, and the Minister of Justice knew it. The Minister of Justice has appointed an inspector after the press and the Republican People's Party MPs have seized the case. But, look, there's a case against one of these kids for aggravated assault, this case is being filed. In spite of this case, the warden and vice principal of that prison were promoted. And I heard that yesterday, in connection with the Sivas massacre, the Minister of Culture came out and complained about the statute of limitations. Your ministers have begun to say that late justice is not justice. They started complaining that the trial was slow. I've lost count. How many judicial reforms are you doing now? There hasn't been any judicial reform, you're doing another judicial reform. Well, if you're complaining about the statute of limitations, why don't you take it down? So, why is there nothing on the justice front that's changed, even though you've been running justice for ten years? So, why is it that the state that turned into a party state can become a hawk in cases that make it look good, but the kind of cases that force itself suddenly become pigeons? The DNA of a defendant who died of natural causes in a trial that lasted a lifetime under the prosecutor's nose in Sivas, is being matched to his wife's DNA, friends, by an unprecedented revolution in the criminal history of the world. Can you imagine? Look, is this a 20-year statute of limitations, gentlemen, AKP people? Well, hasn't half of that been in your power, half the statute of limitations? Where were you when the Hezbollah villains disappeared with a hocus-pocus? Aren't you the ones who promised you wouldn't kidnap the Hezbollah villains? Where are they? Did you find them? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Show me what you got, fellas. We're waiting for backup on the removal of the statute of limitations.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0036par0583	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Congressmans, I submit to you the motion issued under Article 37 of the Civil Code: those who accept... those who do not accept...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0037par0585	Is there enough to decide, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit01spe0036par0586	If you don't want it, I have to say it's accepted. Unacceptable. Now, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0036par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 06/03/2012 on Tuesday. The drafting of the 181 and 180 rows, which were distributed under pressure, would not have been 48 hours before the agenda's "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" was taken to the 2nd and 3rd places, and the order of other tasks was determined according to this. On Tuesday (March 06), March 2012, 10/1777, 10/178, 10/179, 10/180 and 10/1811 are the main parliamentary research for the Council, combined with 10/03/2012, which was read earlier on Tuesday (now) in the same issue as the Council's Admissions for Successful and Honourable Children's Appliance and Education. In Tuesday's merger of 06/03/2012, In Thursday's Union of 08/03/2012, 181 rows of legislation continue to work until the talks are finalised. The Charter 91 of Bills 181 and 180. It is recommended to be discussed as the Basic Law and to have its sections in the accompanying ruler. Anybody want a word on the suggestion? Since you don't, I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... The recommendation of the Council of Counsellors has been accepted. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. Congressmans, I've been reading the oral questions that Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc, as stated in the section of the examinations, wishes to answer together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. 14/7/2011 The HESESTs made at Ardahan Posof (Ardahan Posof) are seriously damaging nature. Complaints are coming in from our citizens. The control of the production of HES (HES) must be done more frequently and in a manner that involves deterrent punishments, and piles of rubble are left just like that. The stream left for life water will lead to swamps before and after years. 1- The construction of the Ardahan Posof (HES) projects, which started and most of them completed, is now randomly used in construction, and the water left for life water is not enough, so the streams are known to dry in time. Will the control of these places be made with stricter and more deterrent punishments? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of Customs and Trade Mr. Hayati Printer. 26/7/2011 It is imperative that the border crossings in Ardahan Posof and Çil be immediately opened with full-duty staffs, that the customs process be performed through the door, and that those who want to make a day-to-day trade should be delivered with a certain amount of merchandise. 1- Two Customs doors from Ardahan to Georgia and Armenia must be opened immediately, customs procedures must be processed at the door. When will the doors open? 2- Will you be allowed to bring a certain amount of diesel from the border gates? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 10.10.2011 What's the amount of help gathered in the organization of the Ministry of Religious Affairs to help Somalia? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 07.10.2011 On Friday (August 26, 2011), Friday (August 26, 2011) a declaration was announced by religious officials of some mosques in Chile district that "Mr. Prime Minister will arrive and will be carried to the venue by city buses." The Prime Minister gave political speeches and spoke against opposition parties to the congregation going to the ceremony area. Isn't that the way mosques are used to politics? It was also searched by security forces in the congregation that entered the Chilean central mosque for Friday prayer. Besides, Mr. Prime Minister didn't pray Friday at this mosque. Is it possible that the Prime Minister will continue to perform Friday prayer in mosques, where he may or may not pray, to be disturbed by the search of the mosque community? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 16.10.2011 1) Why have dollars, euros and gold been constantly increasing in recent days? 2) What measures will you take as a government in the face of this increase? 24.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light Regarding the recent politicalisation of the TRT, especially in recent years, it has led our citizens to split up into groups and claims that their ratings have dropped; 1) What is the total number of employees still working at the headquarters and rural agencies of the TRT General Directorate? How much of these personnel were employed during the AKP administration? How many employees have retired during the same period? 2) How has the average monitoring rate of TRT channels from 2002-2011 changed? Is it true that their ratings are getting lower and lower? 3) How is the total publication period for political parties in 2002-2011 distributed according to years and political parties? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be addressed to the Prime Minister and answered verbally by the Prime Minister. 20.10.2011 At the rally in Eskişehir before the General Elections, you announced that Eskişehir would become the Turkish World Cultural Capital. Although the elections have been over so long, no serious initiative has been seen. It's about to be in this frame; 1) If Eskişehir really is the Turkish World Cultural Capital of 2013, what will its legal basis be? 2) Is there a law or regulation study on the subject? 3) When will such a decision be made? 4) Will any investments be made in Eskişehir for events to take place? 5) Will there be any partnership with the elected municipalities as representatives of the city for activities or investments? 6) Will the opinion of elected representatives of the city be received? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10.2011 On October 23, 2011, what are the names and addresses of buildings that were fatally damaged from the structures of the Head of Religious Affairs, such as the Koran School and mosque in the Van-Ercish earthquake? What are the names and last names of those who died and were injured around here? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10.2011 How many people died and were injured in the Arvasi Koran School during the Van Ercish earthquake on October 23, 2011? What is the date of this Koran School's opening date for education and teaching? Is it a Recitation in which there is a Recitation (i.e. the Quran)? Is there anyone in the Central Redstone Koran School who died and was injured? What are their names if they have one? What's the opening date for this course? Is it the boarding Koran? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 25.10.2011 On October 23, 2011, what are the dates of the Koran Schools and mosques that were damaged in the Van-Erish earthquake? Have the openings of these structures been called an earthquake-resistant condition? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I move that my following question be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Question: What are the Foundation properties that have been handed over to minorities by changes in the laws of the Foundations? Are there any other mobiles that continue to process the cycles? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Yours truly. Our citizens, known in public as the "defense," have been unable to pay their debts in exchange for a loan from banks. 1. Do you have any work for our foreign currency citizens who are unable to pay their loans due to the rising foreign currency prices? 2. Are you planning on doing a study on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Through my following questions, I would like to request an oral answer by the Prime Minister. 07. 12. 2011 Between 2007-2011, how much advertising was paid per year for the Sabah-Atv Group, the Yan daily, Akit, New Dawn, Zaman and Star newspapers? Each one is shown separately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Yours truly. Instead of securing resources, the government is going to the construction and hand-off model for repairs and restoration of foundations and cultural assets. 1. Is that true? If that's true, how many foundations and cultural assets have been rented in this way so far? 2. What is the distribution of these beings according to the provinces? Is it possible that this system could damage the assets of the foundation and culture? 3. At what intervals are the audits conducted by which institution? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Yours truly. It is important for our history to protect the foundation's works and move safely to future generations. 1) Is there a piece of our foundation that has been stolen in recent years? If so, which of our provinces has been stolen? 2) What studies have been conducted by the anti-trafficking agency within your administration? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Yours truly. The General Directorate of Foundations grants scholarships to elementary school and secondary school students who are not financially qualified. 1) In this scope, how many of our students were granted scholarships in 2010 and 2011? 2) In what way does the distribution of our students according to the provinces take place? 3) How many of our students in Kahramanmarash have been granted these scholarships? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Yours truly. Our child in need without social security is under the obligation of the General Directorate of Foundations. 1) In the past three years, how many people have been tied up? What is the distribution of these individuals according to our provinces? 2) How many people from Kahramanmarash have been given their allowance? To answer verbal question motions, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0038par0170	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. I'll answer verbal question motions in order. In the first place, Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/15) MP Ardahan, is the answer to the question motion of Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/15): The Electric Market Act 4628 on the question motion and it has been warned that it will not allow naturalisation of the stream, and that the agreement signed under the framework of the Agreement on Water Rights Against the Law shall not be allowed to act on its naturalisation. Of course, the water needed for life is determined by the City Department of Environment and Urbanism. Surveillance and control activities, which include ongoing hydropower plants throughout the province, are being conducted monthly by relevant institutions, and criminal procedures are also implemented in negative situations. Ardahan MP Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/75) responds to Mr. Ensar Öğüt (6/75): Posof Türkgözü Black Hudut Gate is already active from Ardahan (Ardahan) to Georgia. Although the topic of opening the Crazy-Aktaş-Kashtas-Kast Gate between Georgia and Georgia has been on the agenda since 1995 and the construction of roads and customs facilities on the Turkish side has been completed and has been ready for service as of 1995, it has not been possible until now because of the delay of construction of 36km of the customs facilities on the Georgia side. However, the Georgian side began construction of the Black Border Gate in Kars. In mid-2011, the construction of the facilities was completed and ready for operation. It has also been learned that the road that was built as an alternative to the current path has been completed and has entered the service as a result of previous problems. On the other hand, studies on the reconstruction of Crazy-Aktas Black Border Gate with the do-and-do model are being carried out within our Ministry. In this framework, the Turkish Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges, which operates our other black border doors with a make-and-run model, has been offered to Customs and Tourism Enterprises, which has been launched by the company. In addition, the process of publicisation has come to an end for expanding the existing customs area that has become unusable. In this framework, private property transports have been publicized, and the costs have been sent to Ardahan Governorate by Customs and Tourism Enterprises Trade Corporation and distributed to rights owners. For the two parcels of the treasury, the Ministry of Finance has written an allocation to the National Real Estate Directorate. Following the completion of publicisation efforts, project work will begin. Construction activities are scheduled to be launched in 2012, after completion. On the other hand, we do not have a direct door to Armenia within Ardahan province. In addition, the work and operations of the country's current border doors are being carried out by our State Department. In addition to the Council of Ministers' Decision 2009/15481 Articles of Customs Act No. 4458, the decision on the implementation of some Articles of the Customs Law was granted to the fuels found in every vehicle, motorcycles and private containers in the standard warehouses in Turkey's customs area; and in Article 96, it was granted a provision of 550 litres of fuel available in motor commercial vehicles and private containers available in standard containers, including truck trucks and tankers, including 15 tonnes [15 tonnes [15 tonnes] [15 tonnes] [15 tonnes] [15 kg kg] [15 kg] [15 kg] [15 kg]] [15 kg] [15 litre] [15 litre] [4 litre] [4 litre]] of oil] and tankers. The amount of fuel that exceeds these limits is not possible. The answer to the question motion of Mr. Ihsan Ozkes (6/205) of İstanbul MP Ihsan Ozkes (6/205) was raised by our President of the Diyanet Affairs for Somalia on Friday (August 5th 2011) as a result of the campaign for aid to Africa, 126,957,784,38 Turkish Lira; 1,680,647,91 US dollars and 9.408,987,24 euros. Istanbul MP Ihsan Özkesin (6/328) answers to the question motion: There are also necessary measures in the election process, which are not allowed to carry political significance in mosques and in places where the services of mosques are considered by the Ministry of Religious Affairs. Also, as alleged, an announcement was not made on 26 August 2011 by any official at any mosque. An answer to Mr. Ali Halaman (6/329)'s question motion is: Recently, Turkish lira has lost some value along with other developing countries' currencies. As the most important reason for the loss of value, the global risk appetite for some countries in the European region shows increased concerns about the country's debt and decline in its prospects for growth. Greece's losses of value, which began with problems in public debt, have declined a bit after receiving financial assistance from the European Union, but have increased again after Greece's unwillingness for fiscal discipline and political developments. On the other hand, the expectations of Spain and Italy, which have a much higher stockpile of nominal debt, have increased the unrest in the markets. The country's debt costs have risen to record levels because of increased debt costs and financial aid and implementation of measures, especially because Germany and France have had a disagreement over the steps to take and the European Union's relevant decision-making bodies have been rather slow with expectations. On the other hand, the expectations of countries providing funding for financial aid that may soon start to suffer financial difficulties and that their credit grades may be reduced, as a result of which the debt costs of these countries may increase, have increased the demand for US dollars. As a reflection of these developments, the loss of value in almost all currency rates compared to US dollars has resulted in a decrease in the appetite for risk taking and investing. Turkish lira, an important part of global markets, has lost value, as has all other developing countries' currency, while the loss of value has been less than many countries' currency. The Turkish Central Bank of Turkey is taking the necessary measures for the country's foreign currency market to work effectively, knowing that financial stability is one of the preconditions for price stability. In this direction, he has taken supply and demand-directional measures in foreign exchange markets to prevent excessive activity in the markets and to ensure fluidity in the foreign currency market. In this framework, the Central Bank has taken the following measures concerning foreign exchange markets: On July 25, 2011, he stopped the exchange tenders. As of August 5, 2011, he began his foreign currency supply through foreign currency tenders, in line with daily market improvements. The Central Bank, which is valid on 9 August 2011, reduced debt rates in foreign terms from 5.5 per cent to 4.5 per cent for the US dollar, from 6.5 per cent for the euro to 5.5 per cent for the euro. Starting on October 5, 2011, he began supplying more foreign currency liquidities to the market through large foreign exchange tenders in the days needed. On 18 October 2011, U.S. dollar liquidity was introduced directly through foreign currency intervention. Starting on 10 November 2011, foreign exchange markets were re-established to mediate foreign exchange markets and effective markets to contribute to increased the flow of foreign currency liquidity. The answer to Eskişehir MP Kazim Kurt (6/395)'s question motion is: As it is known, Turkish-speaking Presidents of State of Turkish Language in İstanbul on 16 September 2010, the 10th Summit Assembly of Turkish Culture and Arts Joint Management (TÜRKSOY) proposed that it be declared to be the Turkish Capital of Culture of Astana in 2012. As part of the June 12, 2011 parliamentary elections, our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan addressed the Eskişehir people in the Odunpazarı district on 28 May 2011 and said that Eskişehir would be the Turkish World Cultural Capital in 2013, that our cultural wealth would be introduced to the world, that all relevant organizations would be activated, and that Eskişehir would host hundreds of cultural programmes from the entire Turkish world, so that the people of the Turkish world would embrace each other in Eskişehir. On September 20/21, 2011, Turkish Ministers of Culture of Turkish Language Language Language Cultures held in Astana, Kazakhstan's capital city, and at the 29th Period Permanent Council Meeting, Turkey's city of Eskişehir was scheduled to be proposed to the Turkish Council for the declaration of Turkish World Cultural Capital in 2013. Then, at the 1st Summit Meeting of the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries Co-operation in Almati, Kazakhstan, on 21 October 2011, the proposal to declare the Turkish Cultural Capital of 2013 was decided to be supported. In parallel with these developments, preparations for the draft bill to guide studies on the construction of Eskişehir (Eskişehir) as the 2013 Turkish Capital of Culture are under way, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly is recently scheduled to be on the agenda. İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkesin (6/403) has answered the question motion: 29 mosques in the Diyanet Business Presidency have been damaged in the earthquake that occurred on 23 October 2011 in Ercish district of Van Nahin. The names and addresses of mosques damaged in Erciş earthquake: Kara Yusuf Pasha Mosque, Van Erciş district centre; Park Ulu Camisi, Salihiye neighbourhood; Salihiye Camisi, Salihiye neighbourhood; Çakttepe Camisi, Çaktaktepe village; Körene neighborhood Camisi, Körene neighbourhood; Van Road Mosque, Van Road, Van Road neighbourhood; Central Industrial Mosque, Camisi, Camisi, Camiebibibiz neighbourhoods; Sulu Camisi, Yeşı, Yeşeova neighbourhood; Çelebinapüsısı, Çe Camisi, Çeşaşı, Çeşlı, Çeşlı, Çeşaşı, Camı, Camışı, Camısı, Camısışışı, Camışışı, Camı, Camısı, Camışısısısışışışı, Cape Camı, Cape Camısışüsı, Cape Kapı, Kapı, Cape Camı, Kapı, Cape Camı, Cape Camışeşeşeşı, Cape Camı, Cape Camesi, Cape Camı, Cape Camışışışı, Cape Camışışışışışışeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşı, Kapeşeşı, Kapeşeşı, Kapeşeşeşeşı; Kapeşı, Kapı; Kapeşeşeşı, Cape Camesi; Şeşı, Kapeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşı, Kapeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşı; Şeşeşeşeşeşeşeşı, Kapeşı, Camesi; Kapeşeşeşeşeşı, Kapeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşeşı, Camesi; Şeşeşeşeşeşı, Camesi; Camesi; Camesi; Camesi; Şeşeşı İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkesin (6/404) answers to the question motion: 27 students were injured and 15 students were killed in the Arvasi Kuran course during the 23 October 2011 Van Ercish earthquake. The Van Central Redstones Koran course does not include deaths or injuries. For all those who died on this occasion, we ask God's mercy. İstanbul MP Ihsan Özkesin (6/409) answers to question motion: Twenty-nine mosques and eight Quran courses were damaged in the earthquake disaster in Ercish district of Van Province on 23 October 2011. The issue of earthquake-resistant structures in the provinces and counties in the provinces and districts is conducted by these institutions, as it is in charge of environmental and urban administrations and municipal municipalities under Article 3194. ==History==The construction of mosques and Koran courses that were damaged in the earthquake disaster on 23 October 2011 were: Kara Yusuf Pasha Mosque 1974, Park Grand Mosque 95, Salihiye Mosque 98 - 1998, I mean - 1980 - The Çaklite Camisi 1985, Kürene neighborhood Central Mosque 1955, Van Road Mosque 2004, Central Industrial Mosque 1993, Sulu Mosque 1986, Chelebibanian Central Mosque 1950, Upper China 1980, Lakeağzi 2008, Bahtelievler 1979, Upper Lighting 1980, Kızen Camisi 1998, Mureen Camisi 1955, Van Road Mosque 2004, Central Industry Mosque 1993, Sulu Mosque 1986, Camisi (1998), Salhita Camıtııııııııtıııı Al Camıtıtıda Camı, 1998, Şa Camıtıda Camisi (1995, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1999, 1998, 1998. The construction date of the Upper Mosque of Keklikova is unknown. Pay Village Mosque 86, Tekeveler District Mosque 74, Upper Latifiye Mosque 77, Grass Village Mosque 77. Koran courses and construction dates: Hazreti Osman Mosque Koran Kursu 2010, Bayramlı village Koran Qur'an Qur'an Kursu 2009, Park Koran Qur'an Kursu 95, Muftülik Koran Kurdu 97, Koran Qur'an Qur'an Kursu 2009, Van Yol'an Koran Kursu 2003, Haydarbey neighborhood Yeni Mosque'an Koran Koran Koran Kursu 2008, Arvasi Male Koran Koran Koran Koran Kursu 1997. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu of Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoglu (6/595) answered his motion: There is no study conducted by Banking Editing and Control Agency for citizens who are unable to pay loans in the face of rising foreign currency prices. Mr. Kamer Yüçük (6/675) is our answer to the main question motion that Mr. Prime Minister (6/675) has been submitted to: According to the accounting regulations of public institutions that organise accounting transactions under general administration, there is no account code or classification titled "Reclamation fee" in the question. Thus, such a fee does not seem possible to separate for public institutions or service servers, but it also includes different payments, including 322.3, where advertising costs can be considered as a form of payment in accounting accounts. 5. 4. One-coded ads and 322.3. 6. 2. There are 1-coded introductions, hospitality, ceremony, fair, organizational costs accounts. According to these accounts, an ads for institutions and local administrations have been paid by 127 million 742,454,95 Turkish liras in 2007, 136 million 062, 281.99 Turkish liras in 2008, 124 million 644, 651.12 Turkish liras in 2009, 148 million 945, 738.56 Turkish liras in 2010, and 141 million 899,827.32 Turkish liras in 2011. Again, the introduction, ceremony, fair, event costs of 145 million 51, 005,23 liras, 202 million 258, 123,86 Turkish liras in 2008, 179 million 446, 848,28 Turkish liras in 2009, 218 million 490, 892.50 Turkish liras in 2010, and 215 million 059, 373,03 Turkish liras in 2011. The answer to the question motion asked verbally by Kütahya MP Alim Izwar (6/347) is: As of today, a total of 7,046 personnel are employed in our General Directorate of Radio-Television of Turkey, 6,211, and 835 in the contract status. A total of 1,333 employees were appointed during the EC PARTY Governments, with the results of the Public Staff Selection Exam, with the application of a court order, the victim's next of kin and so forth, and 2,836 retired. The ratings of TRT 1's entire-day monitoring rate remained constant from 2008 to 2010, but an increasing acceleration of the success graph increased the ratings of the TRT 1 channel with successful productions in February, especially in the A/B socioeconomic status of higher people in the group compared to the 2011 prime time average. TRT 1 is the most watched channel in TRT (TRT) through its own channels, and TRT Music channel continues to be the most watched music channel in our country -- between 8:00 and 11:00 p.m., the most watched music channel in our country, the TRT News channel, the most watched news channel in our country all day long, if it is TRT Boy channel, both the entire day and prime timetime channel. Regarding the broadcast times of political parties: While representations in Turkey's Grand National Assembly are taken into account, all political party representatives and members of the government are included in the TRT news bulletin and programmes, as well as the news value. The answer to the main question motion of Mr. Reşat Tepul. (6/462) is: Under the temporary 7th Article of the Law on Foundations 5737, 1,410 of non-results have been applied for extradition to the foundations of the foundation, and the Council of Foundations has decided on the basis of only 181 non-results. Our answers to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's 6/1104 question motion are: Foundation cultural assets are one of the most historically and culturally important places. It is one of the main tasks of the General Directorate of Foundations that these beings have been brought to the most healthy living and moving from the past to future generations. It is a priority to prevent them from being destroyed because of dysfunction and to be treated as quickly as possible and to be maintained by proper repairs and functions. It is clear that these interventions and businesses will cost a very high price, and with limited resources, it is not possible to restore all the assets of the foundation's cultural presence. Therefore, a long-term rental model for restoration or repair is used as a way to preserve and obtain revenues from those who are also flowing without public resources. They do not move for such a purpose, but they are assessed as being tendered directly as part of the regulation of the Restitution or Restitution of Foundation Cultural Beings, prepared under Article 77 of Foundations Law 5737, or under protocol. The restoration process in the restoration of contracts or protocols signed in this system is the same as the restoration of administrative facilities. There is no difference in the process when both the project is approved by management and accepts the approval phases of the Council for the Protection of Cultural Beings, and the construction control of the site during restoration is carried out by the General Directorate of Foundations technicians. Thus, there is no different situation in such repairs that will cause damage to the foundations of cultural assets compared to those made by administrative means. Harmful or unauthorized interventions may be carried out in contract and protocols during the restoration or business phase, and are supervised at certain times by control officials appointed by the Foundation's General Directorate, and sanctions that reach the dissolution of the contract or protocol are implemented when it is detected. Controls in both restoration and the management process are conducted by the General Directorate of the Foundations. From 2003 to today, 181 foundation cultural assets have been decided by the General Directorate of the Foundations to evaluate the move, and 115 foundation cultural assets have been rented as part of this model. The distribution of 115 foundations rented in terms of restoration is as follows: Adana 2 real estate; Ankara 2, Antalya 2, Burdur 2, Balıkesir 2, Çanakkale 1, Bitlis 1, Bursa 2, Diyarbakır 1, Edirne 1, Gaziantep 3, Hatay 4, İstanbul 55 real estates - 34 on the side of the European Bank; 21-Makoeli 1, İzmir 16, Manisa 1, Kastamon 2, Konya 5, Aksaray 4, Kütahya 4, 1, Afütahya 1, 1, 1, Afon 1, 2* Siz 1, 1, 2* Süzüzüzüzüzüzüp 4, İstanbul 55 in the province of Turkey. Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu of Kahramanmarash has been asked to ask him (6/1107): In 2002, an Anti-Trafficking Bureau was formed under the head of the Ministry of Culture and Records of the Foundation for the purposes of the announcements and follow-up of the stolen artifacts. The announcements and follow-ups were previously made through the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, while they were launched directly by the General Directorate of Foundations. The announcements are made in places such as police and intelligence units, coast guard, INTERPOL, customs, museums, foreign diplomatic missions, governorships, relevant media. It is also announced in e-mail as well as in regular postal correspondence, and is published on the website of the General Directorate of Foundations with inventory receipts. Auctions abroad and abroad are constantly monitored via the Internet by the Anti-Trafficking Bureau. When an artefact is discovered, it is announced and if it is a wanted piece, it is immediately interfered and confiscated through ITERPOL. Between 2002-2010, the stolen artifacts were seized at 667, domestically and abroad. 27 thefts took place in 2011 and reported thefts of 60 stolen artifacts. Our answers to Mr. Mesut Dedeoglu's 6/1109 question motion: According to the General Directorate of the Foundations 2010-2011, 10,000 primary education and secondary education students were granted scholarships at the National Ministry of Education in the school year. In this framework, a total of 134 students took advantage of this scholarship in the 2010-2011 school year in the province of Kahramanmarash. The distribution of our students who have been granted scholarships to our General Directorate is as follows: Adana 250 - student quotas: Mersin 160, Osmaniye 88, Ankara 500, Bolu 82, Düzce 82, Çıkkale 82, Çakırı 82, Antalya 166, Isparta 66, Burdur 66, Aydın 116, Denizli 100, Muğla 86, Balıkesir 150, Çanakkale 66; Bitlis, Siirt 100; Muş 100, Van 110, Hakıri 86, Hakkale 86, Bukkırı 82, Bukırı 82, Çakırı 82, Çakırı 82, Antalya 166, Isparta 66, Burdur, Burdur, Aydın 116, Denizli 160, Şekesir 160, Şankale 66; Şakkale 100, Şankale 100, Sihir 100; Şeşışışışımımımımışışımış, Şeşımımımımımımımımımımımış, 66, 66, Şeşaşaşaşaşaşaş, 66, 66, 66, Şeş, Şeşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaş, 66, 66, 66, 66, 66, Şaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaş, Şaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşaşa In response to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu's 6/1110 question motion: The General Directorate of the Foundation has a pension of 1,127 people in need over the past three years. In this framework, 37 people in Kahramanmarash County still benefit from their needy monthly service. If Mr. Dedeoğlu is here, I'd like to ask his permission; there are a total number of needy, blind, orphaned, disabled people for each of the provinces; it may take me half an hour to read them, if you don't mind, and then I can present them as an information note. Mr. President, I'm here. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0039par0223	Thank you, Minister. Dear lawmakers, there is a decree in our Civil Code that if the question holders ask, they will be able to make a very brief additional statement. So, Mr. Ozkes, one of the people who hacked into the system...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0040par0226	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have listened to our Deputy Prime Minister, but he has really twisted and denied it. On Friday (August 26, 2011), the Prime Minister's Chilean central mosques and village mosques announced the opening of the Chile-TEM connection at Friday's prayers. I've got reports from the citizens that the announcement was made from both the county center and some villages. But they denied it and ignored it. I didn't ask for anything that wasn't there. To deny something that was real and to pretend it didn't exist became some of the most obvious qualities of all. And now they've added denial to spite.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0039par0229	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0041par0231	Mr. President, thank you. Dear Minister has answered my questions, but I'm going to ask something. Our region is very poor and has migrated. Especially the door to Mad Aktaş was built by Georgia, thanks to the President of Azerbaijan. The road between Azerbaijan and Turkey -- one and a half hours -- is connected if the gate to Aktaş opens. As for the opening of the Aktaş gate, I begged our Customs Minister, and he asked me to talk to TOBB. If the TOBB agrees, if it does, the door will open, or it will be difficult. Now, I beg you, can't the state of the Republic of Turkey control the government or the state of the Republic of Turkey? If the TOBB does this door, it'll be our road with Azerbaijan, the Turkish republics will meet. This is a very important, strategic road. I'm looking forward to your sensitivity to the opening of this Crazy Whitestone door.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0042par0234	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0043par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to thank our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc for his answers to my questions. We have many foundations from our ancestors in the world, in Turkey, and also in Kahramanmarash. As far as we've seen so far, not much preparation has been made under the protection of these foundations, not much restoration and decorations have been done to secure our foundations fully, to move them to future generations. Do you think that's been thought of for the rest of the semester? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0044par0240	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0045par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. And I thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister specifically for the information on the number of staff and ratings at TRT, but I would like to say that according to the political parties, the part about explaining the time left at TRT is not very satisfying. I don't think what they say reflects the truth. In particular, the recent political parties received a share of the TRT (TRT) according to representation rates in parliament, which unfortunately is far from a statement that we find credible. In particular, the public knows that TRT had reported directly to the ruling party during the time of the news at TRT-1. You have a statistic on this, and I'd like to say I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0046par0245	Thank you, Mr. Light. Madam Secretary, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0047par0247	Mr. Ozkes is the friend whose most questions we've answered today. In Chile, he asked, claiming that a public declaration was made by religious officials from a mosque, and I expressed our official answer. So, in a very offensive way, it means that it's a lie or a twist. I just have one question: Were you present in Chile that day? If you've heard this in person, I'll take the word of a congressman. You can take my answer and throw it in the trash can. But if that's how you asked us by hearing from someone, then it's up to you to accept the answer given by a Deputy Prime Minister. I've answered your other questions in detail, but since you've been in Parliament, I personally think your speech, your words should be more attentive. And I'd like to introduce this to you as a criticism. If you were present at Friday's prayer that day in Chile, and you have heard such an announcement with your ears, I do not ask you, but I ask your person, and I will take credit for what you say. You don't have to come, I'll answer to my other friends. Mr. Ensar Öğüt, in each speech, talks here -- as MP of the region, rightly -- talks about the economic benefits of opening the door to Mad Aktaş, and I agree. I gave a very detailed answer today. In response from our Ministry of Customs and Trade, especially in 2011, all work is done, and perhaps these days, this opening can be opened, but we also need to follow and conclude this issue. I thank him. Mr. Dedeoglu, thank you to my friend. As far as we know, we had our answers. Of course, we need to look after the foundation, it's a trust for us. Since 2002, we have had a good work in restoring, repair, or remodeling our historical existence, which is close to 3,500. But I'd like to point out that the budget for the General Directorate of Foundations is a private budget, not part of the general budget. We have to budget our income. That's about 400 million. Here, more than 200 million are earmarked for investment. When we look at the inventory in Turkey, I know that the number of foundations to be restored is growing, and if there are demands on this issue, we will be able to meet them first, but I have answered your question as it was added to Law 5737. So use the restaurant meat and long-term use. And I have made for you the distribution of these cities. We'll continue the restoration from now on. Major repairs, we'll continue the renovations. That's our original mission. Mr. Scholar Light says he finds something missing from his question about TRT. That's the topic that comes up in the written question motions. So there are allegations by all of our opposition parties that the time set aside for political parties is not enough for news or news-related events, that perhaps there is discrimination, that power has been broken on this issue. It's a criticism. We remember, over time, specifically, how much information was given in the written question motions today, or how long was the time of the news that we responded to the parties during these periods? I'll be happy to answer that, if you'll just put a period of time into it. We're public broadcasting. A public broadcaster's organization must be neutral and fair. It's not just a general president's speech, it's our news. When we see any news-based events, we want to make sure that we announce them, report them, and bring them into the news. Please, I'd be happy to answer a written question motion considering certain periods. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0253	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0049par0254	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0255	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0049par0256	There's bullying, I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0257	Sarcasm?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0049par0258	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0259	How dare you, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0049par0260	Haven't you heard, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0261	Wait a second... you know, the Deputy Prime Minister said, "If you've witnessed it, I respect your word, throw my answers in the trash." He said, "If not, I..."
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0049par0262	You hear the normal words, don't you hear the others, sir?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0263	Sir...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0050par0264	So what, sir? He'll have to explain his reasons for picking on you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0265	I want to know what bullying is, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0051par0266	That I said hurtful things that he couldn't make up for.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0048par0267	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0051par0268	...they spoke my name.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0052par0270	That's a good thing.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0051par0271	Yeah, don't come out of everything!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0053par0272	Wait a minute, wait a minute... Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0054par0274	What right do you have to talk to me about this?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0055par0275	Am I not allowed to talk, or am I not allowed to talk?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0053par0276	Mr. Ozkes, I beg you...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0054par0277	What are you doing this hand gesture based on?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0055par0278	I don't have the right to speak!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0053par0280	Mr. Ozkes, I beg you...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0056par0281	Mr. President, what kind of language is that?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0053par0282	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0057par0283	How come? There's 50 people throwing words at you!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0056par0284	That's no way to say it! You'll pretend to be a congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0057par0285	Don't we have the right to talk? Are we prisoners or prisoners?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit02spe0058par0286	I'm calling a recess in five minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0003	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0004	I'm asking you, there's teasing, I want promises.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0005	Now the session is closed, but I'll take a look at the reports, so I'll make a promise to your witness. Now, if you'll excuse me, the decision has been made...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0007	No, sir, I beg you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0008	I'm asking you. That's the way it is, I'll have the transcripts looked at, if I may, sir. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0009	Don't you have ears, sir? Your ears heard it.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0010	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0011	Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0012	What did he say to you?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0013	You can't be biased. This is the Grand National Assembly!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0014	No, it's not biased. See, now, item 1...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0015	This is the Grand National Assembly, sir, not your farm!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0016	One moment, sir... one moment, sir... First, I invite you to calm down. Don't raise your voice.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0018	I'm calm, very calm.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0019	Excuse me.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0020	I know what I'm saying, I'm calm.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0021	Second, we're in session two. I'll have the records brought in. If there's been any bullying on your part, I'll give you my word. Now, if you'll excuse me, sir, let's continue.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0057par0023	You're wrong, you're biased.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0058par0024	In accordance with the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda for General Discussion and Parliamentary Review. The investigation of İstanbul MP Ali Halaman and 20 MPs (10/178), Yalova MP Basal Coşkun and 23 MPs (10/179), Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan (10/176), İstanbul MP Tülay Saşoglu and 21 MPs (10/180), Adana MP Ali Halaman and 20 MPs (10/178), Yalova MP Baskun and 23 MPs (10/179), Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan (10/179), on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group (10/180) and Yalov (10/180), and on the development of 21 MPs and on the basis of the development of the Turkey's main issues of the Turkish Parliament (10/181). Government? He's in position. I'm not going to re-read the parliamentary research motions since they've been read in the General Assembly before. According to our Interior Charter, parliament will be promised to the government, political party groups and the first signee in the motions, or another signator, in order to determine whether or not to open its investigation. Their talking time is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders. Now, I'm going to read the names of the elected lawmakers. On behalf of the government, Mr. National Education Minister Ömer Dinçer; on behalf of the group, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group Aytuğ Atçı, Mersin MP; on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP; on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Zuhal Topcu, Ankara MP; on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Zeynep Armaman Aldı, Şanlıurfa MP. Öğurge owners: Halide İncekara, İstanbul; Kerim Özkul, Konya; Tülay Selatoğlu, Ankara; Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash; Çek Coşkun, Yalova; Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul; Recep Gürkan, Edirne. The first word now is Mr. Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0059par0040	Mr. President, very dear MPs, before I begin my words, I salute you all. Dear friends, today we will discuss a matter that is truly important to our country. Although there have indeed been many studies that have been done, we are discussing together a subject that, after today, we still need to do a lot of work, and if we succeed in these studies, the added value will be very high. Very valuable friends, as you know, there is actually a Department of Special Education General Directorate within the Ministry of National Education. During previous periods, the Office of Special Education was mainly focused on the education and development of disabled students, while at times or at certain rates, it also conducted programmes on the education and development of special talented children. A few months ago, we established a special unit for the education of our children with special abilities during the restructuring process at the Ministry of National Education under the Code No. 652. In this group, which we call the Special Talents Group Chairman, we have also formed a team that, in fact, will be working to make progress in this field, aware of what we're going to talk about today. From this point of view, it seems to be an important contribution for us, in fact, that the National Education Ministry's restructuring process and the implementation of the Turkish Parliament's emphasis on the issue and the research commission are co-ordinated to follow each other. Normally in all the world countries, there's a rate that's been widely accepted, although it's difficult to make a general assessment of children with superior abilities and superior minds and children. It is generally accepted that 2 percent of the total population is highly skilled. So from this point of view, we take a 2 percent rate for highly gifted children in our country as a strategic basis for education and development, and we evaluate it. The group presidency on the development of special abilities, basically this is the detection and diagnosis of the 2 per cent student group, the facilitating of their education, the facilitating of access to education, the special training and development of teachers who will take part in this field, and the personnel who will work in this field will conduct programmes and efforts related to the discovery of their expertise in this area. Of course, there are many different models in the world, especially about the recognition, identification, identification, and the introduction of educational programmes. At the beginning of these models, special schools are held for special talented individuals in countries such as the United States, Britain, Germany, Japan and the Republic of Korea. These children are chosen, and after they've been diagnosed and diagnosed, they're subject to training in private schools. In countries such as Britain, Hungary, Slovenia, Austria, Russia, Poland, the most remarkable aspect of private schools is that they focus more on the area of beautiful art. We find that there is a tendency in music, theatre, painting, and so on that is more important to the education of children with special abilities than children with superior minds. Again, in Canada, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain and Italy, individualised education policies are being followed within the teaching system. So in other words, there are special programs for children who have been found to be superior or superior in the existing knitting program, who have been found to have been identified, and are in the same school, and because of those special programs, the children's abilities are being revealed. Of course, I have to say that in our country, we're actually implementing a model just like this. In Turkey, more individualized training programmes have been built mainly, but at times a structure is being processed by other models. We use the work we use in our country as more of an accelerated and enriched children's education program, and while we do that, we do more science arts centers, partly -- perhaps with an selection process -- special programs for special children in our schools, such as science high schools, social sciences high schools, fine arts and sports schools. In order for science centers to be more aware of individual abilities, if any of our children are thought to be gifted or superior, there are some tests and diagnostic methods that determine the situation of children, and then special programs are being conducted for them to train in line with the types of abilities. Our scientific arts centers have reached 63, so far, in Turkey's 57 counties. In almost all our provinces, we're trying to establish the centers of science art, but we have to admit that we're having problems because we don't have enough experts in the practice of science centers especially of diagnosis and diagnosis and the development of education programmes for individuals. A total of 10,960 students have been given individualized education in accordance with their abilities in Turkey, and 154 students are also trained in music and 422 students in the field of art. From that point of view, we have about 138 science high schools in Turkey, as I've just said, from schools where we practice a heavily individualized education program. Social sciences: We have 31 social science high schools. Anatolian fine arts and sports schools: We have these high schools around 90, and again in our high schools, if we have students who have been known to be superior or highly skilled, we can run programs for them in their schools. Again, in addition to all of this, we have 10 schools that have been specially opened for our children with the superior ability in this area that we describe as music and ballet elementary schools. You know, in our country, there are also class upgrades to the training of special talented individuals in training model practices. In particular, I would like to say that we also apply an application here, such as to start training in the upper classes, especially when it is noted that children who are just starting elementary school have superior skills or superior intelligence in the 1st grade. Of course, for all of this, especially the guidance counselors in the classrooms and branches, the class teachers, the tests that we're going to run, the diagnostics, the diagnostics that we're going to be doing, and the family has finally asked for it. But all of these efforts, in particular, have been part of the practice that the Ministry of National Education has been doing until 2009, focusing on a little bit more on the individual. There was no strategy at the national level. In 2009, on 17 June 2009, the High Council of Sciences and Technology -- you know, the secretary of TÜBITAK (TÜBITAK) -- was also a member of the Ministry of National Education, but was taken to the prime minister's level -- launched a preparation and project to develop a national-level strategy for the education of gifted children. As the Ministry of National Education, we have taken on the task of drafting this strategy. From 2009 to this time, our work on determining the national strategy for the education of highly gifted children has been carried out and implemented. In other words, we have completed our draft work on the education strategy of national gifted children, but we have not been able to share with the public since this draft text, which we assume may or may not be discussed with the next Science and Technology High Council, has not yet been decided. But in the preparation of this strategy, we have worked with all the NGOs and experts involved in public opinion. First, on 23-25 September 2004, the 1st Turkey Special Talented Children Congress was organized in Istanbul. Then again, in 2009, the Exquisite Skills and the Supreme Intelligence Act was carried out. In doing so, under normal circumstances, various institutions such as the Faculty of Education at the University of Marmara School of Education, the Children's Foundation for Children, and the Research and Appliance Centre for Superior Talents, TÜBITAK, TUSSIDE were involved in studies. In 2009, the Special Education Department of the Faculty of Education at Anadolu University was again organized by the Education Department of Higher Sciences and the Special Skills Education Programme (YEP) and the 2nd National Special Talents Congress, and the work on this congress was considered in our draft. The National Education Ministry (TÜBITAK) co-operation held a 2009-2013 preparation meeting for the Education Strategy and Applied Plan of Special Talented Individuals (TÜBITAK) on 22 December 2009. The national Ministry of Education, Koç University and Turkish Education Foundation (TEV) co-operation and co-operation organized the 1st National Special Talented Education Symposium at Koç University in İstanbul in 2010, titled the "recognising and monitoring" of education models, human resources and sustainability. The meeting, organised by the Ministry of National Education, TÜBITAK and TÜSSIDE, was held between 14 June-20 December 2010. The National Education Ministry, TÜBITAK, TÜSSIDE, University and NGO business forces for the Special Individuals Strategy and Approval Plan 2012-2016 was presented to the opinion of experts in the field in June 2011, as a result of joint work by the relevant advisers, and at the end of the work between December 20th and 22nd 2010, the draft of the Strategy Charter was held, and it was finally decided on four main topics of special skills to determine, resources and sustainability. Very dear friends, very briefly, I would like to present you with some information about these four main topics and basic strategies. First of all, goals and goals related to the identification of our gifted children have been created as basic strategies. First of all, using multiple diagnostic models above all, as targets. We are now aware that our work on these models is insufficient. In this regard, a preparation is being carried out to develop multiple diagnostic models. Second, there's work going on to create different measurements and evaluations and standardization, and finally, we're arguing about how the systems can be associated with monitoring and evaluation of all this work. The second area is the creation of goals and goals related to training models. It's a discussion that we're conducting on the competence of our current model of education, or more of the Individual Education Development Model. We also work to improve the diversity and quality of services, to develop tested educational models, and to improve what exists, and to finally, by developing mentoring practices in education, to create an opportunity for our teachers here not only for theoretical education, but also for their practical education. The third area is being conducted on the creation of education programmes for people who are highly skilled, who are staffed in institutions, who are able to understand and manage those children again, to improve the capacity of personnel to be able to be able to be able to be able to manage them, to improve their qualifications, to fully establish the staff needs of personnel, and to complete the work of staff and staff who are working, and as a fourth component, we are finally working on a separate component of the work done in this field, to ensure the continuity and sustainability of education and development activities, to strengthen the continuity of the institutional structure with this purpose, to complete and to complete the infrastructure of information communication technology, and to build up and to a culture. As a result, I would like to make a brief statement that the study and research of the Turkish Grand National Assembly on this issue will actually be a guide for our work and a support for our work. In that sense, we believe that this work by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will give us strength. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my friends for their efforts in this study and the motion. I want to thank you for believing that the work will be done here and will contribute to the Turkish education system, especially to the development of our gifted children.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0060par0069	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. First speaker on behalf of the groups, Mersin MP Aytuğ Thrower on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Horseman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0061par0074	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the establishment of parliamentary research into identifying superior or gifted individuals in our country, identifying problems with their education and finding solutions. I salute you all with love and respect. The richness of the geography of our homeland has made Anatolia a place where various communities have passed through the history of mankind for thousands of years. This has also given our Anatolian a genetic wealth, and in the historical process, the most important discoveries and advances in human history took place here on our soil. For example, it can be wheel, writing, agriculture, law, mathematics, geometry. Dear lawmakers, those who leave a mark on human history make up about 2 to 3 percent of society. These are the most talented and intelligent in society. This ratio, in fact, is roughly the same for all communities, but because of the properties of our geography and genetic wealth, it is considered to be a bit higher in Anatolia, which is also supported by various scientific studies. I mean, we have to realize that we have a treasure, and we have to do well with it, for the good of our country. In the study of education systems of societies that have raised the level of prosperity in the world, it is clear that the superior intelligent or skilled population, which constitutes between 2 and 3 per cent of society, is protected, and they are privileged. So, what's the situation in our country? In pre-Republic Asia Minor, it was only 5 to 6 per cent of the readership. The appearance of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, a brilliant and gifted man in this land, has changed the fortune and history of this geography. Along with the republic he founded, the adoption of new letters, the Education Union Act and the rapid training campaign have led us to the level of modern education. The spread of education throughout Anatolia also laid the groundwork for the emergence of talented individuals from all over the country and for the direction of society. Dear lawmakers, in the last 70 years, the changes in education and studies of human intelligence around the world have shown that the highly skilled part of society should be trained differently. It is important to see what we first understand from the word "skillful" or "intelligent" individuals with superior talent or intelligence, to identify problems related to their education and lives, and even to the efficient employment of these individuals. In terms of definition of superior or superior intelligence, genetic equipment and environmental stimuli -- look, I underline environmental stimulus -- those with increased intelligence or skill development, and those with advanced brain function, as a result of this increase, are described as highly skilled, or highly intelligent. All individuals inherit their own inherited structure from their parents. There's no denying that talent and intelligence are hereditary. In the last 20 to 20 years, intelligence has also been considered dynamic. With the resources provided by the environment, it is possible to increase the development of intelligence or ability, or to prevent the development of intelligence or ability with negative environmental factors. That's where education becomes important. So individuals who are born with superior talent, born with superior talent or intelligence, are seriously influenced by the environment. So these individuals can be better because of the environment or worse because of bad environmental conditions. So, since this research commission cannot interfere with the genetic structure of individuals, it must seek ways to make healing initiatives in environmental matters. Of course, there's an exception, Erzurum, the principal of the school who's thinking of detecting children with criminal potential from their chromosomes and destroying them before they can even walk, and if there is, the mentality that supports Erzurum doesn't include that. Dear lawmakers, what do we mean by environmental factors? We'll set up a commission, and this commission will help our gifted, brilliant children, examine their problems, and how can we benefit more, offer them to the community? Yes. And will this commission contribute to the genetic structure of these children? No. Then it can have a serious effect on environmental factors. What do I mean by environmental factors? We can study environmental factors in a very broad range. It is possible to allow the baby to receive breast milk from the time it was still in its mother's womb, counting the effects and education of an older age, feeding, family environment, and society. The perception that the commission should basically create is that any baby that's going to be born in our country, but any baby can be superior or gifted. Why? Because as soon as a baby is born, we don't know if this baby is superior or gifted. Mr. Secretary has just said that we can understand it when primary school is in the 1st grade or in pre-school, but it may be too late now, because in the first five or six years he's had, we haven't seen, noticed, and we haven't done any work on it. Can we do it? We can't. So each individual born in our society has the opportunity to choose those individuals who are superior or superior in the later stages by acting as if they were intelligent, as if they were gifted. So when the primary school came to the 1st grade, what if this child was smart, this child is very good. When we see it as something like this, we might actually lose a very intelligent child, so if this child was taken care of well, if he had breast milk, if he had less infection, or if his family had a higher level of well-being, maybe he would have been much higher than where he is now. So I think it's our duty, together with individuals who, despite everything, have mastery, to identify individuals with very small initiatives, who may be superior or superior, even at a very early age, and even to evaluate all individuals in that scope, as I say, after they've been identified as superior or gifted, to take special care of them, our duty, our duty. My dear friends, intelligence is not static; intelligence is dynamic, and because of its dynamic properties, because of its constant impact on environmental conditions, it can make serious changes from birth to death, not the same. Therefore, these individuals must be constantly supported. So you've identified an individual, you've identified a child, you've said seven years old, eight years old, you're a little over-talented, but you've left him at eighteen years old, so if he's superior, he's brilliant, he can use his intelligence very badly because these individuals expect his intelligence to be manipulated. Highly intelligent and talented individuals must be trained to maintain their mental development according to their own level. A highly skilled student can be studied in roughly five main categories: general mental ability, special academic ability, creative or productive thinking ability, leadership ability and psychomotor ability, so we can include visual arts. For God's sake, which one don't we need? It is our duty to find and support our country's valuable assets, to find and find out all its leadership qualities, academic abilities, general mental abilities, and visually, artistic abilities. Over the years -- it's always been seen among the people, known -- they've been evaluated by the classic criteria called the IQ. But this assessment is actually not very comprehensive, and it's not very useful in terms of intelligence and superior ability. So, given different abilities and skills, we can also see that the concept of intelligence and ability are different. What do scientists say in this field? The final approach in this area is that children of superior ability are trained under the name of the ability to develop, including other students, who are children and love to share, without forgetting that they are children and love to share, in a program that appeals to everyone. Their education is not a privilege, but a need. I mean, they're highly skilled; you take them, you train them in private centers, you take care of them in private, it's as if there's a sense of why those children are being cared for more in society. Just as children with limited abilities, limited intelligence, special care should be given to the superior children, this is also a need, because the results of research are that children with superior abilities need special education as much as students with at least failures and inability to learn. We should definitely get away from this perception -- and I'm going to talk about a little bit -- that boy is superior in intelligence, this boy is superior in talent, let him pull himself together. His mentality is absolutely wrong. In a moment, I'm going to start telling you what kind of problems these kids are going through. Studies have shown that there is no way for these students to succeed in all areas, that they can fail in school courses, and that they can experience major problems when academic, social, and emotional needs are not satisfied, and that they can also affect the class environment. So we've seen again how important it is for these children to be trained in private, to take special care of these children. Statistically, between 10 and 15 percent of the child's population are intelligent and hardworking children. They don't have the greatest qualities; you, like us, are smart, hardworking, they've come somewhere, but from 2 to 5 percent, they're superior or superior. Now, we're supposed to pull out these highly gifted, highly intelligent children with our tweezers, and we're supposed to be all over them. So, how do we figure out the talented kids? Talented children thrive ahead of their time. These kids are much faster at learning and understanding a subject than children with average abilities, so they immediately make themselves notice, as long as an eye examines them. Talented children love to be independent, interested in exploring on their own, tampering with everything. Talented children do not limit their interests; they focus heavily on what they are interested in and can sever their ties with the outside world. So, these, in situations like this, can create the perception that these kids are like abnormal children. Well, so far so good, our brilliant children are fine. Do they have problems? Of course I do. That's why these kids should be raised in private. Unlike the general opinion, gifted children are not always appreciated. We know that many are in danger of misunderstanding, lack of attention, and ridicule. Having superior abilities can be a chance in the eyes of many. But the truth isn't what it's supposed to be. In low-level societies, the problem is that, you know, this is a troubled child, a problem child. These children are often pushed out of the community because they're ridiculed because they're different. Teachers at school may not know how to train children who display a very different structure than their peers. That's a very dangerous approach. Neither can parents, which is a very dangerous approach. Some teachers, and even worse, they may not even notice these kids. Even more severe is that these children are easily and wrongly diagnosed with attention loss and hyperactive syndrome, which is why they can be given various medications. So even behavioral patterns from the nature of an intelligent child can be perceived from time to time as a disease. Meanwhile, when the children's expectations for a successful intellectual, an artist, and a creative work are not fulfilled, they do not hesitate to brand children as failures. So, this commission we're going to set up has to work, considering these details. Generally, psychologists who tend to deal with unnatural behavior have chosen to deal with those who are more intelligent than with talented children. However, recent research has focused on these children, and these children have been given priority. Today, researchers say that 25 percent of children with superior abilities have social and emotional problems in one of the four gifted children. They have these problems twice as many as normal, and as their ability, their intelligence, comes down to normal, these problems go down. I just want to give you a warning here: don't ever think that the opposite is true. So people who are troubled, I'm superior, I'm gifted, so don't let them define themselves. By the end of their childhood, these gifted children gradually begin to hide themselves, even at the risk of becoming outcasts. So they try to make it look like they're no different from the other kids. They also try to deal with problems that have evolved ahead of their time, such as their ability, their introverts, and their sense of loneliness. Teachers who have to teach one kind of education don't know how to train talented children. What's worse is, in one field, it's more than the other kids, but if the same kid is behind other kids in other areas, then there's these kids whose skills are not evenly distributed, and the teachers don't really know how to deal with them. In some ways, the education of normal children who are capable and in some ways unable to do so is therefore a source of many problems. Here, our commission will also discuss these problems with these studies and try to find solutions. Children with musical, artistic and athletic skills can't achieve much in these tests, such as IQ tests. It is possible for him to say, "How can a very talented child have such a low IQ?" Highly skilled children, who have had the drive to move societies forward, should first be raised as individuals capable of their own happiness and mental health. If these kids don't grow up like this, they could be trouble for society, and you might have to deal with a very intelligent, very talented person. Well, we have a source this important, and I wonder if we can save enough resources in our country for our children with superior intelligence or talent. Look, I'm going to give you a very dramatic example. I've reviewed the internal audit report from the Ministry of National Education. The internal audit report from the Ministry of National Education says: "The money left to subsidiary groups in 2009 is spent only one-in-a-thousandths of the money from the general budget funds." I mean, of course, I'm not saying we shouldn't spend money on sub-intelligent groups, let's spend it, of course, it's very important. And as a pediatrician, I underline that three times. It's very important. There must be a grant there, enough funding, but that doesn't mean that superior minds will be neglected. So, why is it so different? Is that a political choice? I don't know, but there's no way to say that the AKP governments are making these expenditures unconsciously. There is a point that no school has opened today except for schools for sub-intellectives: 99 percent of the spending on sub-intelligent groups is done through the private sector, while 99 percent of the spending is done by the state. So the money spent on sub-intelligent groups has been mostly transferred to the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, isn't it also important that the education of normal, intelligent, normal individuals, who will follow the skills of superior minds, study their work? It's as important as this. We all know that AKP has turned national education into a puzzle board in its ten-year power. Four national education ministers have changed in ten years, but national education has not been in their way. We know that over the years, knowing or not, AKP has created a gap in education, which has been filled by classrooms. Now, the same AKP has come up with a law proposal that, when you add it up, is not 12 in any way. This law has changed greatly in ten days, although it appears to have submitted the offer. Now, what's the point of making so many changes in such a short time? He didn't report it. The matter has not been discussed enough. Now, I'm asking the lawmakers who made this offer and had nothing to do with education: how do you feel when an offer you've imposed has changed so much in ten days? What happens to our uninterrupted basic training? Of course it's a dream. In no way does he know that we can't come to a place that we want, that we expect, that we miss, that we can't come to with this law, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0062par0105	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0063par0110	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. There are discussions in parliament from time to time: we can't move together, we can't act together, the opposition isn't acting constructively, the opposition isn't cooperating, the opposition isn't doing business, it's blocking us, so let's cut him off, let's bring in the Civil Charter, bring in the Parliament publications, cut off the live broadcasts. What research motion did the AK PARTY, which so far holds the majority of Congress, bring, and we refused? I'd like to ask you from here. You said the Internet, we already had a motion. We said it's true. We agreed. It's a research proposal that four party groups brought in today on top-of-the-line kids with talent. You brought this, good. Did we object? All your mistakes, your M.O., the commission's working upstairs, folks, 4+4+4 is being discussed. The Education Commission is working up here, but we're collaborating by combining the four parties, so the three opposition parties just want to co-operate and work together. Now, there's no point in talking too theoretically here. We don't know what's going to come out of the Board of Education up there, we don't know what's going to happen with the motions in the General Assembly. So, guys, the government that thought of 4+4, didn't they think of that in that bag of law? I mean, you're looking into that bag of law, everything's in, college names are in, FATIH Project's in, audit standards are in, the Banking Editing Board's in, and, well, that's why I have to ask, brother, why didn't this get in! That's how you work? The biggest mistake the EC PARTY government has made is that it does not employ members of this group. He hires bureaucrats. There's a parliamentary majority power that employs bureaucrats. The bureaucrats work; they don't listen to universities, they don't listen to civil society, they don't listen to unions, they don't listen to opposition parties, they don't argue on any side, they don't talk; they bring you here, and then you have to take over, and then you have to take over your offer; it's wrong; it's wrong. Is education just your problem, guys? Let's discuss education properly. I say bring me the training at the military academys and have them discuss it. Why isn't that your offer? Do you know what kind of ideological training is given at the military academy? Do you know that the people who were taken there were not allowed into military schools, not even the descendants of the 2 million people who were tagged on September 12th, in general and by regulations? Do you realize that? On April 4th, the Kenan universe will be judged for show. The 78th People's Foundation Initiative, the Federation, the associations come and visit all the groups, all of us. You, in the army, after not decoding official ideology in training in armed forces, taboos, taboos, standards, tornadoes, ideology, racism, discrimination, when you can't do that in police academys, do as much as you want, 4x4, 4+4, 4+12. Education is one. Look, kindergarten, pre-school prep is part of this, right? Now, at 7:00 p.m., the live broadcast will be cut off, and my speech will be interrupted. Bring before your eyes the elementary school student who went on the run in Roboski. Bring his talent, his intelligence, his body, his mother's heart, which was torn to pieces when he was going to smuggle 50 lira diesel. You, with this system, with this education system, you couldn't take care of those kids, how are you going to solve the education? Today, our Prime Minister's wife was in Roboski. He was with the Council of Ministers, who lost 28 points in the Middle East, and 14 of them were elementary school students. I mean, these were the kids that went to those schools that you were seeing in the 4+4+4 system -- the lives that were torn apart for a notebook, for a pen, for a course. We saw it today, and they hosted it in Roboski, where our prime minister's wife is from, where she is from, and where she is from, and not a stranger. Mr. Atalay had gone with his wife, and there were other MPs -- they met them -- but they spoke with honor, and they spoke clearly. They hosted and reproached, and they spoke clearly, and they demanded justice, and they were asked for education along with justice. You will see those requests on the evening news today, with education in the native language, with worship. We have a reality, 75 million people live in our country, 75 million people live in the country, within the rule of minority law set with Lausanne, only within the rule of non-Muslim law, their own private schools... limited by the Tevhidi Tedrisat Law, Law 625, Armenian schools are broadcast in Armenian and Turkish, or in Greek schools. But there are no Suryans. Why? They've never made demands, not minorities, they're forbidden. But aren't there other educational topics in different languages among the 39 - 45th articles of the same Law? I do. There's Kurdish, there's Circics, there's Lazca, there's all the other languages, but how can a Parliament that hasn't even implemented Lausanne solve this problem? Tell me, do people only make beautiful music in one language? Tell me, can they write beautiful poems in a language? Is it good literature in a language? Do you sing beautiful songs in a language? Do you only dream in one language? Is the world to be looked at only in one language? Only in one language do people produce life and art, have perspectives on life? Wealth, multiculturalism, multilingualism are now a modern stone of the universal world. If the education system is banned, no superior child and gifted child can be raised with education outside his native language. There's a diagnosis made by all linguists, who learn a different language other than their native language, who, for example, is Turkish, who goes to France and learns French, and then develops it, no matter how much he develops himself, using his abilities, developing his intelligence, creating, creating, creating life, and embracing life. Now, we're going to talk about the theory, the research commission, the future experts, they're all going to talk about TBITAK. God is in the hands of my party, my group. Why is it around TUBITAK? How the science board has never been able to give a proper report to this House until today. There are reports of students entering this category around 8,800. Well, the standard in the world is between two and three percent. When you take this off, when you compare it to 75 million, that's when it comes out. Now, in the name of science, we need to get up and question where all this RD money is going. Friends, this Parliament is a matter of how education is commercialized, how it is metabolized, and how it is offered to control the market. Because we don't have a program for this category, we have a problem with gifted children, a problem with a country. Look -- first school, middle school, high school -- there's private schools, there's competitions in all private schools, there's records for this group. No? I can name you ten schools in Istanbul, there are studies, but the basic offer is not in the law. The basic proposal began to be discussed by Article 2 of the law. The CHP people started the opposition by twelve hours. Come on, 12 hours, 7 people, 6 members, come to the House next week. Let's just say he's here, and we'll have our children's future tied to a secure educational system? Will we raise our future, our future, according to the universal values of the 21st century, human values, environmental values, national values, values of humanity, values of justice, values of conscience, moral values? In society, what moral, honesty ideals will we give to children who come from within a system where violence has gone astray, profit, tax evasion is protected by forgiveness? We're going through a very serious point, a very serious education interrogation. In this interrogation, of course, denial, destruction, discrimination, discrimination, ban, monetism, militantism, all these diseases, all these germs, all these viruses, must be removed from the educational system. If you put his system on a healthy basis, you imbue moral values: In some countries, they put a scale next to gardens. The owner's not there, so you can have as many apples as you want. The price of the apple is written, you buy it, you put your money away. His moral obligation compels him, that's how he got his education. But one of them will come, and he won't know that I've put money in it. He'll take what he wants. It's also a moral dissolution. Now, this starts with training. As long as education doesn't put all these values on the table as a whole, we'll continue with a crippled education system. You will apply the same system in a village in the mountains, and in an Istanbul metropolitan area, and in an elementary school in Bosphorus, facing the waters of the Bosphorus! Did you know that it snowed 10 feet [4 m] on Karliova? It's a carry-on training system. How's it gonna go? You're taking sleds there? Certainly, there are roads that don't open for transportation in Ovacık. So if the geography of this country, its properties, its maps, its languages, its cultures can't be invested as a whole, then you're from tourism in Antalya... and there's a program on TV called You're the Talent. If you turn this place, this system, this research, this law, come out of it. It's not like that. This is serious stuff, guys, you can't rush it. This educational work, if necessary, will be studied for a year, two years, debated to the full, even after this new constitutional process, one year, you will have no loss. No, I'm going to do that. If you say... we don't look at it that narrowly, so we don't think -- you're going to develop a religious youth -- or in a narrow sense, we're not looking at a critical level. In fact, how does the neoliberal system provide low labor? How do you lower your apprentice age? How do you leave girls at home after four years, and how do you take them out of life? Now, with this educational system, a child can make beautiful music -- genius, beautiful voice, talented -- but not in Turkish, suppose Lazca. So from the land of Kazim Sheepman, a beautiful boy was gifted. What are you going to do with him in this country? Since it's not Turkish, it's forbidden. Sit down, citizen. I don't know you. Would you say? Are you saying you're not the son of this country? But music is universal. The words of that music can be translated into 500 languages, a thousand languages, and a song can be translated from that language into thousands of languages, and it can cost the world on all televisions, on all televisions, on the Internet, on social networks in one day. That's the kind of world we live in. It's not all written in letters like it used to be. As we go through a educational system like this, we have good intentions for this research commission... and it's good that we don't see this research as harmful, but as opposition, we also believe that a better research as groups will definitely contribute in this field, but when we think about it together with a law proposal, we think that 75 million people in this country don't deserve it. We don't deserve these commands, this unprepared approach, this unscheduled approach, this unscheduled approach, this unsolicited approach, this unsolicited approach to the public, the approach that doesn't ask the university, the approach that doesn't study world examples, and I know, we don't accept the self-centered approach, we don't understand it, we find it difficult to understand, because we don't see it as democracy. This isn't democracy, guys. Democracy, red tape, he'll do whatever you tell him to do with bureaucracy. You say to bureaucracy: "Do something like this. See September 12th before February 28th. On September 12th, the generals struck, and then they said to them, "Make a coup law. From the Constitution to the fundamental laws of the law." Well, now you're criticizing February 28th, bringing in another version of what February 28th did. That's not true, that's a way to lose attitude. Who'd he lose it to? Believe me, I don't care if the AK has lost to PARTY or lost to another party; Turkey will lose to it, losing it to 75 million. Every day, every month, every email, every program, every stationery, every program, every new education course, new courses, new understandings, new classes, new appointments, new teachers, all of this is like the harbinger of a gigantic mess, a pitchfork, an inextricable lump. We're not here to cause trouble in Congress. I thought it was the art of running politics. We've come to solve our most basic problems. We couldn't argue in health, in the SGK, every day, the law changes. The most basic problem is that we can't argue in education, and from now on, every day, every day, every two months, there's gonna be law offers, and we're gonna try to correct them. It's not right for this House to waste time like this. I'm hoping this research proposal will be useful, and I wish you well. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit03spe0064par0133	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I'm taking a 20-minute break now.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0064par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue to talk together about the discovery of highly skilled children, education and the discovery of related problems and the opening of a parliamentary investigation with the aim of providing effective employment to contribute to the development of our country. The government is in place. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu will now take the lead. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Topcu. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0065par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party. My respects to all of you. We think it would be helpful for this work, especially for the discovery, development of gifted children and employment, to be integrated, especially through education, in view of a holistic perspective that has been discussed over the past few weeks, in which education should be increased to 12 years. Because continuous piece-by-piece studies never support each other, and that leads to problems later. Now, in general, when we look at it from the perspective of children with superior talent and superior intelligence, we know that these are very important values or values for a country. You don't grow up easy. In fact, we know that human education systems are very important in general, but we also think that education systems need to be redesigned in order to raise all of the young or all of the children. When we look at each child's birth certificate, we know that they all have a chain of abilities of their own. What's important is that these skills have been developed because scientific studies have now established that at least three areas of talent were brought in as dominant as they were born. In other areas of this situation, what we call a wake-up call by sending stimuli here -- what do we do with these areas, in fact, by teaching them? We can improve. Now, looking at it like this, we particularly say that now all of our youth, all of our children need to be raised, but especially our gifted children, we believe that these areas of talent need to be done separately so that they don't have to be reduced and more developed. Now, why are these kids important? When we look at it, we know that human ability, human intelligence, is taken between scarce resources, so that when we really perceive them as social capital, intellectual capital, they need special care, and especially in the globalized world, there's a lot of competition. This competition now highlights the need for each individual to be brought up within the scope of their own abilities, and it is imperative that the work be done in order to produce a added value for each individual's private space. So we're saying that there has to be a new opening in this area. These kids are important to us. These children must have a place within the educational system to create the future, to build the future, and a planned and programmed transition is necessary. In order for these children to realize themselves, as they were just described, new programs, new plans need to be made. In general, 2 percent of the population are highly gifted and highly intelligent children, and such an educational system is really important to prevent them from disappearing in the other general population. In general, when we look at the difference between superior children and other children, we see that they differ in many areas. We know that you differ in a learning field. The memory, the storage of information, and the perception of the other person or events or objects, we can see that it's very different from the others. We know that problem-solving skills exist in these children in a much different way, in a much shorter time, and we know that their reasoning skills have a very different ability to communicate between events or to create solutions. Now, before we go into details, especially now, when we look at raising teachers for this matter that really matters, we now know that there is only the master talent or superior intelligence teaching department at the two universities. We think it's really sad that there's only two colleges that have a teacher's department that's so important, and we think that other universities need work in that area. We know that many schools actually open in this area. There are some isolated studies, but we see that they're not enough. When we look at the characteristics of these children, we see that these children have a strong sense of curiosity, where their physical energy is high. These kids have an extraordinary memory. They can find many different solutions to the same problems, and they can produce them, and their sense of humor, especially recent studies, show us that the sense of humor and sense of humor and the ability to capture, understand, and do things differently than others. They learn to read earlier than their age, and they have a very large vocabulary, they learn quickly and easily, they can have a very good cause-effect relationship, and they can focus their attention long-term if they get their attention. They have a way of making friends with older people. They're sensitive and emotional at the same time. They have developed the concept of honesty and justice in their relationship. It's natural, they act the way they do, and they don't have fakes. They like competition. Especially when it comes to discovering something new, self-expression. They have feelings of responsibility and tend to do their duty. Their personal awareness is high and they can control themselves and they have a perfectionist structure. Now, here -- of course, these are very common features -- it's possible that we can see a lot of these features in these highly gifted, highly intelligent children. Now, there's not a lot of certainty to the recognition of these highly gifted and highly intelligent children, but there are a lot of tests. So these are what we know as group intelligence tests, we have group success tests, we have individual intelligence tests, we can see some studies in areas such as creative thinking tests, pictures, music. Of course, there's one thing that we need to stress in particular: since these tests have been discovered in general in the Western world, it's important that new tests or joints be made, especially in line with our culture, our tissue. Or what can we do with so many of our children? We can't see this child, some values, some areas when we submit to a test that is developed in accordance with the criteria or values of that Western or any other country. These kids can't really express themselves. Now, there are these kids -- there are these tests, but there are a lot of recognition areas, and there are a lot of places we can recognize these kids. In particular, we say that for these children, a file must be prepared, or -- it's called a postfolio -- these children must be followed from birth. Actually, all the kids need to be followed. As stated earlier, in order for these children to be guided in accordance with their abilities, all children must be followed. Children who are already highly skilled and highly intelligent will also be exposed by this pursuit and will be able to apply these trainings or these studies to them. Now, what should be considered when we look at this? In particular, family meetings are very important here. The family is supposed to observe the children in a different way of looking. Teachers' diagnosis is important, teachers' determination is important, but as we have just expressed, this awareness of teachers' education in these matters will increase the recognition of these children. We're saying the teacher factor is very important here. Family's important too, but any family can be a little emotional, maybe a little prudish, offer their child's abilities in a way that's different and exaggerated than other children; it's important, but it's not enough. This is one of the data that should be in our portfolio, in our file. In communication with the child's peers, we also see that their relationship with their peers, their alternatives, their management methods are effective, and that's what's being done -- this is a teacher, really an expert -- we think this interview will provide significant data, or we think that the behavior of the child in any case, or anywhere else -- is important. What the child produces, the materials he makes, that's the manual work he's done from the beginning of his kindergarten, the paintings he's done, they need to be evaluated. They may have expert opinions, and the work of the child in any social activity he goes to, or the work of the child's working groups, and his contributions to those studies can also be used as data here. When all of this is monitored long-term, it will create a data field about the child, and it is also important to make a decision or to direct it towards this child. Now, after these gatherings of highly gifted children... these achievements will, of course, continue, but by the time they're trained, there are many ways in the world that are mine. In fact, our fellow speakers and Mr. Minister of National Education have just expressed them. There are many methods, the most known of them, gathered under three titles for these children. One of them is the grouping method, which is to gather these children together, grouping them, gathering them in classrooms. These, of course, have their flaws, and they have their benefits. Each application has its own flaws and its positive aspects, its negative aspects. There are also disadvantages to keeping these kids together while they're triggering each other. These children distance themselves from other children, and their perception of themselves is very different, as if they were different from them, can create problems in their more advanced lives. These things need to be taken care of. We call one another the speed. In the acceleration event, perhaps you and your children have received such offers, and when you take this child to register at school, he knows how to read, let's skip class. Let's start in shape or, you know, early. You've come across some offers. It might actually be positive for the kid. Here, the child does not get bored. Such comments are made, but each child has a maturity age, and the child has a social environment. It's a problem for him to adapt to this social environment. It's important for the kid to act with his peers, whatever age group he's in, to play with his peers, to exchange feelings. We say they have a problem with that. Finally, we call this the most popular method of enrichment, one of the methods that is now being used around the world. The children are kept in their own peer groups in enrichment, but with a lot of activities, what's this kid doing? Let's just say he's busy. While taking some classes with their own peers here, with homework, with structures that are supported differently, with their own individualized or two or three people together, you know, let's say they have the skills in whatever field they're in, with concentrated courses in that field, but they've never been separated from their own peer group, and they're certainly... these can be independent work and research hours. Learning centers... these kids, you know, they're curious, these field trips can be made to satisfy their curiosity, places. Creative problem-solving programmes may be provided with technology or individual counseling for these children, in addition to their normal classes, these children may be supported by both social and psychological improvements and improved by their own expertise or abilities by working with a one-on-one consultant or an expert. As we've just pointed out, a teacher in the development of these children is one of the most important factors. To do that, you have to be more important to raise teachers. It's discovered somewhere, this child can be diagnosed -- as our friend just stated -- but then systematically, if this child's development is not supported or offered a concentrated training area or a working area, what does he do to this child? You can see it doesn't improve much in this area. We say: What can teachers do to these children that are so different from other children? He can give children more different assignments than other children, give them more exercises, use different materials or techniques, use these children to enrich, debate, project or dramatize, and for these children, he can work in the analysis, synthesis and evaluation. While making other children study information and cognitive processes, they can and can keep them active in the process of analysis, synthesis and evaluation, going a step further or a few more stages further. Furthermore, extensive observation and experiments are important for these children to learn. Off-school activities are also important for these children to learn and their achievements must not be compared to another child, they must be evaluated within the scope of their talent. These children must also be provided with appropriate environments and opportunities. Now, as we just stated, as the Minister stated, a new study has been launched since 2009. I don't know the exact details, but we'd like to point out that the science and art centers that are currently being implemented don't really apply to this area. It is not possible for us to say that the teachers employed here are much more effective or efficient in supporting these children, enriching their fields, adding much more to their abilities. We can also see that these areas can not be used actively, but can be opened on Saturday, on Sunday, especially on Sunday, with the permission of governorships that the national education directors do not allow to open. And that's causing problems, and these kids... well, the fees paid to teachers have been particularly problematic. Because these science and art centers are a problem because children follow or come from outside normal knitting, where they come from, in a much more continuous way, they don't create a programed structure. It's important that the teaching departments at the higher education schools for top-notch students have more numbers, that they, even more, are compartmentalized, that they are addressed to each of these children, and that new tests are developed for the conditions of our own country. And we can see that this, once again, will reveal much more beautiful and concrete work from a holistic perspective. For that, we repeat: We need to look at the holistic perspective to actually come up with a solution instead of making a law, as we now think of it. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0066par0038	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Zeynep Adığan. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0067par0043	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group to strengthen the efforts of the highly skilled individuals to provide more effectively for the development of our country. Today, Turkey is a country that has been positioned as the world's most advanced 16th-largest economy and its young population to redesign its own future, and when we look at its many international future predictions, it is positioned as the world's shining star country. And to achieve our country's 2023 goals, the most important resource that we have to evaluate with precision in order to get its rightful place among the 10 most advanced countries in the world, and one of the essential elements in the well-assessment of human resources in this framework is the detection and direction of highly skilled individuals and the ability to achieve that goal, they can achieve a brilliant career, as well as the country's ability to reach the highest levels that it can get from its own children. However, such a view, of course, should also be stated that it is not discrimination. So, yes, of course, everyone has equal rights and freedoms before the law, but at the same time, individuals have very different qualities psychologically and biologically, and when we evaluate them in terms of education and social development, these differences are a wealth. And differences, in fact, are not a situation to be eliminated as in every aspect of life, but a situation to be ignored, not printed on, on the contrary, a potential that needs to be developed, a potential that needs to be maintained, and therefore a basis for the different characteristics and development of individuals is a clear responsibility to the people of governments. And societies need individuals who can monitor the innovations of globalization and contribute to the level of development by analyzing these innovations. The growth of these individuals is only possible with educational systems that have developed abilities such as leadership, superior motivation, creativity, analytic thinking, which take into account individual differences. And at this point, when we evaluate the education of superior talent by the taking of various states around the world, the rare system of our culture has an important wealth that is the source of all this gifted education, and the importance of having such a savings in our past should be underlined. Of course, the republic, of course, has had certain contributions and various legal arrangements have been made in the sense of winning superior talent. But on the other hand, it is also important to express with an open heart that over the years, for many years, there has been no systematic approach to education policies, a special and social addition value, a continuum structure and approaches that aim at this elite group. And when we look at all the other countries that have been accelerated, we see that the biggest investment is being made to highly skilled individuals. The ability to develop all kinds of research in line with their abilities and interests seems to be shaped as a state policy, and the investment in the education of top talent in this sense is the shortest, most efficient and most efficient way to develop the country's resources, and, of course, behind the fact that Turkey has not been able to make enough progress in this issue in recent years, there is an important contribution to understanding the equality of opportunity in education as equality in poverty. There is also a systemic resistance to accept that historical and cultural heritage is not an individual but a community, so that some individuals may be different in some ways -- that one may be superior to the others, that one may be different from the others. The lack of expertise in the education of superior talent is also one of the reasons why the parties generally disagree on education goals, the lack of compromises, the lack of scenarios to guide society's future, and the fact that they are clearly discussed and cannot be presented as a concept of compromise scenarios. However, this understanding has now begun to take new and radical steps in the education of completely abandoned and highly skilled individuals. An understanding that the Ignorance Helix surrounds all the talent groups has been abandoned, an active initiative has been launched to prepare appropriate educational environments, to end the cycle of differentiality. And to briefly mention the work done in this framework -- especially when we look at Mr. Minister himself -- where have we come from, there are now 61 institutions of science in 55 provinces, where there are 61 institutions of science, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are, where we are now, where there are now are 61 institutions in 55 provinces, where we are, where we are able to place the education of students who continue primary education in the schools and secondary institutions of education, and in the entire province of education, as well as by developing parallel processes. If we look at the 2002-2012 perspective, we should also state that a 270 per cent development was introduced in the example of the BILSEMs during this short period of time. Again, it is also important to raise educators for highly gifted children. Our various friends, our valued lawmakers, have mentioned, yes, one of the things that defines it is to raise an educator. There are also studies in this framework that have been done in recent years. In the Special Education Department of İstanbul University's Hasan Ali Yücel Faculty of Education, for the first time in Turkey, the Master Science Branch has been established, and since 2002 it has been providing both master's and PhD-level education programmes and contributing to the human resource of Turkey. Another issue: Starting in the 2002-03 school year, the first in the history of the Republic, the Ministry of National Education and the University of Istanbul co-operated with Turkey's first school of primary education, teaching top-of-the-line students. But what do we see? We see that all of these are new studies, new activities, and that they're going to start bearing fruit. Another concern is that a university-based programme for the education of highly skilled students has been implemented by the President of the main science branch of Anadolu University and the University of Turkey with the support of ÜBITAK. This program began in the year 2007-2008 and is already a structure that teaches at the second level of elementary school from the 6th to the 9th grade. In this context, the High Council of Science and Technology, which is headed by our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has also decided to draft the Supreme Intelligence and Talented Individuals Strategy and Approval Plan 2012-2016, which is about to be completed and will be presented by the Ministry at the first meeting of the High Science and Technology Council in 2012. And it's also a first in the history of the republic, so for the first time this country has come up with a strategy plan for its highly skilled children, and the relevant plan will soon be implemented on the basis of educational models for highly skilled individuals in Turkey, recognition and monitoring, human resources and sustainability, as a result of this strategic plan. But it's not just about one ministry, so we can't just view the Ministry of National Education as a focus here. Of course, co-ordination will be in this Ministry because it is the ministry responsible for education, but it will also be successful with the help of multiple partners, such as the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Sports, ÜBITAK, the Ministry of Health, the Turkish Patent Institute, universities, NGOs, and many other institutions. Reaching the goal depends on the power of interagency synergy, and it is undoubtedly the business world that will get the highest added value from the evaluation of our human resources, and in this framework, it is important for the business world to invest in professional technical education, as well as in the training of the top talent. Skills such as problem-solving, analytic thinking, innovation, and resolving the problem with different perspectives will allow these organizations to do their jobs with a greater performance, a greater success, and those skills in this framework are also skills of superior talent. And when we look at it like this -- the needs of problems -- and the need for learning and development -- there's no doubt that the outcome will be profitable on both sides and on the broadest scale. Therefore, the subject of the education of the highly skilled is a subject where science, art, business and universities can co-operate freely in the service of society, which is convenient for interdisciplinary work, and we invite the parties to contribute to the need for that. When we look at what we're doing in Turkey, we're talking about these superior minds, and we're talking about what size we're talking about, what's the position of this country, at the age of 0-24, there are 25 million-something individuals in Turkey, and it's only enough to look at this data alone to see how important it is to see that there are 2 percent of them, so that there are 627,480 highly skilled people -- so that there are almost a number of those small European countries -- who have more than a total population -- in order to see how much of these present and tomorrows are important for editing. If we evaluate human capital correctly, we can also allow each superior talent in the world of knowledge and creativity of the 21st century to contribute effectively and differently to their own field, to the countries and to humanity they were born with. However, we should also remember that when it is abandoned, it is not directed, and there is no opportunity for self-fulfilling, it is also capable of being destructive, self-destructive - that we can squander our greatest wealth with our own hands. These children must be monitored and employed as well as trained by highly skilled individuals. The basic approach, however, is that superior individuals need to be positioned as subjects, not objects of education, to support age, gender, socioeconomic status, independent of all these levels and to develop their abilities. And when we look at the apps of countries to train top talent, we don't actually see a homogeneous structure, there are different applications. So when we look at one end of the line -- including the top talents -- and we can predict the American model here -- the countries that have differentized and individualized education to all their students in the traditional pattern of education, and on the other hand, other than mass education, they have countries that open schools that are unique to the chosen students, and the approach of countries to the superior talent, philosophy, population, and non-existent national property, with their share of education, the level of development, and more importantly, is what they really understand from the concept of opportunity equality, and the concept of equality of opportunity in every field of life, and it is clear that all of our life is going to give us the same approach to the concept of life, with all of life. Today, economic growth does not depend solely on capital. Now, we live in a world where superior brain power and creativity are above material capital, where the concept of positive externality comes forward, using creative thinking in science, technology and other fields, where outputs trigger economic growth, and in other words, we can also talk about the economic importance of superior talent. In economic development, countries use innovation and technology as a golden key to their values, such as history and culture, as well as a multidimensional approach. Creative brain-powered individuals create brands for their country by creating unique outputs, but they cannot be replaced by resources such as the strategic importance of a geographical location, sub-ground and above-ground wealth, as well as the promotion of the education of creative individuals working in countries' universities, factories, labs, and this support is provided by the introduction of appropriate research and educational environments, and, as you know, the ability to create these goals, which are strategically important for a country, such as subterranean and above-ground wealths, but these are stable, these other important strategic powers, human resources, which can be improved and developed, and this ability to determine, and this ability of the ability of the brain, and the ability of the brain, as you know, is also strategical. Therefore, the expansion of a system that allows our highly gifted young people to reveal their own learning powers will be a full social leap forward for our country, and if we want to produce brand products worldwide, here are the Nobel, Pulitzer, Oscar, all of which we call prestigious awards, to be popularized, to be available for the sake of this country, and in order to achieve the profile of a country that has been achieved, this investment is an inevitable necessity for our country, and in order to ensure the equality of opportunities in education and development for each individual, it is diversified, and it is a fundamental, and it is a necessary responsibility to make its own development and learning environments. In light of all these requirements and reasons, effective strategies on the subject must be brought to life immediately when the planet is entering the stage of brain movement, not brain migration, by considering the experience and savings that have been accumulated in the education of the world's superior talent after the 1980s. In this context, good examples of the education of highly skilled individuals worldwide should be examined and created by enriched and diversified training programmes for the social structure of our country and for these models. On the basis of the equality of opportunity, it is also our goal as a modern and leading country, where individuals can move into the future, where they can carry out an educational system based on the benefit of humanity, and in this sense, our ultimate goal is not only to be limited to the national scale, but to make our country a center of attraction, where all the top talents are evaluated by national and universal values, to be able to be a modern and leading member of the country, and to fulfill all of these responsibilities.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0068par0059	Thank you, Mr. Nice. Your time is up, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0067par0061	This motion is beneficial, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0068par0063	First speaker on behalf of the motionholders, Mr. Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0069par0065	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the motion. I salute you all. To be honest, I wish this co-operation was about a lot of things. I think that this common attitude that we're proposing in this research proposal -- the ruling opposition -- may be more important for Turkey's democracy if it develops a similar situation in Turkey's fundamental problems. Here, as all our fellow lawmakers have expressed, it is a common attitude to determine what needs to be done in order for children with a higher level of learning and an early education that is different from their peers in order to improve the benefits of highly gifted, highly intelligent children in society. Of course, we'd like to make some sense of it on this occasion. It's important to identify gifted children, to identify them early, but there's also a situation in which they're talented, math, culture, art, cinema, theater, or science? So it's important to do so according to the field of detection in these areas. The other point is, it's also important to know where children with superior skills will be trained in the matter of education. More often, in metropolitan cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, large cities, schools are opening. After this research proposal, perhaps, after these findings have been made, I hope that the Ministry of National Education will allow this to be opened not only in such metropolitan cities, but in other areas, such as Diyarbakır, Erzurum, Malatya, and other areas, because this is an important issue, children, to take advantage of it. And these gifted children are often taken from their own family, from around them, to another place. There are other challenges here both culturally and socially. And I think it's important to think about it in this respect. Congressmans, of course, it's a good point to think about our children's future, to raise our children as individuals, and to discuss how to bring them to a more effective level in society. So the problem for our disabled children is, let's say, doing work on the future of children who are struggling to study, organizing educational institutions and making arrangements for our highly gifted children. It is this Parliament's duty to do so, but it is also important to see how we look at it from a perspective, from a perspective. In particular, the discussion of the educational system is one of Turkey's main agendas. Now the commission is discussing 4+4+4. And in this approach here, the debate to divide the mandatory education issue into 3 ▪ and create a new system over it has sparked serious debates in Turkey. This bill must be withdrawn according to us. The reason for this withdrawal, rather than content, is that with these circles, let's say with education, with academics, with authors, again, there is a point where education should be turned into this, not discussed with sections that would be affected by the transformation of 4+4+4, but based on the power of the Power of the Power, I have the power of power, I have enough deputies, I can develop this job. When it's in its other dimensions, it's already in its content, and it shows a much more dire situation. There's one thing we've learned in Turkey, in fact, with the AKP's power: democracy is for itself. There is democracy, if we exist, the opinion of the opposition, the proposal is not important for us; it is not only important for the opposition, it is not important for the opinions and suggestions of social structures, educational institutions. In this regard, we really think that it is important to review this educational system, which will concern both young people and children in the coming period, and care for their families. So, Mr. Minister of Education actually, as I just said, it's a different point in the National Security Council before discussing this issue with educational institutions, let's say social environments, affected areas, families. For years, Turkey has suffered this mentality, pulled it out of the mind of September 12th, knowing what military dictatorship means, but yet we open to debate not with experts or Parliament, but again with the National Security Council to determine national education policies. It shows how desperate the situation is. Again, another issue: the equality of opportunity in education, Mr. Congressman, speaking from the AKP Group. This is a very important matter. Yes, in education, all parts of society must take equal advantage of opportunities, but the conditions for equal use of opportunities must be guaranteed by the state. There's no such thing as a serious inequality in education. There are various reasons for this, so let's say that our educational system itself is a problem, let's say that the demand for education in this country is still a problem. The demand for education in the native language is not met; those demanding education in the native language are excluded in this country, being terrorized; this is serious. Again, let's say that this is an important distinction in the decision-making of the gifted children, because many children are often referred to the community as, let's say, "I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know." Even this one itself is a problem, so even in Turkey, children who know their native language and perhaps are skilled in this regard are left out of the system because of the Turkish education system, or have a learning disorder, or are sent to these rehabilitation centres, for example, as children are having difficulty learning. That's one of the reasons for all of this. This is already a problem area. And there's also a major attack on people who want to be educated, who don't take advantage of these opportunities equally, but who want to be educated by their own means. This is precisely where the peace and democracy party is in power, the closing of educational support homes developed within our municipalities. Because I don't think the AKP's government wants to be supported by anyone but themselves, young people, children, or wants them to take advantage of it. Let's say five educational support homes have been closed today in five municipalities from BDP, Batman, Mardin, Siirt, Ağrı, Erzurum and Dersim, Orhan Doğan Education Support House. I don't know if it's the name, it's interesting. Orhan Doğan was a member of parliament at a time. They were pushed out of this Parliament by the coup d'état of March 2nd. Turkey is still in its shameful state, so I think it's actually a bad situation for democracy, which is that the educational support houses that Orhan Doğan has named are also being shut down, and thousands of children are being deprived of this education while the test is just a short time away. Now, here we are, talking about education issues, and here we are talking about high-end, superior children. But the situation itself is dire. So we don't know how much the AKP government will take into account. Really, our education support homes have been shut down on false grounds. This is one of the problems. Of course, everyone here has to stand up to that. If we want to make an adjustment in favor of the children, then it's not acceptable for young people to be involved in this system, this opportunity equality, which is called inequality, to be involved in the race within the system of inequality. Another issue, lawmakers, in fact, is that many of those who have barely taken the test in this country are now under arrest, many of the students who have worked hard to compete in this inequality race, many of the students who have gone to college. There are 500 arrested students, even more so. Still in universities -- Mr. Minister -- because the students protested, because the press made a statement, school administrations investigate before the prosecution has even launched an investigation, and students are suspended from school, and disciplinary action. Now we're coming out of here and we're really discussing an educational system. What kind of country are we in? So if people in universities can't express their demands, young people can't talk about the equality of opportunity if they're being investigated and arrested for expressing their demands, or expelled from school, or the right to education is being taken away, there's no talking about the equality of opportunity here. I think you're either from me or you're from me, or you're going to act like me, or I'm going to give you the right to live, give you the right to education. I think he needs to put an end to his understanding as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0070par0081	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. The second is Mr. Recep Gürkan, Edirne MP. Mr. Gürkan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0085	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the motion. I salute you all. I'd like to start with a word from Confucius. Confucius says that the previous generation determines the fate of a generation, just as we try to do these days. We're trying to determine the fate of the next generation here at the General Assembly, on the one hand, at the top of the National Education Commission. Actually, there are two contrasts. We live together under the roof of the same House, under the roof of the High Assembly, a very positive example, and we live together with a very negative example. With the consensus of all groups in the General Assembly, with their joint proposals, with their supports, with their contributions, with the help of our children, the country's greatest asset, the greatest treasure, whatever we can do in the future to move our country to better tomorrows, bigger horizons, we're all trying to do it. But on the other hand, when we're trying to create this opportunity for our highly gifted children at a rate of two percent to three percent, at a rate that corresponds to two percent, we're trying to get a law on education that concerns 12-13 million children -- no one is sorry, not politics, not opposition, but we're going to talk about the truth -- without consulting anyone, we're trying to get it out by pushing it out. So which of them is true, and which one shall we believe? Which model are we going to present to those young people, those children, those citizens, who are modeling for Parliament, for lawmakers? Last night, as you know, the National Education Commission worked until four in the morning, working again tonight, working again tomorrow night. As a result, the law can be passed in the form of the Justice and Development Party, based on the majority of Parliament. What if he does? So this country, the children of this country, the children of this country, what will they gain from it, what will they gain from it? We call the 21st century the age of knowledge society. We refer to the 21st century as the era in which all human discoveries have taken place in the last twenty and thirty years. But we can't get four political parties together on a generation like education and a country's destiny. The ruling majority is me, and I get what I want out of this Parliament. Whereas the children whose fate we're playing on these days have nothing to do with it, and the parents, the parents, the mothers, the fathers, who are experts in it, and the Minister has just expressed it very well, as he was telling us about his work with the gifted children, he said, "We've done so much convention, we've done so much work, we've done so much work with the experts, we've done so much work with the academics, we've done reports. It's a wonderful thing, I'm proud to be an educator, but we've done the same in a law that concerns all the children of our country. Now, if it's your opposition here, we're prepared to take the blame for this opposition, but without you asking anyone, without asking anyone, you can't bring a proposal with the signature of five groups of vice presidents and you can't even bring a proposal as a bill, and you can't force anyone to accept it, dear friends, it's impossible for anyone to accept it. The offer is not 4, 4, 4, 12, it isn't. The spear won't fit in the sack, it won't. Look, so wrong, so hasty, so unprepared an offer has been made to Parliament. From the beginning, we will direct the girls to open education. It was said, "Men's children to the industry, to the garage." It was then looked: "We are indeed making grave mistakes." Now we've moved it to the 3rd and 4th. But it's not open education we're disseminating. This is exactly what it says in the proposal clause: education, knitting, or common education in middle school. You see, when you say national education legislation and general practice around the world, public education centers point to this place. So what are we going to do when the kid who doesn't go to middle school, high school that we're trying to make mandatory, he goes to public school, he goes to reed school, he's got a sewing class, he's got a embroidery course, he's got a cane course, he's got a certificate, he's got a degree, he's got a degree, he's got a degree, what do we do? The definition of common education is defined in the legislation, in 1739. The government is trying to change the 26th article of 1739.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0072par0091	Mr. Secretary, he listens very carefully!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0092	Mr. Secretary is a little tired from last night.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0073par0093	Don't worry, I'm listening on both sides.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0094	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0074par0095	So he can do two jobs together!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0096	Now, while we're making a law that concerns such a large audience, I ask you, for God's sake, let each think of his own child, put his own child in his heart, isn't that a question for the experts? So we're going to make a law on economics, and we're going to ask the economists when we're making a law on education and education?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0074par0097	Then the deputy minister doesn't listen, he listens to Mr. Recep!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0098	Now, Mr. Secretary, we were a little overextended at the commission last night. That's why I'm saying we shouldn't be too hard on him here.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0075par0099	I'm smiling, so relax. I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0100	No, Minister, I am comfortable.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0076par0101	Then you're not listening to the lady. You're listening to both of them?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0102	Your Minister -- one of our representatives at the commission said so last night -- since both the lobes of your brain work, you can listen to him and me, of course. Mr. Secretary, dear friends, once again we ask you this. Please withdraw this offer of 4, 4, 4 which you have brought in, which is unlike any other in the world, by the way it's prepared, by the way it's brought in. Let's call the unions. We'll invite you, and you too, Congressman, to contribute. If you have children -- which you do -- you can contribute. This 4,4,4 concerns everyone, not Ahmetίi, Mehmetίi, Hussainίi, but everyone. Look, we're gonna take five-year-olds to first grade without any pedagogic principles, no education, no science principles, no physical improvements. This method was tried in the 80s. Rememberers know that in Vehbi Dinçer's time, six-year-old application was applied as a pilot in this country for four years, and all of those children have failed in school life with a lot of psychological trauma. Now, next year, we're going to put about 2 1/2 million children in the same classrooms over 60, 72, and 72 months to study first class. All of these children will curse us tomorrow, and they will curse us, and we will lose our children, who are the most valuable asset in this country, just because someone wants to put them in a pattern according to their own ideology. We don't have the right, we don't have the authority.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0077par0105	They don't have children at that age, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0106	Make three children, the Prime Minister said.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0077par0107	But they don't have kids that age.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0108	Or they'll do it, so they'll listen to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0077par0109	Will they consent to this abuse of their children as parents?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0110	Dear friends, when the law of education comes to 4.4.4 Parliament, I hope that reason prevails, fingers don't work, consciences work, opinions work, hearts work.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0077par0111	You're waiting for nothing, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0078par0112	Your heart...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0071par0113	We know your hearts too, my friend, and we know yours. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0079par0116	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu is a member of Kahramanmarash MP. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0080par0120	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to you on the Parliamentary research you've made to help our country's development and to make it possible for the children of superior intelligence and talent that we believe is necessary for our country to have a more prosperous future, and to contribute to our country's development, I respectfully salute the High Assembly. Dear lawmakers, a study concluded that a baby born with superior intelligence reacts more to auditory and visual stimuli than normal, needs less sleep, and shows facial expressions seen in older children. They are more than 98 per cent of a randomly selected group of their own age, which is about 2 per cent of the individuals that make up society. Therefore, it is vital that children of superior intellect be noticed at an early age and brought up in a frame in line with their abilities. Special skills in superior or special children, intelligence, creativity, art, leadership capacity or academic fields... they are quick and easy to learn and test ideas and hypotheses, they can use science and technical angles, and they can rely on them; they have a lot of powers to choose right and wrong, and they have a lot of time to understand and keep things in mind, and they have a lot of lessons. This should be a structure that defines and defines the policy of our children's detection, education and monitoring systems in a clear way, providing institutional and continuity. We can sort out the desires and needs of children with superior minds as well as children with superior minds who need to deal with physical activities. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers should be allowed to deal with many physical activities with other children, such as running, jumping, jumping, climbing, swinging on swings, balling, football, basketball, volleyball, swimming, as well as sports activities. In addition to training intelligent children to develop abilities, they need proper opportunities. For example, the means and means of improving the abilities of a pre-school child's superior mind will begin with his going to kindergarten. The child faces various activities and opportunities in kindergarten where he can demonstrate his abilities and display his physical strength. High-minded children need to communicate with children with different age groups and different classes, with similar traits and abilities. Therefore, they must be allowed to participate in the study of classes and clubs at the school. High-minded kids don't like to be instructed. If they are expected to act according to instructions given to them, they express their reactions in various ways. One of the underlying reasons for their negative approach to directives is their potential leadership ability. Children of this nature also need people or institutions that they can apply for and consult with when they need guidance. In order to get more information, children with superior intelligence need the variety of resources in the school library. Since intelligent children can follow their studies without effort, they cannot earn the habit of studying long - term, regular, and planned lessons during their studies. Hence, they need long - term regular guidance from the beginning of their education. They need to be educated in a school of physical environments and conditions where they can raise themselves, display their abilities, value their opinions, take into account their efforts, and apply their thoughts. Mr. President, we can list some of the problems that have been opened by the Ministry of National Education in science and arts to meet the needs of highly intelligent children as follows: The first problem with science centers is that they don't have regulations and they're still governed by direction. That's why the director of the science arts center is having trouble from time to time. First of all, other teachers who are certified teachers from other schools in the Ministry of National Education have been assigned because they are very busy applying for students and the tests that will be conducted here require expertise, but since science centers are not in any regulations concerning the Ministry of National Education, they are not paid for the examinations they have done to these teachers. This prevents the examinations from being conducted in a healthy manner. Many scientific and art centres in the country receive and pay fees from governors for these trials, but when the department of national education asks the ministry about this issue, unfortunately, the ministry responds negatively, and there are many casualties. In this case, INSEM executives have to pay these fees because they have to choose students by applying the examination. Another problem with science arts centers is that after studying in elementary schools and upper secondary schools where students are registered, they continue to be informed two or three days a week. The school's morning student can continue in the afternoon, the afternoon student can continue in the morning, and the full - time student can continue in the evening. At this point, it is not possible for students with a full-time school to continue the evening group during the week because of the difficulty of transportation. In many counties, science and art centres are conducted on the weekend by the National Education Ministry, but also by the governorships in the province. At this point, science arts centres applying for an official letter to the Ministry of National Education for the weekend education receive negative answers. It puts both scientists, directors, artists, and scientists of the future in a difficult position to get special education in the area where special talented students are gifted. In addition, in many cities, only one science arts centre exists and the transportation of scientific arts centers is difficult, which makes it necessary for students to move to these institutions via service, but the routes carried by students are not like other primary schools and high schools, so student parents are asked for service prices as service fees. Some student parents can't send their children because they can't afford these prices. The difficulty of transportation to scientific arts centers is evident in the student's lack of soundness of education programmes, the lack of physical resources of many centers, both physics, chemistry, biology, computers, and similar properties and labs. In view of all these negativeities, raising future leaders and scientists from institutions, unfortunately, our ministry is only burdened with idealist teachers because of its indifference. As soon as possible, both our students and our teachers need to be resolved. I salute your grand delegation with such feelings and thoughts as the benefit of our motion to investigate.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0081par0142	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoglu. The fourth speaker is Mr. Halide İncekara, İstanbul MP. Mr. Tüykara, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0146	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, today we're talking about a serious matter. In 2006, I was perceived as talking about the cream or cream of the cake when I talked to my friends at my party and their superior skills with the opposition. What about now, when we've got so much to worry about? God has already given them a blessing, smart people, smart people -- they can solve their own problems. And I've been trying to tell them everywhere since 2006 when my tongue turned. Of course, in the meantime, NGOs and universities have the same zeal. Yes, we had our priorities, but unfortunately we neglected that this was one of our priority problems. We had motions for the research commission last semester, but when the term closed, he became a tough guy in the new era, and with you, I think, with the motions of the four parties, I hope this research commission will be established today. Why are we talking about children who are so talented or what we call intelligent? If we don't talk, what's missing in our lives? My intuition is that, in 2006-2007, when I was working on the growing tendency of violence in children, what I saw in my conversations with children who were forced to visit in prisons, then, in the second period, in the 23rd term, in the missing children, and in the commission work on eliminating children's victims, we realized that, yes, children who are talented and intelligent are suffering a great loss. ▪ What do you mean? When everyone in the class talks, they understand quickly, they can solve math problems quickly. I've heard those words a lot, but I can assure you, it's like feeding an eight-year-old boy, a 12-year-old boy, a six-month-old child, baby food. The boy you can't detect, can't see, can't meet his mental and spiritual need, alone in society, friendless, friendless, non-communicational, strangers in his class, they either snore, snore, or give him too many compliments. What about the moms and dads in the house? Rest assured, I know the parents of a very gifted child who have been treated for depression because when you can't answer your child's questions, when you can't speak your language, there's a very bad circle of relationships in your home. These kids are very compassionate and they've developed a sense of justice. Their early perceptions, their hunches, because it's too early for them to learn, are quickly making friends with older ones. So, in the meantime, if you don't merge with the education force and the child, they become a crime in the street. Leadership behavior, pre-intuitiveness, the fact that they can think faster than anyone else, can lead them to crimes that most of us may not even think about. We don't desire them at all. Well, there's something even more painful. I'm very sorry to see the population and numbers of children because in my country, I'm buying technology from countries that have as many populations as the numbers that say "skill or genius," can you imagine? Your children, who you call superior talent and intelligence, have all the age population of those countries, and we go and buy drones from them, and we buy technology from them, and they laugh at him. Here, if you want to solve the problems of a society, we need to give these children a higher priority than these people, who have the ability to solve problems quickly, have the ability to solve them, maybe more than we do. When we set up this research commission, hopefully, we won't be doing them any favors when we take out the laws that define these children that facilitate this education, we'll be doing 70 million favors to this community. Someone just told me, especially in Anatolia, that children's rates are higher because their ability to solve problems are growing faster as they fight the problem more often. For example, I'll give you an example: I don't want to name him, he started speaking at nine months old, he learned English by watching a TV channel at the age of two, he started playing the violin at the age of six, and he's interested in astronomy. He describes himself as intelligent, respectful, loving. If you see them, they're little, they're this big, but if you're worth it, they're golden children, they're golden children if you're interested; if you're not interested, they're in the cells of prisons, unfortunately, they're in other worlds. Yes, I think it's in our debt to take care of the education of our highly gifted and intelligent children. Well, if God had given intelligent children to these families, let them teach their children. Unfortunately, the education of these children is not so cheap, nor is it easy to reach them. There are private foundation and association schools in Istanbul, or several places in Anatolia, but notice this: I can't say a few things here on the stand. Some of our highly gifted and intelligent children, unfortunately, may also have a chance to be used for ulterior motives. I don't even want to think about who put these kids in a position to serve. Don't ask me, "Who are the adopted ones?" Don't ask me, "How?" The ones who were taken from the family and taken away to study... because they really are a treasure. When it's processed, it's all a diamond, a jewel, but when it's processed in a different way, they can become very good thieves, very good pickpockets, or very good computer criminals. Yes, most of my friends have described children who are highly gifted and intelligent. They have a lot of vocabulary, excellent memory, curiosity, maturity for their age, justice and compassion... Look, it's always been said in politics in recent years that politics has a leading problem. There's a staff problem in politics. There's a leading problem, there's a staff problem. Here, because we can't handle these children, these generations. When we raise them well, I think there's going to be a lot of Recep Tayyip Erdogans in them.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0083par0155	There's a smell of burning oil!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0156	Yeah! [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Yeah, well, I don't want to be too busy at this hour. I just made a bet with my friends, so don't fill up the minutes...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0084par0160	It's funny how you can spot a single person.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0161	Then finish early. They said.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0084par0162	You must have put a lot of effort into it.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0163	I, by the way, just don't think that responsibility belongs to the Ministry of National Education. The Ministry of National Education is a ministry that ultimately gives us subcontractorial training. Our Ministry of Family and Social Policy owns the children's rights and rights. I think it's the Department of Labor and Social Policy that should stand on one side of all the proposals you've discussed in those commissions, because it's the Ministry that's responsible for the child's law and rights. In this regard, I think the SEC should work in cooperation with the DPT, the Ministry of National Education, and TÜBİTAK. So why are we setting up a research commission? Is the Ministry of National Education not smart enough? Just so they can get together, think about it, do it. No, unfortunately, sometimes they don't have enough brains, sometimes they can't afford to cooperate, sometimes it's very difficult inside public institutions, but the research commission provides one thing: once, when members of all parties are there, there's debate, consultation, consultation, call on the academics, the ministry's friends... a joint mind is forming, and the results are coming out of that, and I've seen that when I've been president of the two research commissions, all opposition parties, especially children and education, are showing a really good compromise, and we're getting very good results because the research commission results are alive today. Of course, you may not be pleased with all of them, and I respect them, but I think we're getting better results from what we're doing in the majority. For him, I think this research commission will be one of the most important, most effective, most useful and useful activities we've done since 2002. Thank you very much, and I wish you good luck.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0085par0167	Mr. President, it smells burning, let's call the fire department!
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0168	I've got seven seconds...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0086par0169	He said, "It smells like burnt oil."
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0170	What?
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0086par0171	The smell of burnt oil...
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0082par0172	Oh, the smell of oil... it could be, I wouldn't mind. Have a leader like me, and you can butter him up.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0087par0174	Mr. Tüykara, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0088par0175	Twenty years ago, you were saying those words about someone else, Mrs. Halide. So we know about them.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0087par0176	The next speaker is Mr. Kerim Özkul, Congressman of the Conium. Mr. Özkul, come in. Isn't Mr. Özkul here, sir? Mr. Tülay Selamoğlu, Ankara MP. Mr. Selamoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0089par0182	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, the AK PARTY. At this point, all descriptions and adjectives of our special talented children have been described, but these children, as Plato called them, are golden children. The golden children are something that is very difficult to live with. As someone who has experienced such an experience, at first their families are in serious trouble because of their insatiable curiosity. You can see the power of words between the ages of 0 and 2, in him, in common voices, in terms of meaning, but this brings the question, why? Why is the same thing described in two different words, or why are two identical words used in separate items or adjectives? Now, from now on, between the ages of three and five, believe me, it's a terrible time for families. Between the ages of three and five, you're asked all kinds of questions you can think of. And when these questions are asked, the parents think, "If God wills, I can come out from where I know, I hope I can answer that question, I hope I can find out soon. There was no more Internet in my experience, and the Internet was a huge support for these families because you don't know where it's going to come from. You need to work again to tell a three-year-old about nuclear fusion, and you need to be able to tell him. You don't understand how these kids are so curious, but you have to satisfy their curiosity, and when you don't, it's too much trouble for them. And when you satisfy their curiosity, this time they're having problems in social life, in school. This time, he has to force himself to adapt to it, or to adapt to it; it's really hard. But there's only one historical point in assessing its superior potential: Enderun. When we look at the structure of the world's first practice, the rare schools and the rarest schools, the Ottomans took all the talented special children here at the time and used them in government administration and science and art. But you don't have to do anything to increase the potential of a particularly intelligent child; its curiosity and search raises it, but it's the worst point of lockdown. If the child can't answer a question in the mind of a child with a particular math mind or a higher science mind, he can start having trouble sleeping, you have to take drugs, but they really wear the family down. Dr. Wu-Tien Wu. The president of the World Council of Superior Talented Children, says that the older child is different from his peers. When he grows up, he will become either a useful scientist like Einstein or a dictator like Hitler. According to Wu Nah, the education of a child of superior intelligence and talent is very important; with the right training, these children can do things that will lead to human history, and wrong education can bring them into the world. Master Cemil Meric describes the difference between a madman and a genius as a fine line. We know that Ibn Sina is one of the most important of those golden children who have ever lived because she is a ten-year-old medical scholar, but as a golden boy, Ibn Sina is not a very good musician. Picasso is considered a highly gifted man in the art field, but he has no sense of mathematics. Mozart is considered the child genius of music, but he can't paint, mathematics or physics or medicine, he doesn't understand anything. These skills are uniquely developed. The important thing is to find the characteristics of these children, the golden children, to satisfy them, to make them useful both to the country and to the world. With the Law of the Great Children issued during the Republic, we began sending special talented, talented children abroad to study in art, but it didn't have much impact on our country, on the development of art, because there were no comebacks. Now, you know that there are twenty-nine scholars. The twenty-nine I.D., of course, is not enough, but the first effort, believe me, is happening in these times. Now, it really saddens us that we're late in these programs when America is paying attention to children with superior talent, while Germany, Russia, Israel, is doing serious programs on the subject. For special programs to be implemented, hopefully, we'll do everything we can to make sure that our talented, rare children become leaders of the future, scientists and intellectuals, artists. This will begin with the establishment of this commission, but we will not waste this wealth, this national fortune. There are so many interesting questions that I want to tell you one of my memories. Watching TV, he realizes that you need oxygen for fire in my experience. He asked me where the oxygen was. We had to talk about the atmosphere, we talked about the world, we talked about gravity, we talked about centrifugal forces, all the information we could find. And he said, "Well, is oxygen free in space?" We said, "No." So he had to be confined somewhere and needed oxygen for the fire. He said, "Well, then how does the sun burn if there is no atmosphere in the sun?" That's when we had to learn about nuclear fusion from someone and get a scientist to tell him about it, because he's starting to bother him because he's looking at the sun and he's just asking this question: How does it burn? It's always the question. How does the sun burn when you wake up and wake up in the morning and sleep at night? We have very difficult, very precious children. We're going to raise our golden children in a much more advanced scientific environment, in an art environment, hopefully. But our children, we believe, who grow up in this environment, will provide the future of both our country and the future of the world. Thank you very much. I believe there is a great need for this commission to be established, and I expect your support for these studies. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0090par0197	Thank you, Mr. Selamoglu. On behalf of the motionholders, the last speaker is Mr. Yalova MP, Mr. Popeye Coshkun. Mr. Coshkun, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0091par0201	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I've made a commitment to a motion for research on the evaluation and employment of intelligent children, and I salute your High Council. We're having a really heavy week of training this week. With the bill proposed by our National Education Commission and the evaluation of our brilliant children, a very important topic in the General Assembly, I hope the positive and good results will come out, and I think our great Parliament will contribute greatly. Dear lawmakers, the most serious work on the detection of promising children has been done by science and art centres in our country. Science and art centers have continued with studies such as identifying students who continue elementary school with their teacher's proposals and briefly running this definition process as group screening and summing it up as an interview. In these centres where students are only tested for evaluations, there is an assessment of talent. This has led to the use of talented students for artistic and manual skills. A total of 62 students are educated at the centre of science and art in Turkey. About 11 million elementary students are not even half the target population. On the other hand, scientific studies give at least 5% of the highly intelligent, talented individual ratios of developed countries. If Korea is found to be between 10 per cent and 15 per cent, Korea is at the top of the countries providing special education for most of these students. Korea's access to these students was carried out by a law in the educational system. In Turkey, there is about 40 per cent of private education for the identified students. However, this training is not complete; it is part-time at science and art centres. Precious lawmakers, the only institution in Turkey that provides special education for gifted students is the Special Turkish Education Foundation Faith Türkesh Private High School. In the institution where full-time and highly successful practices are conducted, promising students are allowed to receive a good education. Turkey's quick increase in education institutions would be an important turning point. Scientific research talks about an area open to development that children can develop by interacting with their environment, interacting with adults and other children around them, beyond scientific capacity. Therefore, social and environmental factors are of great importance in the detection and education of successful, promising, highly intelligent children. The individuals that make up society have different levels of intelligence. About 95 percent of these are made up of individuals of normal intelligence level. The remaining five per cent are estimated to be made up of 2 per cent of superior individuals and 3 per cent of individuals belonging to the lower intelligence group. Only 1.5 percent of the average human brain capacity can be used. Precious lawmakers say that the first four years of human life are the most critical period of mental development, and in the first four years, educational warnings are crucial and increase intelligence, and 33 percent of the school's success by the age of eighteen can be explained by gains between zero and six. In Finland, which is considered the most advanced countries in education, the detection of high-minded students who have a promising future in Finland is yet to come when children are three years old. Thus, it is possible that he will be subject to a teaching process in line with his abilities and trends that have been detected at that age. Honourable lawmakers, it must be the most efficient, most rational use of this resource in order to raise quality in education to the level of developed countries, our power and responsibility, which still divides the largest share of education in the 2012 budget. In this regard, a more effective collaboration and coordinated work should be made with all the partners of the training. Together, we must address our solutions, not our problems. In the new era, we will present our nation's work that will bring equality of opportunity and will also take advantage of their opportunities. The young population in our country is more than 11 million and 500,000. As the young population in Europe rapidly declines, our youth force is becoming a regional opportunity as work and labor force fall seriously. Honourable lawmakers, students with barriers to private education schools and class programmes, are prepared with an approach aimed at providing them with competencies to continue their studies in normal schools with their peers. If financial support is provided as part of the equality of opportunity, it is essential to develop a method for assessing abilities, just as we have also developed a method to qualify with the research proposal we've submitted. At 90.98 per cent in primary school, the net schooling rate rose to 98.41 per cent in 2010-2011 education and teaching. In this school year, 99 per cent are targeted. The Strategic Plan was intended to complete 100 per cent in 2014. In 2002, net schooling rates reached 69.33 per cent in the 2010-2011 school year, at 50.57 per cent in 2002. Our power and ministry have continued by increasing interest in education and education through successful studies and has opened the way for the promised, superior children, and our normal children. These students who define elementary school with the help of science and art centres are generally admitted to science schools. With insufficient guidance and direction for the undersmart individuals who complete secondary schools of secondary school in science, these students are directed to more popular professions than in areas where they will succeed. With the right guidance as well as the proper application of the educational system, these students will make an important contribution to the development of our country. It should not be considered that our brilliant children will only contribute to the national educational institution. New jobs should be opened to the labor markets and jobs of our promising children. In fact, the skills to shed light on a new sector need to be discovered. For him, the joint work of our ministries, such as the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Finance, Development, Youth and Sports, our Ministry of Science and Technology, will take significant distances. Dear lawmakers, we believe that we will have discovered both our youth and our children, who will shed light on both the age and the age before it, in the scope of the investigation. Except for medicine and certain professions, we'll make sure they grow and run in every field. In these feelings, I'd like to thank you for your support for the research motion, and give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-06sit04spe0092par0217	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Congressmans, negotiations on parliamentary research motions have been completed. I will now submit to your votes on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation: those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused to accept it... have been accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission to conduct the parliamentary investigation will be formed from 17 members: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the term of the commission is three months from the date of the President, Vice President, Speaker and Clerk's election: those who agree... those who do not accept... are accepted. I submit to your votes that the commission can work outside Ankara if necessary: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, in accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (March 7th) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 13 o'clock on Wednesday (March 7th). I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you.
