tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Ruzzar Demirel, an Eskişehir MP who asked for a statement about the Crimean exile. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Tomorrow is May 18th, the anniversary of the great Crimean exile, a day of mourning for us. I'd like to share a few words with you about today. I'd like to start with a human being, a man who builds civilizations, has brains, thinks, develops science, develops technology. Science, technology is developing, the world is changing, societies are moving forward, but this progress is not always for the benefit of man. Here are some of the things that are not good for the human being. Some of them are not only targeting a human, but also targeting a nation, a society. Among them was a great contribution to world culture, a large part of the Turkish community known as the world's most peaceful communities, and the Crimean Turks also received their share. With the great exile of the 18th century, nearly 1.5 million Crimean Turks had to travel to many parts of the world, exiled from their homeland. On the 18th of May of 1944, Stalin and his men raided all the villages in Crimea at midnight and told them: "You are leaving immediately without taking anything to remind them of their homeland, but Stalin and his men were not allowed to take anything with them. The Crimean Turks carried the smell of their homeland inside them, in their lungs, in their tongues, and they traveled with their homeland all these years. That is why our surviving descendants, who survived this great genocide, met in the white lands of the Republic of Turkey, the only independent Turkish state in the world at that time. All Turks have come to Turkey for unity, to Turkey, to the white land, as said our fellowman, Ismail Bey Gaspara, who proposed his thesis of the only army, but as long as we were here, as long as we settled here, we never forgot about Crimea, what happened in Crimea, and what happened today. In such a period, four of our descendants were detained by Ukrainian police on May 15, 2012; Rinat Shaymardanov, Vasvi Abduraimov, Rustem Halilov and Ayder Mustafayev are still being held in custody by Ukrainian police. From here, I ask the Foreign Minister himself to make an effort to end the arrests of our descendants with a communication with the Ukrainian government. One of the most concrete indications that the exile during this genocide was intended for death is that the undisclosed Crimean Turks, forgotten in the village of Karit, were to be cast overboard by ships off the Black Sea. Here are the two verses of Numan Çelebi Jahan, who sang songs and anthems and founded the People's Republic of Crimean and wrote the lyrics of the Crimean Turkish Assembly today: I promised, I promised to die for the people, To know and see and wipe away the tears of my people. Every May 18th, we mourn the exile of Crimea. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0003par0019	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The second statement outside the agenda is from Mr. Aylin Nazlıaka, the Ankara MP who asked for a comment on May 19th Youth and Sports Day. Here you go, Mr. Nazlıaka.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0004par0024	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for the Memorial, Youth and Sports Festival of Ataturk, May 19th. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, May 19 is the day of a nation's resistance; May 19 is the day of the change of the fate of Anatolia; May 19 is the day of Turkey's struggle against imperialism by the Turkish people; and May 19 is the day when the war of freedom begins with its women, with its men, with its youth, with its elders. For him, May 19 is the day when the foundations of the secular, democratic, bright Republic of Turkey are laid. The Great Leader of May 19th is the birthday of the great revolutionary Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. In the 1930s, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk went on a tour of Asia Minor and met one of our women in the village, and how old are you? On what date were you born? This woman said she was born in 1919. When Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our Great Leader, said, "Are you sure?" I'm sure of it, the woman who didn't know who she was. My birthday is the day that Ataturk went up to Samsun because I had not lived before. This woman is no more than Satı Woman, the first Ankara MP in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Therefore, May 19 is actually the birthday of a nation, of the Turkish nation, dear friends. Dear MPs Mustafa Kemal Ataturk founded the Republic of Turkey and entrusted the republic to the young. My hope is in youth. He must have seen it today. He said that he also gave advice to young people in Hitabesi, who said: "In the circumstances of ignorance, deception and even treachery, you have an obligation to possess the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Turkey." This statement, unfortunately, is now being interpreted by government spokesman by the government's spokesman as a sign, which I'm afraid. What kind of environment are we dealing with today? Think of a Ministry of National Education, who is being sued for the Memorial Youth and Sports Festival of 19 May: Think of a prime minister who wants to raise his young people; again, think of a government spokesman who made a comment about youth, saying, "Is it the Ayat?" Unfortunately, this is what our youth faces today, dear friends, and I would like to address the entire Turkish youth, the youth Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, entrusted with the Republic of Turkey: My dear young men, please, remember the Hitabesi of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to Youth, and Bursa Nutku, and hold the values of the republic, the symbols of the republic, to the end. Remember, those who set out not to rest will never, ever tire. With these feelings, I congratulate our nation's 19 May Ataturk, Memorial, Youth and Sports Day, and in the coming times, a modern Turkey, a progressive Turkey, a light, free, human rights-respecting Republic of Turkey, wish to express to you once again that I have been burned in the face of the days when we could celebrate the May 19th festivals.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0005par0031	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mud MP Demir Çelik, who asked for the name of Earth's Mother Language Day. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0006par0035	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you with respect and love. The native language or language is interpreted as the first generation of human rights that a human was born with. The mother tongue is the freedom of a people. Language is also a subject that needs to be developed, raised, updated, and moved to an age - old point. The freedom of language, in that respect, is the constitutional, legal, and legal framework of everyday life, education from daily life, communication, publishing, freedom of speech and freedom of speech, and any political and social status. The language, which is the most fundamental characteristic of God's gift to us, to humans, to people, to people, to people, to people, to people, to people, to people, to people, to people, to this day, thousands, tens of thousands, tens of thousands of years, from the history of history, from the first coming out of mankind, to this day, by collecting, by collecting, by artistic, political, cultural, and social life, and by this day, many of them have been pressured, and are not forgotten in some 6,000 different phonetic voices, to different grammars and dialects. The human being, at the same time, is not acceptable at a human point, if the basic characteristic of the Creator's gift to us is now destroyed by nationalist showen waves. In this respect, like the common heritage of mankind, the language, such as culture, is also a subject that requires a sensitivity that will enable mankind to be raised, developed, and expressed in artistic, political, cultural areas. In this way, an opportunity for modern-day nation unit states to bring happiness to mankind but not to any language, to any identity, to every people, to the democratized, quality of existing states and content of every color, every flower, every language, every identity, to find itself, to develop, to grow itself in the artistic, cultural, religious and social field is a task that today's universal law puts on governments, societies. In a process where we are on the eve of making a democratic, civil constitution, in particular in Kurdish, to allow those people, who are pre-empt of being citizens, to exercise their rights to be equal, free citizens, to have these languages removed from their mothers, to develop phonetic sounds in all kinds of areas, especially social and cultural, to remove obstacles in education and public use, to allow them to improve themselves, to use them in a social situation, if any of us can use them in a social situation. And that should be the priority of the House, which has a role and a role in projecting its public will to the public, above everyone and every institution. Because it's from God; it's from humanity; it's the most important thing that we have inherited from history; it's that we need to grow, to develop, to give respect.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0007par0040	Thank you, Mr. Steel. I'll promise our friends who've been in the system for a minute, in order. Mr. Erdemir, please.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0008par0045	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have established 155 countries in the world today, their national youth policies, and 168 countries have established young co-ordination structures. Unfortunately, Turkey remains one of the few countries around the world who do not have a national youth council and comprehensive youth policies. It must not be forgotten that young people are today's partners, not just individuals to whom the future will be entrusted. unemployed youths, labourers, students, disabled young people, arrested young people, housewives and LGBT young people are now waiting for the social state to develop policies for them. Young people who aren't seen want to be seen now. May 19th of May, all of our citizens celebrate the Memorial Youth and Sports Day.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0007par0047	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0009par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to approach your intermediary with both information and a warning point to the government. Not that the Minister is here, but there's a Minister representing the government, so please write it down. I told you yesterday, the loan rates at the Agriculture Bank have been down a lot, our farmers are very vulnerable. Last year, the Egyptian anniversary was given 400-something liras; this year it was reduced to 300-something liras; cotton, the same way, the wheat, the watermelon, the same way. So our farmer who bought $100,000 last year only gets 50,000 lira loans this year. Our farmers have suffered a great deal in this regard. Please, a study has to be made to make a new arrangement on this matter. Second, the wheat harvest will begin, and there is no explanation for the price of the TMO, whether or not he will buy wheat? There is no explanation for these matters. Our farmers are looking forward to it, so please let the government do the same. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0010par0055	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0011par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. I offer my condolences to our soldiers who were killed in the treacherous terrorist attack in the four-way district of Hatay, and to their family, the Turkish Armed Forces, and our nation. The AKP is as responsible for the spilled martyr blood as the PKK. Because one of them doesn't have anti-politics, and the other one doesn't. AKP Power, Oslo, Imralı, Habur is a disabled government. Recently, the AKP has conducted a roll call to add amnesty treason to this apology to the terrorists. The AKP is confused, incoherent and unaware of what to do with terrorism. It is due to the crack of the AKP's national artery. It would be in our nation's best interest to have power present the right direction and strong will to fight terrorism as soon as possible. I wish that he would wake up from the ignorance of his power, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0012par0061	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0013par0064	Mr. President, thank you. There's a misunderstanding in society and the press. We, the Republican People's Party, are in favor of providing food safety from farm to farm, school milk, school apples, and even school nuts. We know this milk is distributed in difficult conditions. The problem with long-lived milk begins when the ring of the cold chain is broken. He needs to keep the school milk going by keeping an eye on the cold chain. We need to spread the example of Izmir Tire Milk Cooperative across the country to pasteurized milk, which is cheaper later on. Tomorrow in Burdur, there is a record of drinking milk. As lawmakers of power and opposition, I invite all of you and our press, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0014par0067	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0015par0070	Mr. President, during the AKP, Malatya, the best water in the world, was contaminated. Close to 100,000 people in the world who probably didn't show any example had diarrhea in Malatya. Now again, the tests by the State Health Directorate in the district, towns and villages of Malatya have shown that the water is broken. Drinking water from fountains, schools, mosques, running water, bacteria and coli microbe, invite disease. Malatians face very dangerous diseases, such as typhoid, diarrhea, diesel and cholera, hepatitis. Malatians should not be allowed to get sick in public. I want the waters restored immediately, and I urge the authorities to be sensitive. Also, 22 children were milked yesterday in Gökçe village of Gökçe, in the District of Doğanyol, Malatya Province, Turkey. I also condemn those who corrupt this milk.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0014par0072	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0016par0075	Football is fun, a discharge vehicle. It's best to live each event on its own. Something that amuses you shouldn't be the tool of a fight. What happened after the Galatasaray-Fenerbahçe match didn't fit that size, the vehicles were burned, the shops were set on fire, the place turned into a war zone. There was the same footage at the Tripoli-Fenerbahçe game. What's worse, after the events, was the explanations of the Tripoli administration. The administration described the events as a justified response to injustice. Looking at things with these glasses is legitimizing fighting, violence. Is that how you react? What injustice has been wronged by hitting and breaking? Sports are gentlemanly. That's why we're talking about sportsmanship. It's the psychology of society that people who run the community should never neglect. People get bolder when they're in the crowd, they think their actions are lost in the crowd, and they can turn into a monster in the provocative atmosphere of the crowd. The crowd gives you a sense of strength, a feeling that you're not alone. It's a psychological condition that opens doors to all kinds of rapes. If club presidents neglect this psychology, they'll be in any kind of fight. And all our teams and our people will see the damage. Club managers have a lot of responsibility when football gets like this. People fight when they're fighting.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0014par0077	Mr. Özdağ, thank you. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0017par0080	Thank you. As a member of the Crimean race, in the 68th year of May 18 of exile, I pray for God's mercy on our relatives, to be filled with trains and to be slaughtered by hundreds of thousands of our descendants. And I curse those who slay. This is where I greet Mustafa Abdulcemil Crimeanoğlu, who was able to live in this exile at six months old today. I salute this person, known to the public as Mustafa Cemiloglu, who is the Ukrainian MP of the Crimea Tatar National Assembly, who is unarmed, who continues to fight without anyone's nose bleeding. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0018par0084	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0019par0087	Mr. President, good lawmakers, three armed officers of the armed forces have been killed and killed this morning as a result of a terrorist organization shooting a unit of Turkish Armed Forces in Kuzulu district of Hatay. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, I ask for healing for the wounded, my condolences to the relatives of our martyrs, our nation, the Turkish Armed Forces, and once again I invite the government to serve in order to prevent terrorism. Today is May 17, Saturday, May 19th Youth and Sports Day. Ninety - three years ago, we launched the Battle of Salvation on May 19, 1919, and gave him a Salvation War as a model for the history of the world. Today, in the face of an understanding that wants to shadow this holiday, this Saturday our nation will enjoy and celebrate this holiday in a much stronger way. With this faith and thought, I celebrate the Youth and Sports Day of our nation, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0018par0089	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0020par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I celebrate Galatasaray's championship. I want to say that it is not possible to frame what happened inside and around Saraçoglu on the evening of May 13th. A number of partisans, manipulative circles, including Mr. Prime Minister in the first place, and pens covered in grudges, have declared those who had their hearts set on the yellow blue club guilty. The club's statement stressed that Fenerbahçe fan has shown absolutely no reaction to rival team athletes during and after the match, regarding events following the Galatasaray match. "The security forces have given the example of not being able to conduct community psychology properly, as a result of one-on-one quarrel with our fans and dialogues, unfortunately the situation has reached this point," he said, referring to the police's intervention method. I was there that night, and I'll sign under that statement without a doubt for a second. Everyone in Saraçoglu on that day will share the same thought. I'd like to publicly condemn the attack on the police and the environment by some fans. I'd like to condemn the gas attack on children, women and men, before and after the game. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0021par0098	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0022par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. I pray to God for the mercy of our 3 Turkish Armed Forces, who lost their lives in the fight against PKK terrorists in the Fourways district of Hatay, and the head of all my countrymen and our nation. I call on the AKP to give up the talks with the PKK and fight the necessary battles in a serious fight. The second issue is to be made clear by the government in the cases of border smuggling in Uludere, which have been reported in the media today that the intelligence was given by U.S. drones. Whose hand is in whose pocket, who's giving the right intel, who's not, our nation needs to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0023par0106	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0024par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the AK PARTI Group, wish God's mercy to three of our fallen officers who died today in the conflict in the Fourways district of Hatay. Our condolences to their families, the Turkish Armed Forces, their loved ones, our nation. The fight against terrorism will be carried out decisively, and this fight will be waged in the language the terrorist organization understands. The slightest hesitation in this matter is not incontrovertible. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0025par0113	Thank you, Mr. Canikli. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition, we offer the basis for the discovery of the problems of the Black Sea's vital nut manufacturer, the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution to determine measures to be taken, including the investigation of solution proposals and legal arrangements to be made for this. [[Let's go.]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 4) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] 7) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Hatay]] 13) Mehmet Ali Sesame [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adana]] 16) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Army]] 25) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] The Nutmeg is one of the most important sources of income that determines the income of the Black Sea People, about 8.5 million of our citizens, directly and indirectly. The nuts, which are an important source of foreign currency in our country's exports of agricultural products, are also a special agricultural product that cannot be attributed to employment as an industrial product. In our country, nuts are primarily produced by the Army, Giresun, Tripoli, Rize and Artvin, but as of today, they are grown in our 42 provinces, according to the State Planning Organization and State Statistics Institute. Nuts are produced in almost every province of our country on the coast of the Black Sea. Nuts are a product of 75 percent of our principle in the world's production and exports. In some years, it can reach up to 80 per cent. It is said that no country in the world has a product that has produced and exported at this rate. Nuts have an agrocultural economic structure, and our Black Sea region, which provides a single product-based production structure, is of extraordinary importance in both economic and social and cultural construction and development. The eastern Black Sea region has ecologically the best conditions for the production of nuts. In our region, the revenues that determine the size and development of the commercial structure and create market demand are at the top of the revenues provided by the agricultural population from nuts. In this context, nuts are the main source of income in our region's economy. The nuts, which are an important source of foreign currency in our country's exports of agricultural products, are also a special agricultural product that cannot be attributed to employment as an industrial product. The right of the nut maker will also ensure that the intensive migration in the region will be resolved by employment, as well as the protection of the nut gardens, which hold an important place in the fight against erosion as well as the main problems of the Black Sea region. The fall in the 2011 Nut Recolte was especially 70 to 80% around the province of Giresun. The loss of goods is due to ecological imbalances beyond the will of our farmers, as well as the negativity of industrial agriculture. The regional producer is unable to pay the loans they use from public banks and Agriculture Loan Co-ops. Area-based income support, good agricultural implementation support, fertilizer, diesel, soil analysis support payments must be paid immediately, and the cost of product insurance is thought to be difficult to pay. It seems possible that the black Sea region and the nut, which is of great importance to our country, are able to maintain its presence in the most qualified geographical region in the world, supported by the state. The need for droughts such as frosts in nut areas to be assessed under insurance, assuming that the need for coldness and pollination of plants are a natural risk and uncertainty. As part of the 2004 frost disaster, many of our manufacturers have not been paid, and the government's Central Management Budget Act for 2009 includes 45 of the E-Cetve, which contains some of the basics of the E-Citvel in connection with the Use and Expension Act. With the regulation of the article, the manufacturer is on a non-payment basis. This inhibitor verdict has been corrected and the manufacturer's debts are still not paid. In the Eastern Black Sea region, which is not compatible with alternative product planting due to climate conditions, a parliamentary survey is needed to determine the problems of nut products and nut producers, the re-marketing of Fiscopility, and the establishment of a stable nut market is to be established. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In recent years, in every part of our country, we offer and propose the opening and opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to investigate the damage done to the environment by stone quarrys, which have been opened in very randomly close to settlements, farmland and water resources, and are not fully supervised. [[Malatya]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] [[Let's go.]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 8) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] 9) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 12) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İzmir]] 15) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 16) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Scholarship]] [[Amasya]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 22) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 26) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] At the time of the Environmental Law, CED reports were required before the quarry was opened. However, after Mining Act 3213 came into effect in 2004, the State Department's decision and the CED report began opening stone furnaces without need. Thus, all natural and cultural areas, including areas of agriculture and mera, forests and water resources, have been opened to mining activities and quarryes. The opening quarry causes low underground waters, the trees to dry, animalism to be negatively affected, and the health of people living in the region to deteriorate. In different parts of our country, there are still nearly 5,000 licensed quarryes, while thousands of quarryes have applied for registration. Malatya Doğanşehir Kelhalil village, Akçadağ Karapınar villages and Cevizpınar villages, Yeşyurt Kozluk, Eyçün, Eyç, Eyç, Eyük villages, Arguvan Shotik Köçak Merak Merak district and Günşbey village Kaptaj district are also in many parts of Malatya. In particular, it is said that after the Mining Act came into effect in 2004, the quarry was given a random license. Despite the fact that quarry businesses should be at least 5km away from drinking water sources, around 600,000 people living in Malatya's Yereyurt district of Gündbey County in Malatya's Kozluk have been granted a license to run a quarry within a two-mile radius radius of the Kaptaj region, which meets the need for drinking water for drinking water. The Constitution is 56. According to the article, "Providing environmental health and preventing pollution is the government's duty." It's called. However, the state's institutions have issued licenses and themselves commit a constitutional offense. Many quarrys extract stones using dynamite. The use of dynamite is both causing the noise and the tremor that it creates, and because of the lime found in the powder that it produced during the explosion, it has a negative effect on human health, causing an increase in asthma and cancer. Since lime has not been ejected from nature for much longer, it also has a negative effect on vegetation, soil, and subterranean waters. Education and health institutions are under open threat as the quarry continues its activities in areas very close to its settlements. The quarry search warrants are issued by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources via a map, without a trace of the location of the furnace, without a study of its environment. So when the licenses are examined, it will be seen that the farmland, the village settlements, the water supply, the creeks are very close by. Many quarryes are built on the mera, which are very valuable to the villagers. Therefore, agriculture and livestock have reached the point of end in some areas. Thus, locals, whose livelihood is only agriculture and livestock, are left to their fates. According to the Mining Act, the licensed businesses must restore the area at the end of their deadline. But when the owners are done, they just leave the area. The nature that was destroyed using dynamite is left unusable. The issue of the license to the quarry must be reconsidered, the relevant substances of the Mining Law must be changed, and the quarry must be removed from the Mining Law and subject to the CED, again under the scope of the Environmental Law. Parliamentary Research must be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to investigate the damage done to the environment and take necessary precautions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Istanbul, one of the world's largest and most important metropolitan areas, is discussing the third bridge planned for the Bosphorus. The recent delay of his tender brought up the debate over this bridge again last year. The bridge faces objections from experts from many points. The objections can be classified environmentally, transport-related and economically. At the top of the point of view of experts, the following is the following: The bridge will negatively affect the quality of the city's inhabitants. Clean drinking water will directly affect the resources needed for healthy and happy living forests, and will not contribute to the solution of transportation problems. Istanbul's important drinking water reserves, Omarli, Elmalı, Darık, Alibeyköy, Büçükçekmece, Sazlıdere, Tervos will quickly be destroyed and the quality of drinking water will be reduced. Current bridges on the Bosphorus are intended to transport vehicles, not people. It is not a sustainable solution, but it will not solve the reason for the traffic problem. 1. After the bridge was built, from 1973 to 1974, the number of vehicles crossing the throat increased by 200%, while the number of passengers moving is only 4%. 2. After the bridge was built, the number of vehicles increased by 1,180 per cent, while the number of passengers increased by 170 per cent. However, a large percentage of the transportation methods used in the world's developed countries and major cities create rail systems. In this way, the incentive for throat crossings will lead to increased number of central businesses, illegal housing and industrial areas, more unplanned and disproportionate growth of the city, and more migration from Anatolia to Istanbul. That means Istanbul is growing fast without a plan. Noting the fact that each bridge creates its own traffic, Turkey's economic interests require the preparation of investments that prepare a gradual reduction, not for Istanbul's further growth. 3. The biggest debate over the Bosphorus Bridge was a recent delay in the tender. As is known, such important and large projects in our country are first passed through the High Planning Board (YPK), followed by the State Planning Agency (DPT), and are eventually passed on to the Council of Ministers. The terms used in the tender for such large projects are carefully drawn up. In particular, the conditions imposed by foreign financial institutions to provide financing are carefully discussed in terms of how long the construction will take, and how much income it will bring. Again, these organisations bring great importance to the Environmental Effect Evaluation (SED) Report, which directly impacts our country's future and determines how the environment will be affected by the project. Under the circumstances, the 3rd was scheduled to be made. DPT has reserved the Bosphorus Bridge, has objected to the route, and has not found the traffic accounts made by the General Directorate of Highways correctly. The same institution has asked for more detailed and accurate calculations. However, the government left the project to the General Directorate of the Highways and the Ministry of Transport, with a legal arrangement added to the Bags Law, which would take out the YPK and the DPT instead of these corrections. The bridge's tender requirements have been put on sale, but, according to an interesting statement by the General Directorate of Highways: "At the request of 16 companies who have purchased a contract" has been postponed. It is estimated that it will create a $350 billion Rant area, which will be contested by professional rooms, associations and NGOs, and will concern not only Istanbul, but our entire country. In order to determine what is wrong with the Bosphorus Bridge and to get experts' opinions on how to resolve them, the Constitution is 98. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 4) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 5) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Mughle]] [[Malatya]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Manisa]] 21) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, we're going to move on to "The Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Of İstanbul MP Mehmet Domac and Malatya MP Öznur Çarik and 9 MPs; Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals; Minister of Drugs Mesout Dedeoglu and Milliyelı Mersin MP Mehmet Şandir MP Öznur Çuk and 11 MPs; Manisa MP Free Special and Giresun MP Selahattin Karaahmetoglu; Minister of Medicine Group Mehmet Şandir and 2 Members of Parliament of the Parliament of Malatya; Minister of the Nationalist Movement Party Mehmet Şansır; Minister of the Constitution and the Committee of Justices of the Constitution; We will begin the talks. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 232 rows. We're starting negotiations on the entire proposal. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Iron Steel is a member of the Mush MP. Here you go, Mr. Steel. (x) 232 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0026par0312	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding the 232th proposal regarding the Pharmaceutical Law. I salute you all. The Law on Pharmaceuticals 6197 has kept this profession from becoming a form of social dynamics, which has been one of the most fundamental units of health activity, one of its fields, that surrounds and renders it dysfunctional, and therefore contributes to a significant amount of social change based on professional formation, since it was changed in 1953. It was a need to be changed, it had to be unique to meeting the social needs of changing world conditions, and in this context, understanding and approach stood before us as an untenable task. Our friends from the AKP, BDP, MHP and CHP, who are pharmacists of the 24th term, have brought to your attention a law proposal that will serve as a result of the valuable contributions and efforts of the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, which will serve to address our practical problems and partial problems. It may not be enough to solve the radical problem, it may not be the address or the law of a radical solution, but at the practical point, I'd like to point out that we care about it, that we care about it, that we care about it, and that we're going to offer the effort, effort, and contribution as a group. The heart would want to approach this problem and the problems in view of the new social needs that have been created by developing world conditions. As a pharmaceutical expert, the disease has emerged since the birth of mankind, along with the need for treatment and healing. So it's not new, it's not new professional activity. The profession, which is so radical, is as historic as mankind, does not have the proper reputation and dignity of this professional formation in modern-day Turkey. It is our duty, of course, to address this paradox, to meet the basic needs of the profession, both for society and for us. But as in many parts of the world since 1980, understanding and mentality, which have swept through our country from social perception, and the people living in countries to the war of neoliberal policies, has also transformed itself into a dominant relationship in health, and health policies have moved beyond the goodness of the individual, the community. However, we know that the well - being of one person and society at a spiritual, social, political, and cultural point is of value and importance that it does not serve one's expectations, it does not serve one's interests. With this understanding, the rulings and governments who insist on implementing neoliberal policies, while the community needs accessable health care, are trying to resolve the problem with a understanding and approach that is far from meeting the basic needs of society. In that respect, health has been moved to a commercialized, marketed, and in need of privatisation. The privatized health has been reduced from being a qualified service to a meta that can be bought or sold. The situation of profit, basic purpose, basic argument, has now moved to a point where the state and state of health of the individual and society have been ignored and ignored. The privatised, commercialized, and marketed health has moved to a point where it is inexorably self-involved in pharmaceuticals and medicine. The drug is the most fundamental, indispensable element in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease, and its markets have been moved to a controlled point, based on advertising, based on market-based, market-based criteria, because it has now been converted into a commercial commodity, commodity, and commodity. At this point, pharmaceutical activity has been reduced from a professional format, which meets the health needs of society, to a partial, day-to-day solution to the problems of the individual and individual society. However, pharmaceuticals and pharmacy pharmaceuticals, which have been as old as history, and who have done many of today's problematic areas of counseling, from the proper use of medicine to the right dose, have been ignored, and without being transformed, individuals have been confronted with their own destiny. While this was not acceptable, pharmaceuticalism was abandoned to its own destiny, when it was to reveal the contribution and importance of pharmaceuticals to social change and transform synergy into a society. Although we, as the 24th term legislature, have been able to solve the fundamental, radical problems of this professional activity, we are still very far from being able to solve them, because first of all, the profession, the product of liberal democracy, the neoliberal policy, is not managed to get rid of the privatized, the privatized, the privatized, the privatized private. If, like us, a country based on imports, without exports, which maintains a high-tech and over-armed import in imports, our foreign trade deficit, which is around $15 billion in 2002 due to its inability to develop exports, is now up to $110 billion in these wrong policies, it is possible to reflect itself negatively in health and pharmaceutical activity. The customer is now the recipient of this commodity sold, and there are collectors and pharmacists who are responsible for providing part of the customer's rights. The state should have been in a position to expand its citizens' freedom, any right to progress, any right to political and social existence, but come to see that we face the reality of Turkey, which, as in every field, has grown both the individual and the community's rights, rather than the atmosphere, the inhibiting, the shrinking, the downtrodden Turkey. At a particular point, we may have eased one's access to the doctor's medicine, but if you've established the focus of power that depends on privatisation in this sector that we've made easy, despite these ruling centers, society lacks social security relations and opportunities and the country is in a position far from being able to achieve the balance between imports, exports, war and high-tech imports, if it's a country that has been able to run its incomes and values by debting. In that sense, we wish and hope that instead of this high-tech import substitution, exports should be brought to a level where the values of our country, which is an agricultural country, our country of animalism, are being moved to meet its social needs, where pharmacists, like every part of society, should be able to get their share of health, but since it has been brought to a far-off point, the problem continues to grow by gangrene. I greet you with respect and loving greeting the efforts of this council to meet our basic demands, as I celebrate the right pride of being a parliamentary member of parliament and being a pharmacist of this period, with the sensitivity and the precision of this understanding of partnership. I wish you well. I offer my regards, wishing that these and similar concepts would be revealed in other areas of work, that they would set society free.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0027par0324	Thank you, Mr. Steel. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0028par0328	Mr. President, on behalf of my people and my group, the esteemed MPs, the High Council, I salute you. I also salute the esteemed presidents and administrators of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union, the local pharmacy rooms, as well as 32,000 pharmacists in Turkey and 7,000 students in pharmaceutical school following these talks. I'm not easily excited on the podium, I'm not excited, but I've just explained to my Congressman, I feel like my palms are sweating when I'm on a stand for the first time because we've been in effect for the last 15 years, and we're actively trying to contribute to the last 15 years that we've been waiting for to be replaced. We are very pleased with our Law, the way it was 60 years ago, and the way it carried us so far, but we are at the point of making changes and arrangements in this Law today because it does not respond to certain requirements. Looking at the reports, we learn that in 1953, this Law was brought out in agreement by all groups in the Parliament. Another thing that brings me personal satisfaction is that 2 late Manisa MP, Pharmacist Sudi Mühçıoğlu and Mullis Allay have contributed to the construction of this Law on that day. After that day, at a point like this again 60 years later, it's very important for me and a lot of MPs, many of our pharmacist friends, that I've made promises on behalf of my party in this law, and I'm very happy. We've been fighting seriously for the past 12 or 13 years. He had a few recent setbacks in coming to Parliament, but here today, the joint work of pharmaceutical lawmakers in four parties, the Ministry of Health of the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association, the General Directorate of Medicine, our newly established institution, and the work of the bureaucrats, has been transformed into a common text of four parties. In fact, we've always wanted to sign a single law proposal together, but because of some of the needs of politics, each group has offered the same text with a certain number of signatures. He was transferred to the subcommittee in agreement with our commission, passed through the subcommittee in agreement. Our commission has been discussed, and all texts have been made into a single text and will be present today. In view of the Republican People's Party, this proposal includes very little of what the Republican People's Party is planning to do with pharmacists, while I would like to say that we are all behind the fact that this is the smallest of the common floors and that we are behind a general compromise, and that we will work at the point of legislature, as it passes on the proposal, at the point of legislature, we will vote. Why is this law necessary? This law is required for this reason: there is a process of labouring professional professions all over the world, and there are problems in Turkey as well as in many free professions, for pharmacists, conjunctural, global, local. For this reason, there would be an effective intervention in the pharmaceutical field. There were systems at this point of intervention that we were very concerned about. But especially from the point of view of health conversion practices throughout Turkey, pharmacists have been severely troubled. Change in health is good, bad, we talk about them all the time -- I'll continue to pass on my opinions about it later -- but there's a point where every party meets a pharmacist from every political point of view, and because of the change of health transformation, the pharmacists are in the habit of collecting the kind of participation they haven't received in the past from the patient because they've changed the amount of accession from the patient, and because of the fact that they've been collecting from the pharmacy that they haven't received in the past, and because of the computer and internet systems, they've been working and finding that health patronship has changed their hands, each one of which is why they've changed, because they've changed the social security agency've changed the issue a little bit, and because they've changed the way they've been so often since they've changed their policy, and because they've been spending money, they've actually put the patients in the way they've been suffering, they've been suffering, they've been suffering, and they've been forced to the patients. Drug pricing systems have changed all over the world, while Turkey has changed. The reference price system has inevitably declined drug prices in Turkey over the past decade, as countries around the world have based on the prices of each other and the price reduction in countries based on them reflected in other countries. There's been serious stock damage for pharmacists. They wanted to talk about their problems, but they couldn't find effective solutions. I graduated from Pharmaceuticals 15 years ago when I graduated from Pharmaceuticals, and now I have 27 pharmaceutical schools. 19 of them are students and graduates. A system that graduates 300 to 400 pharmacists a year suddenly moves towards 1,500 to 2 grand. There are 7,000 Pharmaceuticals students in the system, and there was an effective intervention in the process. Today's draft is a draft that will solve the very important problems of pharmacists in the middle and long term. In particular, it is a draft that produces effective results for countries best applied and implemented in France. But to state the punch line of the offer, it's a pharmaceutical limitation based on the population. Every 3,500 people will have to go to an arrangement that will fall into a pharmacy. One of the other important things is that pharmacists who graduated from pharmaceutical schools work as assistant pharmacists in a free pharmacy for at least a year, but their fee is guaranteed by law. It also includes important modern and public health regulations, such as running a second, third, fourth pharmacy, according to the turnout of pharmacists who prescribe or turn on a specific turnover. At the end of these studies, it is also clear that students who are currently studying, even students who are taking the exam this year -- we accept those students as our colleagues -- are also under the protection of all rights to public pharmacists, people who have the right to do pharmaceutical work, but who don't choose to do it willingly, and they will open a pharmacy at any time, as if they were opening a pharmacy before this law. As I have just pointed out, this law is a short and medium-term offer to the pharmacists, but each one of them is a health worker, social leader of the community, where they are, the neighborhood, the village's grief partner, the village's confidantes, and, frankly, each one of them has become a pain in the ass lately. Pharmaceuticals work much more now than they used to, they owe more, they suffer more, they take even greater risks, but they earn less. Looking at the figures of state, institutions, ministries, we know that one out of every three pharmacies is on the verge of bankruptcy, and one out of the other three pharmacies is in an open economic stalemate, and it's going bankrupt. We need to develop a number of systems that will quickly and quickly address the acute problems of pharmacies in order to move pharmacies into the next six or seven years, as we call them. We need to quickly resolve the inequality distribution problem between the pharmacy. Pharmaceuticals are professional workers. Because of the scientific education they receive, they offer advice in their pharmacy, they produce health care, they run a business facility as an inevitable consequence of their work, and they take commercial risks there, but for reasons that I've just told the pharmacists about, we're just describing a percentage profitability per day over prices that are going down every day. If this is Nasreddin Hoxha's cat, where's the liver? If the liver's here, where's the cat? If this money is the equivalent of the risks, loans, commercial activity that pharmacists take, professional labor, scientificly and applied professions, the whole world has seen that. There are ways to get pharmacists in front of these systems, not in front of them, but in the back. It's a constant fee per box per percentage profit margin for pharmacists, with effective fixed wage practices, and, more accurately, the pharmacists are being talked about in the health system -- we support it at that point -- fighting obesity, fighting cigarettes, taking advantage of pharmacists in hypertension control programs and so on -- and they need to define their professional rights in a way that the whole world says is free of commercial concerns. In the process of doing these things, along with this arrangement, we have to find ways to move 8,000 pharmacists today, each on their deathbed, so to speak, in the decline of bankruptcy, to live on a drop of oxygen. When we do so, the tribulation will be less difficult to deal with. Clearly and clearly, the compromise here today shows the sincerity of the opposition we've always said. All parties stand behind him when there's a positive law, speak in his favor, contribute on commissions. Today, we're just going to talk about the general, and we're going to pass this law quickly. There are professional groups here that we owe our hearts to; they came to the Health Commission, they expressed, and the valued members of our Commission made an incredible contribution. We have proved ourselves here today that we will be behind all of the parties behind the problems of doctors, the problems of dentists, the problems of nurses, the problems of other health workers, and even at the point where we will be able to bring each of them to the problems of our pharmacist workers who work with us like meat and nails at the pharmacy. The job is to run, the job is to the Minister's office, the bureaucrats'. With these feelings, I thank Mr. Secretary, Mr. bureaucrats, the President of the Commission at each party, the pharmaceutical and health MPs at each party, for their understanding of our party's representatives, and for showing to our pharmacists, who are both health workers and a lovely face of their neighborhoods, all of whom I thank for this contribution. With such compromises, I hope our citizens, our country, will benefit from the understanding of all trade groups, occupational troops, rooms, and this kind of solution. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0029par0349	Thank you, Mr. Special. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Öz. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0030par0353	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmacies 232 rows, and the Order of the Law to Change the Law on the Murakabe of Drugs. I salute the High Council. First of all, I'd like to reconvene the day of 30,000 pharmacists serving in our country as the 14th of May World Pharmaceutical Day and 12 members of Parliament. Of course, the problem with our pharmacists isn't something that can be solved quickly with just one law. We as the National Movement Party Group know that pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical colleagues have serious problems, but let's not forget that this law is a law proposal that the pharmacists, who have been serving in our country for years, have been very seriously expecting, and that Parliament has made serious promises to them on the street to solve their problems. I'd like to express here today that we are happy to meet with the culture of compromise, both in committees, and in the understanding of the parliamentary groups, and in the understanding of our group's representatives, to meet and pass this bill quickly, and to fulfill the promise we made to pharmacists. Pharmaceuticals have voiced their problems for years and reported to every political party group that they needed a new law, and all political parties have proposed law by keeping their commitment to these professional organisations, and in a short period of time, negotiations have been completed on the main commission, and have been brought to our General Assembly to be legalised with full understanding and consensus. We, too, thank the political party groups, the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union, the Turkish Medical Association's Nationalist Action Party Group, who have worked and contributed to this step. This law is a good example of Parliament's work, a good product of the culture of reconciliation. We have no serious claim that pharmacists have a law proposal to solve all their problems because pharmacists still have serious problems to solve. We also need to discuss these problems again on a separate agenda, but with this bill, I'd like to briefly discuss the occupational gains of pharmacists. First, when the proposal defines pharmaceuticalism, it defines it as an important health maid, not just a commercial business, but a public health contribution. We must remember that the profession of pharmaceuticals is a respectable profession. The pharmacy redesigns the conditions for opening and operating, bringing a structure in accordance with population standards, such as in European countries, predicting a pharmacy for 3,500 populations, which is given opportunities to open up pharmacies in places with fewer populations -- admissible. The limitation in the number of pharmaceuticals brings the fact that the rate of pharmacist per patient will rise to European standards, that interstate inequality will be eliminated, that drug distribution can be conducted on the basis of professional deontology and standards, and that as a result, access to pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical services will be provided. Pharmaceuticals are an advantage to our colleagues in employment, under the obligation to employ a second pharmacist, depending on the number of prescriptions and/or turnovers. One year as an assistant pharmacist to open a pharmacy, he brings the obligation to work at another pharmacy. In terms of public health, it brings a five-year ban on pharmacies, especially for those who seek to open a pharmacy with a rental degree -- the standard pharmaceutical method we know among the public. It's bringing up the reorganization of the pharmacists' work system. In particular, it brings the fact that the Ministry is now removed from pharmacies, along with the truly appreciated drug tracking system, which may not even be implemented in most European countries. In fact, it is important to describe the profession of pharmaceuticals, sometimes psychological advisors, sometimes family counselors, sometimes people in the area who share the most common problems, sometimes people who can't even complain to a physician. In treatments, they're friends that patients often take to heart. Pharmaceuticals are practically members of the family. When we look at this point, what we call the sociological phenomenon is that pharmacists have serious effects. We consider it our duty to call the pharmacists public health at the point of education and awareness. Parliament must resolve the problems, the problems of this professional group, which is an important public in the health system. It's a wise way to listen to their professional organizations. In particular, I would like to express that we, as the National Party of Action, are pleased that this law has been brought to Parliament in a great deal of agreement by our Ministry and the Ministry's bureaucrats, in accordance with the demands of the civil society organisations established by the pharmacists from the beginning to the stage of preparation to the coming to Parliament. Young people who would prefer the profession of pharmaceuticals are not cut off by this law, leaving them to make their choices based on the facts of the country. The bill does not include the current students in order to prevent persecution, but the goal here is to facilitate our people's access to medicine and especially all products that affect human health are given to their buyer by serious controls. I salute the Ministry of Health and the bureaucrats, the NGOs, especially the valued representatives of the Turkish Medical Corps and the Turkish Medical Corps, our dear fellow lawmakers in the main and subcommittee, and the parties with serious initiatives at the point of upholding the law in the media. I wish the law to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, to our fellow pharmacists who follow us.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0031par0371	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Mehmet Domac. Mr. Domaç, here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0032par0375	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear members of the High Council, I salute you all. I'm going to keep my speech very short because I've been talking about it for 17 years. So, if my speech here is too short, I think maybe I can make up for the process then. Dear parliamentarians, yes, we've worked on this law differently for 17 years, but it finally came here today. A beauty that coincides with May 14th week, Pharmaceutical Week. This week, starting with May 14th Pharmaceutical Day, is celebrated as the days when pharmacists discuss their problems, and in the evenings, they meet and socialize. So it's a historical point in the pharmaceutical profession that we've come across today and that our groups are discussing this law today. On the Day of Pharmaceuticals on May 14th, this law will no doubt be remembered there. I'd like to thank all my friends who have bid on it very, very much first. I want to thank the Republican People's Party Group very much. I want to thank our friends who bid, 53 friends, 53 MPs. I want to thank the MHP Group very much. Thank you very much for our friend who bids, and he's not a stranger to the pharmacists, he's in them all the time. I also want to thank our colleague, the pharmacist who bid on BDP, and the BDP Group. And I want to thank our AK PARTY group very, very much. I'd like to thank all the groups for making our law available here today, but I have other thanks, no doubt. The Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals has put a lot of work into this law, in its kitchen. Thank you very, very much for the executives of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union. And thank you very much for our health minister and his valuable bureaucrats because they've worked so hard to make this law come to this form. Our Health Commission has worked on this, created a subcommittee, and do you believe that all proposals on these subcommittee and commissions have been given by all groups and have been unanimously approved by all groups. Therefore, this is a change of law by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, all together and everyone together. I'm hoping we'll be able to catch it in other amendments, and I think we'll be able to catch it in the constitution. Dear lawmakers, we want to increase the quality of pharmaceutical services, we want to offer a quality pharmaceutical service, we want to contribute to public health with a qualified pharmaceutical service, we're trying to minimize increasing ethical problems with this law. We're implementing this legal amendment to uncover structural changes required by the profession of pharmaceuticals and occupational services. The first pharmaceutical law was carried out in the history of the republic in 1928. His change corresponds to 1953. The fact that we're making the law that changed it now is a very serious step forward. We're localizing my pharmaceutical angles, so we're leaving them to the governors. We're not letting the pharmacists waste any time opening a pharmacy, and we're making it easy for pharmacists to process to track down my pharmacy angle. Here, in the Pharmaceuticals Act, we make an arrangement to eliminate the disparity distribution of pharmacies in Turkey and to prevent the waste of national income. In our law, the products found in pharmacies were limited to three products in 6197, and we now list them by bringing them in today's conditions. We make the pharmaceutical definition appropriate to the age, and we make it patient-oriented, and we provide pharmaceutical employment. We're bringing in a year's work as an assistant pharmacist in pharmacies so the new graduates can offer a more qualified pharmaceutical service. We're also bringing in pharmaceuticals to hire pharmacists based on the number of prescriptions and turnovers. We're bringing the recordings into electronics. We're making a follow-up pharmaceutical service and pharmaceutical services available. We're hiding the rights of the students who are currently studying at Pharmaceuticals and our colleagues who have already received a degree. We have prepared our law proposal today to improve the quality of pharmaceutical services, to expand quality, to expand health care presentation and to address ethical problems, to bring the pharmacy in Turkey closer to European standards; and we hope that it will benefit our country, our nation, our pharmacists, the public health. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0033par0392	Thank you, Mr. Domaç. Mr. Health Minister, please.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0034par0395	Honourable President, distinguished members of our High Council, I salute you all. We're doing a really important job today. We present a fine example for our pharmacists, both for our citizens and for politics, together in our Parliament. It's an important law. With the cooperation of all our groups, our party groups, and the consensus of our parliament today -- God willing -- we will have done it. May 14th is a special day for our pharmacists. We're in the middle of the week that follows this day. So this week, the fact that this law is being discussed in our Parliament and that it will soon be accepted. And that's what makes sense. Of course, the work our pharmacists do is extremely valuable. We AK PARTY governments care very much about our citizen's access to the drug. Dear lawmakers, we must remember that we have come to this point from the point where former SEC hospitals are forced to seek shelter, to give drugs to citizens in basements, or to be given drugs. Today in Turkey, more than 20,000 of our precious pharmacists in shiny pharmacies make it easier for us to deliver medicine to our citizens. For this reason, I would like to express our gratitude to all our pharmaceutical colleagues on behalf of the Turkish people. The law will be a law that facilitates the work of our pharmacists, the work of Turkish pharmaceuticals, which will take us one step further at this point. Although Mr. Mehmet Domac, who spoke before me, thanked all the people and organizations who would be thanked, but as the country's Minister of Health, I have to do this from the stand, as well, as I see it as a duty. I want to thank all of our party groups, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, the Peace and Democracy Party, the leaders of the party groups. I would like to thank all of our lawmakers, lawmakers, Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association, the Institute for Medicine and Medicine, the new institution we have created in our ministry, the executives and employees of this institution, our President of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, Mr. Cevdet Erdöl, and our valued lawmakers in the Commission, and those who follow this law here today, and those of our valued deputies who I am certain will be able to legislate this proposal using a vote. I wish you all the best for the country, for our people, for our pharmacists.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0035par0404	Thank you, Mr. Recep Akdağ, our Minister of Health. Now, on behalf of his people, Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu, the deputy of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0036par0408	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I ask God's mercy on three of our fallen officers, who have caused us a great deal of grief today in Hatay, which we don't want, and I offer my condolences to our Parliament, our Turkish nation. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I wish that today's offer 232, which will be briefly considered the pharmaceutical law, would be a blessing to our 32,000 pharmacists. I want to thank the non-governmental organizations, 53 of our chamber heads, the Turkish Pharmaceuticals Association, our Health Minister and all of his colleagues, the Justice and Development Party in Parliament, the Republican People's Party and the People's Movement Party, and my friends who have worked closely on it, and the Peace and Democracy Party. 32,000 pharmacists are listening to us right now, waiting for this law. It's a law that hasn't been passed in years, and it's finally been passed through the 24th term. Now, we're going to get this law out, and it's going to come out in a little bit, because the Parliamentary groups with four groups said. Now it's not over. We say that in the next period, not just the pharmacists, but the doctors, the pharmacists, the dentists, the vets, the nurses, and all the health workers. And let us establish laws that allow them to work freely, especially with the rights and working environments that are appropriate for our new era. We'd like to point out from now on that we'll be contributing to any law as the National Movement Party Group. I salute the High Council with all due respect and wish that this act of charity be the cause of this occasion.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0037par0412	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Congressmans, the entire bill has been completed. Now, according to our Civil Code, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0038par0417	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say that I'm happy that such a law has been passed by the consensus of all parties, but I also want to say that I'm a member of the Aegean District. I read about it in the paper yesterday. The official memorials of Hasan Tahsin (D.A.) who fired the first bullet in İzmir have been banned and not performed. Even the organizations who wanted to put a wreath on the monument of Hasan Tahsin have been blocked by police. Now, I want Mr. Secretary to explain to you why the official memorials of Hasan Tahsin, who fired the first bullet in such a national liberation war, were banned. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0039par0421	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Ascendant... No, sir? Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0040par0425	Mr. President, Suutu Falls, water is rented to a private company in the village of Sunluk and around 19 villages. In these high-rise villages, there is no source at 200 meters. The right to use water very cheaply, given the convincing of a muhtar and several villagers and the surprise of members of the province's general legislature, has led to the reaction of villages that come by tanker in the summer. The peasant is concerned that he will suffer both hunger and thirst. Women are forced to give statements and signatures. Fish stamps mixed with fish farming have already increased the citizens' throat infections. The citizen has been confronted by the gendarmes. Unfortunately, the authorities are unable to intervene. Our peasants who have not decided to stop the execution have to discuss the property with the chief and the gendarme. I'd like you to take a precaution.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0039par0426	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0041par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish God's mercy to our children who died in Hatay, our country, our country. I wish that the law, which will be passed in a moment, would also be a blessing, and while wishing that health problems would live as a resolved country, there are 2,365 people living in the village of Başdurak and Atayurt in the village of Arsin district of Tripoli, as well as in the village of Atayurt. Sadly, there is only one medic in these villages, and once a week a doctor and a nurse leave. They're having problems there, and I want the arrangements to be made, and I want to thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0042par0431	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0043par0433	Thank you, Mr. President. On May 12, 2012, at the 400-bed research hospital in Adıyaman, where construction continues, unfortunately, our party lost its life by falling from construction, asking God for mercy and patience for its relatives. Therefore, I would like to point out that just as all parties in this Pharmaceutical Law unite and make a unanimous law, the Law on Occupational Safety, which is now being discussed, must be brought out in Turkey in a very short time. From now on, the number of people who died from business accidents has to be reduced. Turkey, you know, is a country with a bad record. I want to thank you in the Labour Safety Act, which is currently under discussion in the subcommittee, in the hope that the four parties will make a fine law together.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0042par0435	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0044par0437	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you take many services to private companies through subcontractorship in state hospitals. People who don't get visas from the AKP district are not being employed at many points in Balıkesir Τin and Turkey, including the Bandırma. For one thing, they work in state hospitals as AKP youth branches and put political pressure on the main staff working there. Are you planning on getting ahead of this? Second, your government boasts of economic miracles, but when a raise comes to civil servants and public employees, it predicts a increase in poverty of 3+3. Here, when our Finance Minister paints brilliant paintings in the economy and comes to give the officers their rights, is your stand against poverty coming? So, what is your government's position when it comes to giving our fellow officers the rights of public employees to pay what they deserve?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0045par0440	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0046par0442	Thank you, Mr. President. With the unity of the four political parties in the group, we will make changes in the Pharmaceutical Law together today. As a pharmaceutical MP, I'd like to say that I'm extremely happy about this. I stopped by about 35 or 40 pharmacies in Mamak County earlier this afternoon, and I wanted to celebrate the day of my friends, colleagues, on May 14th Pharmaceutical Day, but I found out the truth is that our pharmacies aren't really affordable anymore. I'd like to point out that the law -- and if it does -- will be, and we believe it will -- will be -- but in six or seven years, our pharmaceutical colleagues will be able to get their efficiency. The pharmacy's problems are still going on. We expect that after the final price reductions, the loss of 129 million dollars will be given the necessary sensitivity to the pharmacy. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0047par0446	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Mr. Ascendant.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0048par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. In Turkey's most naive, loving, comical writings, the beloved Bekir Coshkun, known for his devotion to the republic, democracy, Mr. Salih Kapuz, the AKP MP after the Prime Minister, has also made a grave insult to the public. First of all, I condemn the Prime Minister and Salih Kapusuz, for their insults, and they target Bekir Coshkun. If anything happens to Bekir Coshkun, they will be responsible. It's unacceptable in terms of freedom of the press. Such things have been said about Izmir (Izmir) before. When they look at where the stench is coming from, I say let them look inside themselves, look around. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0049par0454	Mr. Drift.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0050par0455	Mr. President, thank you very much. It will be one of the few laws in our parliament that all party groups agree upon. Law 6197 had been waiting to change for nearly 50 years and to be passed in this Parliament. On this occasion, I thank all of my party-group vice presidents, the President of the Health Commission, all of his members, and all of our members of the Majli. Thank you very much for his strong support for Mr. Health Minister and his precious bureaucrats, who successfully led health reform through his ten years of power. My President of the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals, I would like to say good luck and good luck to 32,000 of my colleagues. Happy Pharmaceutical Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0051par0459	Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0052par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I've asked a few of our ministers this question before, but unfortunately, they said there would be an answer from you, since it's not about their field. We have two hospitals at the footman's house - the Old Insurance Hospital and the State Hospital. These two hospitals have 650 bed capacity. As a result of the transfer of our 650 bed-access hospitals to TOKİ. 400 beds -- near the sugar factory -- a new hospital is being built. However, the Servants want the two hospitals not to be destroyed, not to be handed over to the TOKI, and to remain a medical facility. I know you have verbal statements about this, too, but what's the real situation? Do you have any determination to continue as a medical facility without ruining our place? Is there going to be a transfer to TOKI? You know how the servants react to this, is there anything different about it? I'd appreciate it if you'd give me some information on these matters. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0053par0463	Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0464	Thank you, my dear President. Mr. Yilmaz Hasan Tahsin has mentioned that the ceremonies related to Tahsin have been banned. I know these ceremonies are being performed, so there's no ritual ban. It's just...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0055par0466	It's not official institutions, Mr. Secretary, it's not official institutions. The Association of Journalists...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0467	Yeah, I mean, do official institutions have to do it? I find it unnecessary to discuss such a law.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0055par0468	It was done until last year.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0469	Dear MPs, of course, in Hasan Tahsin, our elders who served in our Battle of Salvation or in other important times are the crown of our heads. We don't want Turkey to be a country that has parades every day. It's not right. I mean, when we look at developed countries, and we look at less developed countries, we can see very clearly the difference between these ceremonies. We have to do business, we all have to serve. In the battle of Hasan Tahsin and Salvation, we have a place above our heads for the other martyrs and veterans who have sacrificed their lives, their lives, their blood, their lives, and their lives.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0055par0470	The Padişahs are having birthdays, funerals on the days of their death, Mr. Secretary alone.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0471	He mentioned that water was rented to a private company in the district of Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa, our MP. Sure, something I don't know. He also mentioned that the city's private administration had been leased, our esteemed congressman. I'm going to pass this on to the Governor of Bursa, as our MP has just passed on to us, and they're going to evaluate it and do what needs to be done. We can't give doctors everywhere, unfortunately the number of doctors in Turkey is a restrictive factor in this issue. In Turkey, we have either a practitioner or a family physician who can give about 3,500 family physicians. Thus, we carry out this service by providing family medicine in the closest areas to our villages, and we follow the elderly, the invalids, the pregnant ones, or the babies who are there, sometimes two days, sometimes fifteen days - depending on the condition of the village. There's no other way out of this right now. Naturally, every village or village that has reached a certain level, whether there is a regular doctor in that village, and I would like that, as Minister of Health, I'd be very happy to do so, but our number of doctors in Turkey can't do that. So how can we most effectively use the number we have? We've come up with these solutions, looking for ways to do that. This mobile service is actually a well-organized service to our villager, our country-dwelling citizen, who is actually making their jobs easier for them. Mr. Firat also wished that the law on occupational health and safety of parties, party groups, would be immediately legalised in harmony. I agree with that wish, and I know it's on the subcommittee right now. Hopefully, just like this law, we can make this law in full harmony and cooperation. Of course, the business health and safety of our workers, our working people, our workers is a very important issue. I agree with our esteemed congressman on this matter. We employ workers in public hospitals, as we do in some other institutions of the public. In fact, this has been a way for us to greatly increase public employment, valued lawmakers. When I was in office at the Ministry of Health, there were about 17,000 workers who worked like this, and in our hospitals today, we had conditions that our workers were not able to do in a large way, so there were many missing services. Today, our 120,000 citizens, our brother, got a job like this. We have also taken important measures to ensure that the laws of our workers who serve in this way are protected by the companies that employ them. For example, at the Health Department, we don't pay them until they pay the workers' insurance, or we put the money directly into the bank, and the workers get their money from the bank. In this regard, our Labour and Social Security Minister is also conducting studies to improve the situation of our employees who work in contract or in service. In general, our policy on this issue is that we never separate our citizens from each other who will work here. If there are such distinctions being made anywhere, if our esteemed congressman gives us direct information about these practices, we will do it for him. For our officers, the collective contracts will now be set up for new salaries. Talks have begun, our Minister has been offered to represent the government's side, the unions have offers. We have to wait for the end of these negotiations, wait for the result. As a government, we have never had our officers, pensioners, workers crushed in the face of inflation, and this time, I'm sure that's the way it's going to be. I'd like to point out the importance of our pharmacy. One of our valued deputies said that the drugstores would only benefit from this law six or seven years later. In fact, our pharmacists, our pharmacies, they're going to benefit directly, but we've taken measures to the future, that's true. By the way, we recently made a payment that our pharmacists had long wanted, which they wanted as a right to a profession, but not long before that, our Department of Labor and Social Security and our Association of Pharmaceuticals made a contract, and we began to pay one per prescription. Hopefully, in harmony with the Union and with our pharmacists, we'll do the work in the coming days to meet their present woes. A valuable congressman of ours has made some statements regarding a columnist. Of course, our Prime Minister and Mr. Kapusuz are not targeting anyone. In a democratic environment against a misdemeanor, everyone has freedom of speech, freedom to express his opinion.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0056par0481	What would you think if I told you that there was a sewer running through your mouth?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0482	However, our congressman had one sentence on such a beautiful day -- I'll say I never approve of it -- to look inside themselves about the stench. He said. I'm inviting our esteemed congressman to look inside himself, so that statement is not a very accurate statement.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0056par0484	What would you think if I told you, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0485	No, I invite our esteemed congressman to look inside himself in his own statements.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0056par0486	Everyone look inside themselves...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0054par0487	If you look inside yourself, you're probably doing the right thing. We are building a new hospital in connection with the servant. This is a great big hospital that's going to include existing hospitals twice, three times. In relation to the location of our other hospitals, we can no longer use them as hospitals. Our new hospital -- we're gonna build another building next to it, block -- we're gonna use our old hospitals until it's finished. But then I can also say that we're going to use these areas, especially one of these areas, in health care. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0057par0491	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0058par0492	Mr. President, there's still time, may we take a look, sir?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0057par0493	The hacker, Mr. Canalioglu.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0059par0494	Thank you. Minister, thank you for your information. Of course, you know the Black Sea, because Mr. Erdöl also worked in the Black Sea, and he also served as a local legislator. But we, unfortunately, are still carrying our funerals on the cable car, even now. Our paths, our transportation are not available. So, we don't want anything special in the Black Sea, but at the point of recovery of these issues, that's it, so we can do this. I don't think it's enough to say it. I believe these conditions should be improved. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0060par0497	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. Now, I'd like to submit to your votes that those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted. It's still a matter of law enforcement on the grounds that the victims and the victims are sleeping with the law. Article 1 of the Law on Pharmaceuticals and Pharmaceuticals has been changed as follows, dated 1 - 24/12/1953. ▪ MEDDE 1 - the preparation and delivery of pharmaceuticals from medicines used in diagnostics and treatments of disease and health care for health care for drug-related health care, in terms of the continuity, safety, efficiency and cost of drug-related problems, and the information on drug-related problems and the performance of drug-related problems. It's essential to open a pharmacy and run a pharmacy and become a pharmacist in order to run a pharmacy. Pharmaceuticals can open businesses such as a pharmaceutical production facility, cosmetics factory, pharmaceutical ar-age center, or be responsible for such an official or private establishment. Congressmans, the Commission has requested an explanation on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Commissioner. Mr. President, I would like to request a change of the terms of the article's title, which has been mentioned in the title of Article 1 (24/12/1953), sir. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 5 of Article 2 of the Law, No. 2 of the Law, 6197, has been changed in the following way. 5 - Free pharmacies are opened with a license issued by the county health department and approved by the governorate with documents set up in the administration of a private pharmacist. Turkey's Drug and Medical Device Agency is the key to the problems related to the registration. Pharmaceuticals who want to open a pharmacy, transfer it, or transfer it to another location apply for a petition to the health department of their municipality. A license will be issued if the documents of those who want to open a pharmacy are complete. The licenses are issued to the Ministry of Health, Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices and the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals. Pharmacies do not also require a residence permit from the municipality and the municipality to receive tuition. Free pharmacies are organised to be a pharmacy for at least 3,500 people, according to the population within the district. A pharmacy is allowed to be opened in no pharmacies, regardless of the population criteria. However, the population criteria are implemented in the transfer of pharmacies to other locations. Pharmaceutical transports within the same district do not apply the criteria for opening pharmacies according to the population. In the case of natural disasters and severe demographics, the transport of pharmacies in that settlement does not apply the criteria for opening a pharmacy according to the population. This state of affairs is made by the Ministry of Health. As criteria for opening a pharmacy are set, it is categorised according to the socioeconomic development rankings of the counties. According to this rating, boroughs are given borough coefficients. Pharmaceuticals are given as many service points as the number of years in which they continue their professional activities and the product of the county coefficient. If the pharmacist worked in more than one district, the service points are collected. As the service score is calculated, the county coefficient is applied by increasing by a quarter for those who have earned a Ph.D. Pharmaceuticals are given a placement score determined by the total number of years spent in the profession and the product of the pharmacist's service points. According to the population criteria, pharmacies are declared by the Ministry of Health, at least twice a year. Those with the highest placement points from candidates who apply to the places they've been announced get the right to open a pharmacy. If the placement point is equal, the lottery is drawn. Pharmaceutical registration cannot apply for a year's notice, which has been retrieved according to Article A's first joke (A). When a pharmacist who's handed over his pharmacy wants to open a new pharmacy, the placement score is reduced by half. In free pharmacies, a number of second pharmacists are required according to criteria such as the number of prescriptions and/or turnovers. A pharmacist who wants to open a free pharmacy or work as a director of free pharmacies has to work as an assistant pharmacist in free pharmacies, depending on the service contract for at least a year. Working for at least a year at a free pharmacy as a hospital pharmacy or as a second pharmacist has met the condition of working as an assistant pharmacist. The working period will not be accepted if assistant pharmacists find out that they have not been in the pharmacy without an alibi three times under the supervision of the municipal health department and/or local pharmacy rooms. Aiding pharmacists will be paid a minimum fee of one-and-a-half times the amount, and second pharmacists will be paid by parties, not less than three times the minimum wage. The procedure and the basis for the run of the assistant pharmacist and second pharmacist are determined by the Ministry of Health by the opinion of the Turkish Association of Pharmaceuticals. Proposal on matter? No. A friend of ours hacked into the system, in the form of a question-answer. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0061par0525	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm asking Mr. Secretary this question through you: Gaziantep 75. The name of the State Hospital of the Year has been changed to Attorney Genghis Gökçek State Hospital. Is it possible that the name given to the 75th year of the Republic should be changed later, Mr. Secretary? Secondly, I ask: A bill is being discussed in the Health, Family and Work Commission, and a proposal has been made to suggest that aviation industry workers cannot strike, but this proposal has been rejected by the Commission. But now, with a bill offered to the Interior Commission, this proposal has been brought back to the Interior Commission's agenda. What does he say about that? Thank you very much. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0062par0530	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0063par0532	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary, it's not your area, but I'm asking you to bring it up for me. All the livestock markets have been shut down in the footman's house and in the Aegean region because of the silly disease. The clap disease is spreading very seriously, and our people are in a very difficult situation. They're telling us there's been some mistakes made by the Department of Agriculture. The vaccines, for example, do not do type analysis; it is said that when the disease is done in advance, when the vets send a microbe about it, the type analysis is more effective because the vaccines are produced that way, while now they are being produced randomly, and they are said not to be effective on animals. And there was no inoculation of the neighboring village, sir; although it had been done in the past, now there was no inoculation, no protection, no inoculation of villages in the vicinity where the disease was seen. For these reasons, the disease is said to be increasing. If you can get that to the Department of Agriculture, at least we'll have a hand in something. I'll thank you, sir, if we can get an answer in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0064par0536	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0065par0537	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank the Minister and the Parliament and our Commission, and they've passed a law together, and they're giving a very good example. In that sense, I owe you thanks and congratulation. I also congratulate the pharmacists on their solidarity. So I'm going to say one more thing that I said in the Commission -- there are messages coming in -- and I said it there, and I told the Minister, and I feel the need to state it to the House. We ask that our dentist's law be dealt with as quickly as possible. If the system is restored immediately, we have a very old law. It's not easy to run with this law -- I'm making the House an offer again to be sensitive in that sense. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0066par0543	Mr. Minister, Malatya Hekimhan district, one of the major districts of Malatya, one of our largest districts, and, you know, one of the most beautiful walnuts in Turkey, you know, is a district with six towns, bordered by Sivas. But recently, when he had three ambulances, two ambulances of the state hospital withdrew. Moreover, the summer population is about 2 or 3 times the winter population of Hekimhan. No pediatricians, no dentists, three doctors in the hospital, one anesthesiologist. Hekimhan, in the summer, we have a town that needs doctors. In this regard, I submit to your knowledge that Hekimhan is not to be victimized. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0067par0545	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0068par0547	Mr. President, thank you. In Gaziantep, we called it Genghis Gökçek, a lawyer at the 75th Year State Hospital, yes, it's true. This proved to be true: You know, in Gaziantep, they killed a dear brother, a colleague. So we named his hospital after him, and it was a need for loyalty, and we had to do it. There is also the name of the late Genghis Gökçek. Genghis Gökçek, our 16th-century MP, and the Ministry of Health, is a valued politician who did the Ministry of Health to the Republic of Turkey, so we named him after another hospital in Gaziantep. By the way, my dear Congressman, the republic is of course important to us, but we must not enter the 75th year of the republic or the 50th year or the 83rd year of the republic. This isn't the ability to strengthen the republic. At that time, the 75th year was an important cornerstone, and the celebrations were celebrated, and they were the same dates that we were raised in. We are now heading towards the 100th year of our republic. So there's nothing wrong here. A minister of the Republic of Turkey has been named after a hospital, which is the necessity of a sense of loyalty, that is my opinion. About this spanking, I'll bring it to our Minister of Agriculture. Shap is something I know a little bit about, because animalism is very common in Erzurum. I know they've done some very remarkable work, and I know they've been keeping an eye on it. It's just a disease that spreads really fast, very easily. So, as well as the efforts of our Department of Agriculture, well-trained farmers, I think their efforts have a very important role to play here, because they're so easily infected. I'll take the matter to our Minister as you described it.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0069par0551	And if there could be a study of delaying loans during the time of these animal markets, there are demands of our villagers.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0068par0552	Postpone for what, sir?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0069par0553	Because the animal markets are closed, they can't pay their debts because they can't make sales; loans are delayed.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0068par0554	Yes, Mr. Congressman. I'll have Malatya Hekimhan's case with the pediatrician and the dentist evaluated immediately. The more ambulances he needs, Mr. Agha, the more ambulances we'll have. I mean, there's a certain number of people moving out of there, how many people moving in a month, how many ambulances, how many people we need, how many people we can move in, we can evaluate them. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0070par0558	Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0071par0559	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, what is said about writers who are not in your opinion is your measure of endurance and democracy. The public's concern is increasing in this regard. I want to express it. In addition, health projects related to hospital investments have been among AKP's most important commitments to increased emergency health care and increased health care and health care projects from the oral and dental centre to the mental health centre and hospital. But, unfortunately, no attempt has been made yet. In order for health tourism to improve, these investments are of great importance for the adoption of the institution of health free zones. On the other hand, the land of Cricket Children's Hospital and the site of Lotus State Hospital were discussed, transferred, and other... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There are speculations that there are designs being made. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0072par0566	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0073par0568	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in Gaziantep, we strongly condemn the brutal assault of Dr. Ersin Arslan. We welcome the name of our late doctor to the hospital. We have no objection to it being given, on the contrary, but the name of another hospital does not need to be changed just because the name of the late Dr. Ersin Arslan was given to a hospital. Everyone has to take care of our Republic. I strongly condemn the change of the name given to the 75th year of the Republic. If the AKP Group accepts what the Minister has to say, I'll leave it to the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0074par0571	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Secretary, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0075par0573	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0074par0574	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0075par0575	My dear President, we'll also inform our esteemed MP about our investments in Bursa. We're in serious investment efforts. There is a problem here: TOKI was given a place, not given a place... as if the TOKI were not an institution of this country, but as if the TOKI were not serving this country, that is wrong.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0076par0577	There's no way the hospital's gonna...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0075par0578	Let me put it this way: In all our provinces, including Bursa, our plans for health buildings have been completed, which will take us the next 40 years. Let us present these plans to you, sir. We also do our jobs under these plans. Again, the Republic is our crown. However, I would like to say that the 75th year of the Republic was called the 75th Year's Hospital... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it's not right to look for anything wrong with the Republic or the Republic in changing the name of our republic by the name of a Minister of Health.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0077par0582	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0078par0583	People will judge him.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0075par0584	People do.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0077par0585	There's a common motion on Article 2 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first sentence of Article 5 of Article 5 of Act 6197 shall be removed from the text of the article. Demir Çelik Oktay Vural Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu Öznur Çarik Mehmet Doğan Kubat Do you agree with the commission? Sir, we'll leave it to discretion. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0079par0595	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit01spe0077par0596	I'm reading the reason: If the first joke of Article 6 of the Law (A) occurs, the relevant pharmacist is already banned from the profession according to Article 4 of the law. So it can't open a pharmacy until it's gone, which interferes with the profession of pharmaceuticals. Therefore, the sentence is intended to be removed from the text because it lacks the ability to apply. I submit the joint motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The following joke is added to Article 6 of the Law 3-6197. The permit will be revoked, and the pharmacist cannot open a pharmacy for five years, provided the pharmacy finds out that it has been opened. If the practice is made among pharmacists, the ban on opening pharmacies is imposed on all of them. There are no motions on matter. There's no demand for words. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 17 of the Law No. 4-6197 has been changed as follows. Those who are under arms for military service while they have a pharmacy 17 - while they have a pharmacy and are responsible for military service will receive master's or doctorate training during this training; MP, mayor, members of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Association's presidential council will appoint a responsible director in the pharmacy as long as they continue these tasks. The salary and legal costs of the president of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Association of Pharmaceuticals, which will be assigned to the pharmacy of members of the Presidential Court, are paid from the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals. No one wants to talk about matter. No motions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. Article 26 of the Law No. 5 - 6197 has been changed in the following way. The records of daily prescriptions in the pharmacy are kept according to the procedures set by the Ministry of Health. No one wants to talk about matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Article 28 of the Law No. 6 - 6197 has been changed in the following way. MEDEDEDE 28 - Human medicines, traditional herbal products registered to the Ministry of Health; homeopathic medical products that are subject to the permission of the Ministry of Health, special medical foods, and special medical-purpose baby foods are sold in the pharmacy. The relevant ministry can sell permits, licenses or prices, or imported food supplements, pharmaceuticals and agricultural medicines, chemical products and other health products, veterinary products, except for veterinary biological products, cosmetic products, health ministry-set medical supplies, children's products, children's foods and all the scientific literature that are used in the metabolic disorders of adults and the Association of Turkish Pharmaceuticals. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Article 35 of the Law No. 7 - 6197 has been changed in the following way. ▪ MEDDE 35 - Pharmaceuticals who are responsible during the time of the pharmacy's service, the second pharmacist and acolyte pharmacists are obliged to be in charge of their duties. Pharmacist or responsibilities managers who have to leave the pharmacy for more than 24 hours with sickness and sari excuses report to the county health department with a letter. If the departure period is to continue for 15 days, the pharmacy will have a second pharmacist, or a pharmacist who does not have a pharmacy on condition to be reported to the county health department, or he will take custody of the municipality's free medical examiners. If the departure period exceeds 15 days, the pharmacy will be tasked with appointing a manager. Otherwise, the pharmacy will be closed. In places with more than one pharmacy, the pharmacy can be kept closed for no more than two years at the request of a pharmacist. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. Matter accepted. Article 38 of the Law 8-6197, dated 12/6/1933, and Article 18 of the Law on Murakabe of Drugs 2313, has been lifted from effect. The place listed in Article 1 of Article 40 of Article No. 6197 has been changed to the apothecary. The commissioner has a request for an explanation on Article 8 of the Commission. Yes, Mr. President. Mr. President, I demand that the terms mentioned in the article be corrected. Thank you. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse. Matter accepted. The following temporary clauses are added to the Law No. 9-6197. In the calendar year when this clause is in effect, there are no provisions on the right to practice pharmaceuticals and the obligation to open a pharmacy according to the population and to work as an apothecary, according to the population, for one time on those who have earned the right to study and have earned the right to study in pharmaceutical schools. These people can hand over pharmacies, which are owned and responsible for their work, for once. Pharmaceuticals, with a free pharmacy at the time of its execution, can and will be able to transport and overthrow its pharmacy out of its district without any restrictions. There is no request for a word on the interim Article 3 of Article 9 of Article 9. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Now, I'm reading the interim Article 4 of Article 9: THE regulation for the implementation of this Law is adopted by the Ministry of Health within six months of the adoption of the Law. There is no request for a word on the interim Article 4 of Article 9 of Article 9 of the article. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the interim Article 4 of Article 9 of Article 9 has been accepted. MADDE 10- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the whole proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... The offer has been accepted and legalized, good luck and good luck. [[Applause]] I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0077par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 108th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia and the State Commission Report, with the draft of the Dair Law, which is in the 3rd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 226 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Lütfü Türkkan is a member of the Movement Party (Lütfü). [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0080par0010	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the draft law between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia that ratification of the Air Transport Agreement is appropriate. I salute your high council. The Ottoman Empire ruled in the Balkans for about five and a half centuries. In Macedonia, he came to the Monastery at 1382, then to Skopje in 1392. During a period of about five and a half centuries after the Battle of Kosovo Square on June 28, 1389, the Ottomans ruled that land. Until the Balkan War, our reign in this land continued, and then we returned to Turkey. Many of our relatives, a significant part of them, still stay there as a flight attendant. Our relationships continue, and our traditions and customs remain with firm friendships. Many of our citizens who migrated from place to place are still continuing their relationship with it. The Republic of Turkey is seen by our descendants in Macedonia as a refuge and a great state. So from that, I'd like to address some of the problems with our family members here. One of them is a geography that has witnessed wars in a very serious way, and has recently witnessed wars. The most important problem of the Turks there is the safety issue. There's only one way to get past the safety issue, and they also have a demand to be granted Turkish citizenship in order to ensure that those Turks will be able to come to Turkey at any time of danger. In this regard, the government of the Republic of Turkey remains severely indifferent, as it has been in the past. In Macedonia, Turks struggle to exist. Thanks to those who misled the government during the Justice and Development Party's rule of Turkey for nearly ten years, Albania is being severely treated as second-class citizens, such as in Turkey. (x) 226 S. The Numbered Print is included in the report. He sees it. To be a Turk is to be a criminal there, too. The Turkish word also creates allergies during the Justice and Development Party. Look, we're all very concerned about our past relationship with the Albanian subjects of the Ottoman loyalty. We have relatives, we have children, we have grandparents, but as a result, we've reached the 21st century, in the Balkans, the first driving force of the Turkish assimilation is Albanians. If you can't keep the Turks there, don't think that only the Albanians and Turkey, where we are bound by Islam, will continue to function there, never and never. To maintain its presence there, Turkey must take great care of the Turks and Turkish. It should help schools that study Turkish. I appreciate a significant part of the work that TİKA (TİKA) has done there, but I said again, because of misappropriations in the region, misdirections, the reflections of daily politics in Turkey, the Turks there are victims. The Turks are treated like foster children. The Albanians, as always, were there with the Turks, where the Ottomans -- remember -- were always Albanians, so we always delivered the treasure to them. There are Albanians at the head of the money right now, and we've handed it over to them. I'd like to give you an example: the Turks have a beautiful market in Skopje, where the Ottomans have a beautiful one, called the Old Market, where you can see all the Ottoman tracks. That's where you see the Ottoman trails you can't see in the most important cities of Turkey. Against the Turks, they brought the statue of the condemned Gjergi Kastriati, and planted it in the middle of the Turkish market, and the Turkish government could not remain indifferent. The state of Turkey is an important state. Its presence, its sound, its noise, its presence. If it makes any noise about it, that knife that stabs the Turks in the heart comes out of there. Gjergi Kastrioti was the first to rise up against the Ottomans at the beginning of the Balkan War, but the reason they planted that statue is because some friends who were too blinded to understand its wisdom continue to insult the Turks. I want the government of the Republic of Turkey to continue to support Macedonia's NATO membership, as in the past period. Because Greece has a very serious reserve of names. Macedonia is a very difficult state to sustain in the Balkans with a population of 2 million. NATO membership is also vital to the Turks and Muslim elements there. I expect him to give serious support for NATO membership. I'd also like to talk about a technical component of this agreement: airway transport already exists, it's going on. However, our contact with the people there, our contact with the region, will make Turkey's presence much more serious in the Balkans, so in Europe, it will make it much more stable. Turkish Airlines is following the wrong policy there, following the wrong policy. There is no difference between any city of Anatolia and Macedonia's city of Skopje or Ohrid, but its prices are about twice as high. It weakens, weakens the relationship between our relatives and our two countries. If the government gives Turkish Airlines any advice on the matter, it will make people in the region's relations with Turkey a little more comfortable. I pray to God that this bill be blessed, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0081par0025	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Proposal on the bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND COMMUNITY OF MAKEDONIA COMMUNITY CONTINUES THE CONTACT OF AIR CONTROL The approval of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, which was signed in Skopje on August 19, 2011. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the open vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Court of the State of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia have decided that the Agreement for Air Transport is in order to be ratified, as a result of an open vote: [[x]] The bill is accepted and legalized. I wish you well, I wish you luck. Now, we will begin talks with the European Bank of Development and Development, which are ranked in the 4th place, with the Court of Guvernors' Decisions 137 and 138 of the Council of Guvernors' Decisions Approved. The commission is in place. The government is in place. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 179 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 179 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill shall be passed on to the articles of the bill, those who accept... those who refuse... the amendments of the bill are accepted. The development of 137 and 138-year-old guardians of the Constitution of the Council of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the United States of the United States of Europe and the United States of Europe and the United States of the United States of Europe and the United States of Europe and the United States of Europe and the United States of Europe and the United States of Europe and the United States of Europe and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United States of Turkey and the United Article 1-1 (1) The provisions of the Council of Guvernors 137 and 138 on the amendment to the European Development Bank and Development Foundation Agreement have been approved. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm starting a vote on the entire bill. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Council of Council of Guvernors 137 and 138 in relation to the amendment to the European Bank of Development and Development Foundation Agreement. ▪ The number of votes used: 200 [[x]] The bill is by law, good luck and good luck. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gabon in accordance with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 235 rows. A request for word on the entire bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill shall be passed on to the articles of the bill, those who accept... those who refuse... the amendments of the bill are accepted. THE CONTROL OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION AND GABON REPUBLICITY CONTROL TO CONTINUATION IN THE UNIVERSE OF TURISM INVESTIGATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 25 March 2011 in Gabon, where the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gabon were signed. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Proposal on matter? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Proposal on matter? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gabon to ratify the Co-operation Agreement on Tourism Areas: "The number of votes used : 200 [[xx]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. (x) 235 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. (xx) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Economic Co-operation Organization, Trade and Development Bank, under which the Central Agreement Approved Agreement is in order. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 97 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mehmet Günal is an Antalya MP who wants to speak on the whole bill. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0082par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, I made a promise on this deal. It's a bill of Ecobank. It's been established before, and it's been renovated in terms of its contract. Dear friends, the Association of Economic Co-operation was founded in 1985 as a continuation of Regional Co-operation for Uplifting, a very old root of the ECO. In fact, some work has been done earlier, but there has been some difficulty following the revolution in Iran, and with the renegotiated agreement, the Co-operation Agency has been activated, and following further developments in the region... Mr. President, I can't hear myself say it, but my friends are probably waiting for a vote. Every time I say, if they calm down, there's still time for a vote, a little bit more...
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0083par0138	Congressmans, if the humming stops a little bit, we'll know more about the preacher, sir, please.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0082par0139	I'll tell you a few things that will fill you in, too. Dear friends, this is actually a very important organization, but unfortunately, as it deserves, neither can Turkey, nor can other countries. I attended a lot of meetings when I was an Assistant Undersecretary at the DPT, and at that time some work began. Ecobank is one of the products, but it didn't get to the level we wanted. You know, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, there were new opportunities in this geography, new countries formed, and after that independence, the number of members rose to 10 in 1992. Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan, as well as all other Turkish republics, belong to this community, the Organization for Co-operation. For him, in this developing world, in the process of transitioning to multipolarism in the globalized world, in fact, this Economic Co-operation Organization, along with all Turkish republics, includes a structure that can help strengthen our brotherhood as a result of the economic and financial infrastructure of a very important collaboration with these countries. Dear friends, on this bench where I am, if you remember, the President of Kyrgyztan had made a speech in the past few months. I find a word he said very important in that sense, and he said nice things. He said: "There are those who want to destroy Kirgyzistan through loans, and if we are in solidarity with the Turkish nation, we will overcome them with Turkey, and even if we fail to establish the Dutch Turkish rights, we must at least make a strong Turkish union." For this, not only Turkey, but the other Turk. (x) 97 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Their government must also stand. What they say is about loans and compression, about standing up. For him, it is really important that Ecobank will be able to perform his functions in this sense to contribute to the development of these Turkish republics, because this unity... although the President of Kyrgyztan has said that in the past months, the Union of Soviets will one day fall apart at the end of the week called the Great Leader Ataturk, May 19th Youth and Sports Day. We need to take care of our relatives there now, we need to be with them. That doesn't mean that we should go to political unity with them now, but in cultural terms, let's improve our economic co-operation. For him, Ecobank, in the sense that we just told you, these countries are set up to perform a very important function in order for them to stand on their own feet, to find a loan for investments. Currently, however, trade agreements with other countries, outside Ecobank, must be signed. We couldn't get here because of some reservations. Through the resources of this bank and its leadership, hopefully, this will help us build economic infrastructure, financial infrastructure, which will help build the Turkish economic community to a certain extent on the way to the Turkish union we've been talking about in the years to come. I also think that doing so under the Co-operation Agency would reduce the reaction of some states in the region to a significant platform to co-operate in terms of culture, economically, financially, co-operation. Ecobank has loans so far, but right now resources are inadequate, and it is not possible for all countries to take full advantage of them. I quickly took a quick look at the loans he's been giving for the past three years. From 2008, he started giving. It's not very diverse in terms of industry. Some of the large-scale firms have taken out loans from around here, but it's obvious that it needs a little more improvement. And recently, dear friends, there has been a general problem with Ekobank, which is reflected in the press, and ECO (ECO), which is that the administration is now in Iran. Of course, Iran is currently facing some sanctions in the international community, especially in the financial area, in terms of the Central Bank, and is currently running for four years in the Iranian representative of the rotating presidency, the Vice President of the Central Bank -- if I remember correctly. Regarding that, the press has warned that there will be developments that could lead to some difficulties. From here, I'll tell Ecobank's rulers and our relevant Ministry of Development, the State Department, that this should not be reflected in the economic dimension. Why do I say it? Because, unfortunately, we've seen the result of the sanctions from South Korea to Tehran. Our energy minister said: "We are stopping 20 per cent of the buy of raw oil from Iran. " It corresponds to about 10 per cent of Turkey's oil purchase, and it has cost us a serious price. For him, dear friends, I think this Ekobank will perform an important function in terms of effective functioning, and beyond that, regional integration of the Economic Co-operation Agency, in order to ensure integration with Turkish republics and neighbouring countries. I think it should be dealt with quickly, hopefully, away from political concerns, away from the pressure that has been put on us internationally, and that some work in banking, as well as in other sectors, especially in foreign trade, should be done quickly and open the way for this union and for further developments in these countries. Of course, it's not the kind of Eurasia union that Russia says, but I think that the development of Pakistan, Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan, outside Russia, is also going to contribute to peace in the region as well as to the kind of problems that embrace Eurasia with its own regional dynamics instead of the Great Middle East Project. Here's our approach: Turkey's foreign policy has to be a policy that includes all external factors but maintains a multi-directional, sensitive balance. For him, if we take this opportunity, the Turkish world, the Turkish republics and Turkey can lay the foundation, as the late Prime Minister, Alparslan Turkesh, envisioned in 1933, to provide this far-sighted union in 1944, and finally, as Mr. Atambayev, our President of Kyrgyztan, said here on this bench, could form a co-operation between the Turkish states. Far from politics, he wishes that this would be supported as a national project, and that the Economic Co-operation Agency would, on this occasion, be a step forward in achieving the goals set in its purpose, to achieve the goals set in its purpose, to wish it well, to have respect.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0084par0153	Thank you. There's no further demands on the entire bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO CONTINUE THE CONTROL OF ENGLISH REPUBLICITY AND ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OF CONTACT AND CONTROLATION OF CENTER ACTIVATION ACTIVATION ACTIVATES TO CONTINUE THE CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION OF THE COMMUNITY OF TRODUCTIONS The approval of the Central Agreement between the Turkish Republic's Government and Economic Co-operation Organization (EİT) Bank, signed in Ankara on December 3, 2010, was approved. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the voting process and give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Economic Co-operation Organization, and the Bank of Commerce and Development, in accordance with the Central Agreement Approved by the Agreement: "The number of votes used : 195 [[x]] (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. We will begin talks with the 7th-place Economic Co-operation Organisation, Trade and Development Bank Bank Association Agreement 21th Agreement Compromise Approvement of Decision Responsible and Foreign Affairs Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with 101 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's been a long time since we've had a meeting, and we've had a lot of work to do, and we've had a lot to do, and we've had a lot to do, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it, and we've had a lot to do with it. MADDE 1- (1) Agreement on Economic Co-operation Organization Trade and Development Bank Association Agreement 21/1/2011 has been approved. There is no demand of word on item 1 of the bill. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no demand for word on Article 2. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There is no demand of words on Article 3. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Council of Ministers, I move that the Court of Economic Co-operation Organization, the Court of Commerce and Development Bank, shall submit an open vote on the 21st Article of the Foundation Agreement for the Approvement of the Decision on Resolving of the 21st Amendment: [[xx]] (x) 101 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. (xx) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. Now, we will begin talks between the Turkish Republic government and the Foreign Commission reports, which are in the 8th place, in accordance with the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyz. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 153 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTINUES TO CONTROL THE CONTRACT OF CONTROL FOR THE CONTACT OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROL IN THE CONTROL OF THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY OF TURKEY Article 1- (1) Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyz, signed in Bishkek on May 27, 2009, has been approved. There is no demand of word on Article 1. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who do not accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. I'll start the voting process and give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I present the conclusion of the open vote of the Court's Bill on the Perimeter between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyz to ratify the Co-operation Agreement on the Environmental Protection Area. (x) 153 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. ▪ Number of votes used: 202 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck, good luck. Members of parliament, in the 9th place, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyztan-Turkey Manas University, we will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the European Commission Report and with the Dair Law Charter, which is ranked 10th in line with the 10th Amendment to the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank Foundation Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 178 rows. He doesn't want a word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. THE CONSIDERING OF THE CONTROL CONTACT AND CONTRACTION BANK CONTINUES TO CONTINUE THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION OF THE CONTACT OF CONTROLATION The decision of the Council of Guvernors on the amendment of the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank Co-operation Agreement has been approved. There is no demand of word on item 1 of the bill. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There is no demand for word on Article 2. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 178 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. There is no demand of words on Article 3. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm starting a vote on the bill. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I move that the Court of Guvernors for the Amendment to the Black Sea Trade and Development Bank Foundation Agreement is appropriate to ratify its decision: "The number of votes used: 198 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Covenant for Co-operation between Energy and Mineral Resources within the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been printed and distributed by 59 rows. On the whole bill, Mr. Sinan Oğan, MP of the National Movement Party Iğdır, asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0085par0296	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to ratify the Covenant for Co-operation between Energy and Mineral Resources. Mr. President, I know the power has little to do with these matters, but if they do at least have the decency to listen in the House, I think we'll be able to discuss some things more freely here, so that the House doesn't turn it into a fairground.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0084par0298	Congressmans, if you'll just stop humming a little bit, we'll have a better chance of listening to the preacher. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0085par0300	Mr. President, they didn't listen to you, as you can see, the humming continues. Please keep the peace. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 59 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0086par0303	Please address the General Assembly, Mr. Okan.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0085par0304	Dear lawmakers, we have also witnessed recently that the work on the Turkish world has been weakened in our recent time in Kyrgyztan. Afghanistan is also a country for Turkey with both our historical friendship relations and strategic interests. Therefore, in our relations with Afghanistan, both the size of Congress and the size of the government, I would like to say that we, the National Movement Party, are behind all positive initiatives. In this framework, we wish that this Covenant Zaptif, also signed with Afghanistan, would be supported by the National Movement Party... that these works be concluded immediately and that necessary initiatives would be made after the ratification of the Covenant Zapt. Afghanistan is important. Why does it matter? Because Afghanistan today is directly concerned with the terrorist dimension of Turkey. Afghanistan is our concern for the withdrawal of American and NATO troops after 2014. For us, it is very important that stability or instability in Afghanistan directly affect Central Asia, and therefore Turkey's interests in the region, and, of course, our relations with Afghanistan, as well as the energy sources of our agreement today, and this agreement is very important. We, of course, know that China, which is not on any side of this issue, has made significant contributions to the energy projects in Afghanistan, while continuing our efforts in Afghanistan to give both martyrdom in NATO and Turkey. Today, China is the largest foreign investor in Afghanistan. Today, China is in control of its major energy sources in Afghanistan. In the gold mines, especially in the Takhar region, gold mines are tendered to China today. In the same way, copper mines are controlled by India and China because there is not a single Turkish company involved in the tenders... the richest thing in Afghanistan is the gold mine, the Chinese monopoly; copper tenders, Chinese contracts. China companies will soon enter tenders in Afghanistan, especially in the Serpol region. Likewise, Turkish companies, known as the Amuderian basin, have no preparation in the Amudery basin, where rich oil sources will be tendered within four months. Likewise, in the regions of Andhoy and Akina -- near the Turkish border -- we see Canadian companies rule there. There is a pipeline project that will be completed in 2013, and Turkey is not even aware of this pipeline project, because as someone who is closely monitoring these issues, no written document, no document has been found anywhere. It is the Iranian-Tacikistan gas pipeline, which will pass through the northern part of Afghanistan, the Turkish region. We're talking about an Afghanistan with a population of 30 million people, an Afghanistan with 6 million Turks in it. We're talking about our historical origins, historical brotherhood, language, and religion, Afghanistan, but in Afghanistan, unfortunately, we have not been able to get any part of the tender beyond supporting American and NATO troops there. Hopefully, with the signing of the 59th-place agreement, there will be Turkey in Afghanistan's energy market, in its market. Turkey must pursue such tenders in this region at its limits. The companies that receive such tenders need to be with Turkey. Unfortunately, Turkey has recently turned its face completely into Middle Eastern geography, with great pleasure as the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project, and Turkey has no such problem as a Turkish world, Afghanistan, and unfortunately the region is completely under control by the Chinese, the Indian, the Canadian. Soros once said that Turkey's most important export material is a soldier. This is actually a major insult to Turkey, and today only its soldiers are being used in Turkey. Turkey has a certain technology capacity beyond its military capacity in Afghanistan; it has construction capacity; it can use it. Turkey has important experiences in the field of energy, can use it, and Turkish companies can easily enter these energy tenders there. But for that to happen, behind Turkey, behind Turkish companies, there must be a government with an ideal Turkish world in its heart, which unfortunately we do not see today. Unfortunately, we can't see a government that supports Turkish companies in the Turkish world and Afghanistan. We support this motion because nothing has been done to Afghanistan, which is better than nothing, but it is incomplete. After 2014, this will be discussed at the NATO summit in Chicago next week -- the Karzai ▪4 billion dollars should be given to us every year. All international forces are negotiating this, Britain, Italy, France, Afghanistan are making bilateral agreements with Afghanistan and are already trying to secure their positions after 2014, but unfortunately we see that Turkey has no strategy for what to do after 2014. We also see that Turkey's policy in Afghanistan can only be a policy carried out by the soldier in this sense. On the one hand, we send the military to Silivri, to other military prisons, but on the other hand, we have to tell them that Turkey exists in Afghanistan with the presence of the soldier there. When you pull the soldier out of there, unfortunately, in Afghanistan, nowhere, at any point, we see that you're not a political adult. So when we consider that Afghanistan is an important point in the regional strategic sense, that Afghanistan is a country that, on the one hand, has relations with China and relations with Iran, on the other hand, where we see that Central Asia is at a point where it can always hold Central Asia under pressure, and we think that the radical elements in Afghanistan are not enough to influence Turkey's vital interests, such as Central Asia. Turkey's relations with the Turkish world -- not only with Afghanistan -- still have a major problem. We are aware that you have no interest in the Turkish world, but at least for the sake of our interests there, you need to take more interest in that area. Turkey's agreement with Afghanistan is important in this sense, and with the support of this agreement, Turkey must now sit down and reflect on the administration in Afghanistan after 2014. After the withdrawal of the U.S.A. from Iraq, we see the situation in Iraq. You've become almost hostile today with your brothers in Iraq until yesterday. In Syria, until yesterday, you call what you said "brother", "betraying" today. Before it's too late, you can set up a strategy associated with Afghanistan, or you'll be in a situation in Syria. The situation in Afghanistan does not look good after 2014. Afghanistan also needs to be clear on the status of the Turkish soldier after 2014. In parentheses, the future of the investments that we've made over there has to be determined now. It's just that if you put the issue on the activities of the soldier there, when there's a draft in 2014, you don't know what you're going to do like fish out of water. That's why you need to sit down and settle an Afghanistan strategy, valuable MPs, and I'm speaking to the government in that sense: these issues are our national issues. These issues are not political issues and are the vital interests of Turkey. So I wish this law on Afghanistan to be a blessing and auspicious to our nation, but I also have to stress that this law is not enough. Once again, the interests of Turkey are at great risk in Afghanistan after 2014. For Afghanistan after 2014, arms must be rolled up today. My greetings, my compliments.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0087par0319	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. There's no further demands on the entire bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION WITH AFGANISTANIAL REPUBLICATION OF COMMUNITY IN ACTIVITY OF ENERGY AND MINARAL EQUIPTIONS IN THE AGENTIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF CONTINUATION OF COMPLICATION OF COMPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on February 17, 2011 in Ankara. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the State of the Republic of Afghanistan for Energy and Mineral Resources, that it is appropriate to ratify the Covenant for Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 193 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, our Minister of Development, will give a thank-you speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0088par0351	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. I especially want to thank our entire group of parties for their support for our agreements. I'd just like to brief you on what our esteemed congressman has just mentioned. Afghanistan and the Turkish republics are a very important geography. Not just in the military sense, but in many ways, we actually have very close relations with these regions. On the one hand, we provide the highest dosage of technical support through TICA. In Afghanistan, for example, we supported hospitals from educational institutions to various projects as the Republic of Turkey. We're doing some very serious work again in Kyrgyztan. Just recently, you know, there's been a visit, and as the past debts have been erased, a serious sacrifice has been made to the future. If you think about the economic size of Kyrgyztan, a new commitment to financing has been established, a support that means a lot to that size. With other republics, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzistan, they continue to have very serious relations with the other republics, commercial, economic relations with the business world, especially there. It's a coincidence, perhaps, that since I've just been in Congress, I've had a meeting with the Minister of Economics in Afghanistan myself. As the Ministry of Development, we have developed an institutional relationship with the Ministry of Economics there. We've sent teams from here, we've put our friends there on project, planning, capacity developer programs. Again, we have hosted delegations from Afghanistan in Turkey, and we offer them all kinds of technical support in these matters because we know that a significant portion of the money that goes there is really squandering, not becoming a real benefit to the Afghan people. And we continue to be sensitive to our capacity developer programs in order to ensure that. We've just discussed these issues with the Afghan Minister of Economy again. Our esteemed Defence Minister will be in Afghanistan again in the first week of June, and then our Foreign Minister will visit Afghanistan. So as a government, we're working very hard at these things, we're doing everything we can, we're using our resources to the full, because as these geographys are economically important to us, politically, culturally, humanly, very important areas, the areas where we share the same civilization. So, we can't go into much detail now, but let's be sure that we're in all kinds of work and effort as the Republic of Turkey about the future of these regions, of course, in our capacity. I felt the need to make this information. I salute you all. Thank you again.
tbmm-2012-05-17sit02spe0089par0360	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report, which now ranked 12th, in accordance with the adoption of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Afghanistan and the Government of the Islamic Republic. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 127 rows. There's no demand for word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) 127 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. TURKEY REPUBLICITY AND AFGANISTAN ISLAM REPUBLIC THE ACTIVATION OF AIR ACTIVATION BEHIND THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS OF THE BLOOD TO FIND THE SLEEPING The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, which was signed in Ankara on March 24, 2011. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There is no demand for word on Article 3. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to ratify the Air Transport Agreement: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 192 [[x]] In this way, the bill has been adopted and legalized. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (May 22nd 2012), to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with oral question motions, draft and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
