tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Malatya MP Öznur Çukık. Here you go, Mr. Çurk.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the International Fight Against Violence Against Women November 25th, and I salute the grand delegation. My esteemed deputies, women, honors and customs, are the original owners of the nest. A woman is a pillar of the family and a family is a pillar of society. The woman is not only part of the human world, she is the one who transforms the world with her body, with her soul, with her sensitivity, with her compassion, with her mind. Women who make up more than 50 per cent of our country's population are our national strength. Violence against women has become a universal-sized wound, chronicizing from the past to the future. Violence doesn't discriminate, it affects all women. The global conscience to face violence must also rise for all the oppressed women, all the oppressed mothers, all the oppressed children, especially Syria, Arakan, Somalia and Palestine. Because there is no nation of violence, no language, no religion, no race, no religion. No culture, no tradition, and no religion offers or excuses cruelty to a woman, and in the end, when the Lord made us, the caliph of the earth, he did not make it sexist when he made it clear in his scriptures. We are the people of a Prophet who was brought up when the daughters were buried alive, and the women were of no avail to him. Dear lawmakers, we need to look for domestic violence at the root of violence in society as well as at the core, as we focus on violence towards women's rights violations in the focus of studies. Family and violence are two words that shouldn't come together. When people don't use violence to their favorite friend, they're sad to see violence in their homes, their children, their wives. This is just a result of thinking of your child or your wife as your property. Sadly, the damage done by women and children, where they should be most secure, in their own homes, where they expect the most love and respect, is devastating to their wives, brothers, and fathers. Because it's repeated over and over again, and unfortunately, it creates a learning despair. Let's not forget that gender-based violence is not a violent act of a bunch of psychopathic men, unfortunately, it's a learned code. It is our duty to change this code to show that violence is not the answer. No one thinks about beating up a man on the street to express his violence, because there's always an sanction. There must also be social sanctions, such as legal sanctions, for violence within the house. The state has to protect the family by the principle of the social state. Our government has done a lot of work to demonstrate its determination to fight violence, realizing that families who have been de-violenced have expressed healthy societies. We have issued the Law on the Protection of the Family, especially in the Istanbul Convention, and the Protection of Violence Against Women. With this law, every female and family member is under state protection against violence, and not just criminal sanctions, but preventive and protective measures. We've set up the anti-violent and monitoring centers. We also provided co-ordination among all public institutions, financial assistance and care for the woman who suffered violence. Turkey sided with the CEDAW Convention in 1985. In 2010, the CEDAW Committee stated that the ban against the headscarf was a violation of women's rights and a violation of human rights, and demanded that the violence against women be eliminated by Turkey. Mr. President, when I conclude my speech, I would like to address the wounds of all our women, our children who have witnessed this violence, and, moreover, the hearts of those who practice violence with a poem by Azeri poet Ramiz Rövşen. ▪ The people are not equal, the ancestor's honey, He's got a coward, he's got a man. But after each person's death She needs a beautiful woman with a black paltar. Who will be blindfolded when you die? Will you have a wardrobe or a brother? In this world, maybe the one who cries at you the most She'll be the woman you make cry. She says. I say no to violence against women all together, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0003par0034	Thank you, Mr. Çurk. The second off-the-book statement is from Edirne MP Kemal Millendereli, who wants to speak on the anniversary of the liberation of Edirne (November 25th). Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs for the liberation of Edirne (November 25th). I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, between November 17th and 27th last week, we celebrated the days of the liberation of Edirne and our counties, Longköpru, Keşan, Ipsala, Enez, Havsa, Meric, Lalapaşa and Suloglu, but we celebrated the days of the liberation of our provinces. On October 11, 1922, after the Mudanya Auction, the Thracian occupation of Greece, which had been evacuated to the Meric River, was again liberated by our national Liberation War. This region has been occupied four times by Bulgarians, Russians and Greeks in 90 years before the liberation. The people of this region were persecuted, they saw deaths, they gave tens of thousands of martyrs, they lived in captivity and migration. Therefore, the people of Thrace, the people of Rumeli, the Edirnes, appreciate it differently because they pay the price for freedom and independence. Sadly, however, the festivals, which have been celebrated enthusiastically since the 1922 days of salvation, have no longer existed. In accordance with the new national holiday regulations, the festivals of salvation, such as our other national festivals, have been banned from the areas, from the squares, and from the conference halls of schools, and from the parades of parades and lanterns. The Thracians, whose culture and independence from the depths of the empire have internalized the meaning of freedom and independence, who live in the richness of multiculturalism, who have the pride of living and living the values of our Ataturk, who have not had the first holiday of salvation in the village of the Tower near Edirne, who have burned the first shepherd's fire three days after the Mondros Foundation. Our people, as they do every year, have gone on the road with the joy of the holidays, but every year they have been deprived of the official parades and festivals, which are carried out with enthusiasm, of the daughter, of the children, of the children, of the children, of the old, of the young, of the tradesman, of the merchant. Look, this is an old lady we met on the parade floor this week, son. I've been celebrating the holiday for 70 years. Would they take this away from us too? He asks. When another elderly aunt asks her daughter, "Come on, aren't we going to the festival?" She asks her daughter, "Mom, the holiday is banned, there is no holiday, there is no holiday, there is no salvation. I'd like to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, that the people who come to their holiday places with their stools must gather their stools and return home in grief, that there is a deep sadness last week in Edirne. Dear lawmakers, what does the AKP Power expect, and what is its goal, by banning our national holidays, which are the most important days of telling new generations about salvation, freedom, independence? What has this land been despoiling for its own cultural, national values? The people of this land will no longer allow the people of Edirne to fight against the imperialists, against the awareness of freedom, against the awareness of independence, to attempt to dominate the submissive, biatious, puritanical, Scottish understanding of the Wahhabi culture. Edirne will continue to take possession of those values, who appreciate the intellectual, modern values, who have the values of the republic. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0005par0046	Thank you, Mr. Millerdere. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about extravagance and waste. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0006par0051	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, it is the greatest evil that can be done to that person, to try to consume more of a man than it produces, to make more of his income. The greatest good that can be done to a society is to teach it to take its comfort. People who can't balance limited resources and unlimited needs eventually become the prey of others. Waste of resources leads to the loss of social balance. Waste of resources is basically a waste of the future. Recently, waste has surrounded the state and society like a cancer tumor. Society is dominated by luxury, luxury, vanity, and consumption. The state bureaucracy is doing everything it can to get people to have a wasteful ideology. The current power implements the economy of waste, encouraging waste and consumption. Almost every institution that is desecrated from its power benefits is organised by invitations with no shortage of bird's milk or raisins. The gaudy of state officials means legitimizing public displays and opening fireworks, 100,000-strong party meetings held at stadiums, vanity and waste. The ministry bureaucrats' joyrides, the welcomes, invitations, meetings, flowers, wreaths, food are a source of complete waste. Take a look at these, these are brochures of various ministries, each printed in the form of an invitation. With each of these invitations, it is possible to meet a stranger, a guru's morning dinner.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0007par0056	You couldn't find anything else, so you showed me these?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0006par0057	The government, in its ten-year period of power, is pushing the moral boundaries in the spread of pleasure, wastefulness, wastefulness. The government has turned Turkey into an expiration hell, with the government turning its back on non-national money, going between $100 billion and $4 and $6 billion from outside the country. Today, in Turkey, in production and efficiency, there is an eastern, Western ruling society that acts Western in luxury consumption and waste. The ruling authorities are up to their necks in arrogance, egoism and confidence. It surrounds every institution, such as luxury, depression, luxury, cancer tumor. Eat, drink, dress, but beware of waste and arrogance. As Fikret said, the masters of the food eat, and this inn works with your logic. Wasteful is the way of the poor, the orphan, and the orphan. I'd like to give you a few examples of the irresponsible waste of public resources in our country, of poverty, luxury, luxury: For 2012, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism pays rent to the service building in Balgat district for $1,416,000 Turkish liras. The annual rent to the service building, located in the same Ministry's Willows district, is $2,714,000. Again, the money the State Department has paid from 2003 to 2012 is $4,294,588 in an additional service building. A total of $1,820,794 in four years, including $571,973 for 2012, is paid to the building, which is used as an official residence of the State Department. From 2008 to 2012, 10 million 857,134 lira 18 cents were paid for the service wing of the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information. At the price of five years' rent, the service building used by these ministries can be built, if requested, and the prime minister's institution, TOKI, can do so very quickly. The waste is unrecognizable and unrecognizable - food, drinking, flowers, wreaths, meetings, invitations, and money paid for by the tongues. The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources pays $33,000 in 2008 for meals and catering supplies, paying $64,000 in 2012. The meetings with all department units in 2012 cost $2,344,41 euros. The finance ministry paid $2,796,131 lira in definition, organisation, hospitality, food, flower costs for 2012. People's money is spent on wild rent, food, invitations, flowers. The AKP's ruling government is practically subletting the state. There are a few examples of what we count up there. These are concrete indicators of how the AKP's government has squandered public resources. I'm calling from here to the AKP ministers, the prime minister, and the bureaucrats: Take out the money of the nation and stop renting buildings to make a go of it! People are watching you. And when you have lost your power, you will not be held accountable except for what you used to do, and you will be questioned about what you did not do. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0008par0074	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a moment of my word to the lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0009par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask that the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey please warn lawmakers that cars are constantly parked on sidewalks inside parliament. Two: Üskudar, Beykoz, Tuzla, Pendik, Kadıköy, Maltepe, Kartal, Sandzaktepe districts of our districts, where school cleaning was not provided by the Ministry of National Education. However, it is provided by the school-family association as a cleaning crew. In that sense, our students and parents are victims. First of all, I'd like to extend my regards to the Ministry of National Education to both the janitor and the security guard in our schools.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0010par0082	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intervention, I'd like to bring up a problem in Adana. Adana Kalifer district, Çotlu, Dütük, Düzce, Karaoglan village, is a mera area of the village, called Çotlu hill, which will be assigned to Syrian immigrants as settlements by Adana Governorate. This area is a first-class farmland. In this area are the main lines of the pressurized irrigation system, which the DSI spent $40m on. It is strategic in terms of the production pattern, which can be watered within the project for 17,500 decelerates. In Turkey, the earliest forms of onions, potatoes, vegetables, fruits grow in this area. For him, it is extremely dangerous and wrong to place Syrian immigrants in this area. There are many places in Adana that are not used as farmland for Syrian immigrants. Please, by the governor's office, I'd like to place Syrian immigrants in these areas by the government. I'd like you to take this to the government, please. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0013par0092	Mr. President, thank you. Even after a whole summer, Adana was brought neither road nor water. For three years, the 55km between Adana and Kozan has not been delivered or finished. On top of that, we want to place the people of Syria on the Plain of Hearts. I call to power: Please, let them not place these Syrians on the Plain of Hearts of Adana. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0015par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, we followed the case in which three of the 2,800 arrested students, known in public as the Redhack case, were tried as prisoners. The joyful part is that after nine months, the students have gained their freedom. Students Ugur Jahan Okutüdün, Aladdin Karagenç and Emem Kerimoglu are associated with the organisation in a cyber attack, which has been proven by expert reports that access has been provided abroad, only after the attack has been announced from its website, such as Facebook, Twitter, and social networks, to click on news about this attack, or to like it. One of these kids doesn't have a computer or an Internet connection. Another one's been studying two years of computer school for five years. One of them was, on Facebook alone, he clicked on Redhack's website once, and none of them had seen a gun in their lifetime, never touched a gun, and we kept these students in prison for nine months on the charge of being an armed terrorist organization, and that's where advanced democracy reaches in Turkey. I present to the attention of the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0014par0101	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0016par0104	Mr. President, thank you. Turkey has many problems. One of them is an education problem. Unfortunately, many of our schools have no teachers, and Turkey has graduated, trained, and received pedagogic formations; unfortunately, there are no appointments. Turkey is a bleeding wound. I would like to request that the Ministry of National Education be appointed immediately to meet these teachers, the unassigned teachers and the teachers without school. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0017par0107	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0018par0110	Mr. President, the declaration issued at the end of the meeting of the European Court of Judges in Washington has been issued warning that in our country the judiciary is under duress and that the HSYK has become a representative of the government. As opposition to the government, which uses HSYK appointments as a means of pressure on judges, it has also supported our warnings by the declaration of the European Judiciary Association of Judges. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0017par0112	Thank you, Mr. Karaahmetoglu. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0019par0115	Mr. President, of course I'd like a minister of the government to be here. I'd like to point out something important about beet producers. In Ankara, especially in many counties, beets producers face a problem: Farmers who fail to complete their beet quota are fined $44 per ton. What does that mean? For example, if you have taken on a quota of 1,000 tons, if you fail to meet 100 tons, you will face a fine of around $4,400. However, in many counties, such as Haymana, Polatli, this year, there has been a severe drought. And for the beet producers, this drought should be considered, especially to the members of the ruling party. Our beet producers are in a very difficult position, and they're all in debt before they've even delivered the production. I made a promise to draw attention to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0017par0117	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0020par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd love to have the representatives of the government here, too, but I'm hoping that the questions we're going to ask through you will be forwarded to the relevant authorities. Dear President, the flood that took place on October 9, 2012 in the Beşikdüzü district of Tripoli has affected life in the district, causing major damage to homes and workplaces while the roads have become unusable. The Selin financial balance sheet was set at $2m,150,000, along with 63 dwellings, 134 damaged at work. After the disaster, the government promised that the wounds would be covered, and even though the funds could be sent during that time, only $200,000 was sent to the governorship of Tripoli. This has no significant contribution to the Beşikdüzü districts, its tradespeople, or the environment. Therefore, when will the government send over 2 million and 150,000 grants with a financial portal? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0021par0124	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0022par0127	Mr. President, thank you. I don't know what the AKP has against Malatya. Just last year, the AKP set up the missile shield for the protection of Israel, making Turkey the subcontractor of imperialism in the Middle East. Now there's a rumor about Patriot missiles being built in Malatya. Today, Malatya Governorate has issued a request for the release of 8,590 acres of land in the district of Erhaç, Akçadağ district of Erhaç, to the National Ministry of Defence. Now, that makes Malatya a target for all Middle Eastern countries. I want the AKP government to give up the subcontractorship of imperialism and claim its own country and ask Malatya to withdraw its hand.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0023par0130	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0024par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. As if the increase in agricultural inputs was not enough, the government also asks the Adıyaman farmers to return their product support, which was paid between 2006 and 2010. He repossessed some of them, and seized some of them, and seized their tractors, and their accounts. Therefore, I would like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance to conduct a study to correct this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0025par0136	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0026par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, you know, five workers were killed last week in a business accident in Samsun. We immediately arrived there, attended funerals, and conducted inspections at work. As in other workplaces in Turkey, we found that there were not sufficient measures for job safety. The fact that this hatch falls on workers who work under a 100-ton cover shows that there are not enough security measures taken there. A study must be carried out at our workplaces by the Ministry of Social Security as part of the Employment Health and Safety Act, given that 1,600 people lose their lives every year, 4 people die on average, and Turkey is third in line of business accidents around the world. On this occasion, once again, I ask God's mercy on those who have lost their lives, and for those who have been injured, and for the immediate healing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0027par0145	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0028par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Amasya is a city with 8,500 years of history. He raised sultans for the Ottomans, a lovely city where the foundations of the republic were laid. Sadly, from the center of this city, there are truck trucks, passenger buses, and business machines that go to Tokat, Sivas, Çorum. On such days, on holidays, in the rainy weather, traffic is unbearable in our narrow-way Amasya. From here, I ask the ministry, government officials: When will the traffic problem of this historic city be resolved? When will the ten-year environmental road project end? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0029par0152	Thank you, Mr. Clumsy. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0030par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. The commander of the Air Force has resigned in Turkey, but his resignation has not been accepted. With the situation so dire, the Patriot missiles are to be placed on the Syrian border, except by permission of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Foreign personnel coming to Turkey to use Patriots must also be authorized by Parliament. Because, as an exception in Article 92 of the Constitution, the rule that international agreements do not require the approval of foreign soldiers in the acceptance of parliament is for NATO exercises, which is for exercises, for situations like this, and for them. Even to send troops to NATO missions in Kosovo and Afghanistan, Turkey has been authorized by the Grand National Assembly. Is the AKP's government afraid to bring these issues to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, where it is in the majority? That's what I'm asking, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0031par0158	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0032par0161	Thank you, Mr. President. The father of our Deputy Speaker, Mr. Sadik Yakut, passed away last weekend. I offer his father the grace of God, his family, and my fellow deputies, patience and condolences. Again, we celebrated Teacher's Day on November 24th last weekend, but it was a bitter celebration. In a time when teachers and Turkish national education system were in trouble, the celebration of Teachers' Day was supposed to be more enthusiastic, more cheerful, more reassuring to the community, to the nation. On the one hand, the problem of unregistered teachers continues with all its violence; on the other hand, it has not been very positive for the Ministry of National Education, not East Anatolia, Southeast Anatolia, Interior Anatolia, Black Sea Region, and even in İstanbul, where 55-60 students are still in the classrooms. I'd like to extend my regards to a national education system where the problems of our national education system have been resolved and the problem of the unsupervised teachers has been eliminated.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0033par0165	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0034par0168	Thank you, Mr. President. On 16 June 2012, the Prime Ministership issued a general statement in the Official Gazette, which did not mention much in public. Generally, Mr. Prime Minister has announced that all transactions, such as the sale, rental, use of the public or more than half of the capital of all public institutions and institutions will be approved. Aside from the motive, the pending files in the prime minister's office say they found thousands and were not answered. Experts point out that such matters require thousands of pages of processing, that it is difficult for underprivileged individuals to get out of the business, and that they are likely to make wrong decisions. Even during the reign of Ottoman rule, I stress that such practices did not take place. While many institutions and organizations are already in the government's direction, I wonder why the Prime Minister needs such a sentence and if he has a new time to find time from the series. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0035par0172	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Mountain...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0036par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. On November 25 in Adana, BDP Diyarbakır MP Nursel Aydoğan made a demon nest on her shoulder, on her shoulder, on her neck, every 15 days; every 15 days, to scatter the demon nesting on her shoulder, he had to use violence and beat her up. However, we know very well that along with Islam, the persecution of women during the Age of Ignorance has ended, and that women will receive the care they deserve in society. The ideas of the Qur'an and of our Prophet Lord (Muhammad SAW) concerning women are very clear and clear. The heavens are at the feet of mothers. The coming is the clearest sign of this. What will BDP respond to Nursel Aydöğan (Noursel Aydoğan), the Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan, who has been nominated by our religiously sensitive Kurdish citizens to win the vote? I would like to point out that I strongly condemn a mindset that looks at its own religion, its own people.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0037par0180	Thank you, Mr. Mountain. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0038par0183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the National Movement Party Group, we regret the loss of the father of Mr. Sadik Yakut, the deputy speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; we ask the deceased for blessings from Almighty God. Our condolences to all his family, his loved ones, especially Mr. Yakut. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0039par0186	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will have it read and presented to your knowledge: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Court's decision, dated 14/11/2012 and 36, was deemed appropriate for OSCE Parliamentary Assembly President Mr. Riccardo Migliori and his delegation to visit our country as guests of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly On June 29, 2010, three villagers were killed and one villagers were injured in the fire of soldiers who thought the four villagers who went to the mountain to collect thyme near Hassa County of Hatay. A similar incident took place on December 28, 2011 near Uludere district of Şırnak. General General Staff has announced that the operation was carried out on December 28, 2011, as part of the cross-border operation, as a result of intelligence and technical analysis from various sources, that a group of terrorist groups, including the heads of the organization, had been detected in the region, and that the group had been identified by terrorists, and that they were prepared to attack our outposts and base zones at the border, and that their efforts were increased at the border, and that they had been evaluated by a group of terrorists, and that they had been identified by a group of terrorists, and that they had been deployed by a terrorist air force, and that they had been thought that the air forces had been carried out in order to take action within the Iraqi borders of the air force. It's 9:37-22 on December 28, 2011. Between 24 and 28 years old, why were 35 of our citizens bombed and killed, the oldest of whom were 12,13,14,15,16 years old? What were these people's crimes and sins? Is it possible that the people who were killed were considered terrorists, that they were killed as terrorists, that the cause of this tragedy was justified? The General Staff stated that the operation was carried out due to intelligence and technical analysis from various sources, and the MIT said that we didn't provide the intelligence... that the Chief of Staff, the movement at the border, the intelligence linking it to the PKK? What agency or institutions provided the intelligence? Has the information that the PKK is going to cross with the mule arrived 10 days before the incident? Who gave you this intel? What is the reason for the lack of intelligence, since those killed by the F-16 bombing are not PKK? The Chief of Staff was set up by false intelligence? When the operation took place, did ground intelligence take place in the decision-making process after the footage taken from Heron? Or was he satisfied with the images taken from Heron? Is the intelligence sharing mechanism between America and Iraq and Turkey not functioning well? Is it true that the intelligence obtained by U.S. drones was evaluated by U.S. intelligence officers and delivered to the Turkish Air Force in co-operation as an order to bomb? Why are we operating without evaluation, according to our own information, if the United States is right to be evaluated? Do the commanders in the area know about the smuggling in the area? Is smuggling allowed here sometimes? Is it true that even though the incident was reported to the military, the air bombing continued? Is it true that the soldier's smugglers stopped and refused to let them return to their village? Is the intelligence used by the TSK from the Herons, or is it from the ones used by the U.S.A. in Iraq? Why are 12-15-year-olds on terror routes looking for runaway diesels, illegal cigarettes, and bread in pursuit of illegal sugar? Why are diesels and cigarettes still smuggled in the liberal economy? Kids, why is he still running for his life on illegal diesel, illegal cigarettes, illegal sugar? It is the government's duty to investigate and ask for answers to these questions, especially the relatives of the deceased; to investigate and answer questions. This can't be covered up on the basis of counterterrorism. So it's military, economic, security, sociological, etc. We respectfully present the establishment of the Parliament's research commission in accordance with the Constitution and its provisions concerning the Council of Parliament to investigate all aspects. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] 3) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] [[Aydın]] [[Manisa]] [[Aydın]] [[Artvin]] [[Scholarship]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 13) Osman Oktay Soşi [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ardahan]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Concerning developments are taking place in Iraq. The withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq has yet to maintain its temperature, while a potential threat of civil war between different sects has immediately shown itself. The Iraq High Judiciary Council (Iraq High Judiciary Council) accused Iraqi Deputy President Tarik Al Hashimi and other senior Sunni executives of Sunni, including Shiite Prime Minister Nuri Al Maliki, of trying to assassinate other Shiite leaders, has deepened the crisis in Iraq. Hashimi is accused of leading the strike team that killed the authorities. It is clear that these developments are of great interest to Turkey, as its neighbour is on the brink of civil war. More important, however, according to statements of the bodyguards of Hashimi and other executives, the claim that Turkey is directly involved in these developments. The bodyguard Ahmet El Cuburi, who was alleged to be a member of the team and said he was involved in the assassination plots, announced that he had studied for 25 days in Turkey. This is a claim that needs to be addressed, if it's true, if it's true, if it's false. It also raises Turkey's concern that Turkey is already on the side of the Iraqi camps in Iraq, according to Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri El Maliki, an active international newspaper in The Wall Street Journal. The reality of the confessions of those who have been claimed to be members of the team are the issues that need to be investigated as to how much of them are the products of geopolitical strategies. In general, in the Middle East and especially with its neighbours, it is difficult and worrying that Turkey, which should be in solidarity with democracy, freedom, justice, and such things as the Shii-Sunni axis, the Iranian-Saudi-Arabic axis tensions, or the intermediary of Western forces. In Syria, which has been transformed into a new area of conflict and power struggle by regional and Western forces, the deepening of sectarian differences and the axis of conflicts raise such concerns better than well. Instead of Turkey's call for democracy and human rights in the conflict in Syria, it will deepen the conflict, as it does not contribute to the construction of democracy and peace in the region, as it is part of a sectal conflict that can include the entire Middle East. A parliamentary survey will not only investigate Turkey's role in a general war environment, but will also shed light on the ways of developing democratisation, peace, and the creation of a multicultural regional solidarity network. Following the Iraqi High Judiciary Council's decision to arrest Iraqi Vice President Tarik Al Hashimi and other senior executives, the Iraqi authorities have issued statements that Turkey had a role in a sectal war in Iraq. Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Charter. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[Sakarya]] [[Adana]] 3) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adıyaman]] 10) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] 11) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] 21) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Antalya]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey is one of the world's most important agricultural countries with product diversity and production potential. Despite the tightening and negativity created by the wrong agricultural policies in agriculture, Turkey still remains in many products in the world markets. Bending urbanization, erosion, wrong land and mera use threaten agricultural areas and water basins. Fugitive and false segments and fires cause great damage to our forests, especially the erosion that causes the unresolved destruction of our country's vegetation. Natural disasters are often experienced because of the decaying natural balance. Increased natural disasters cause loss of life and property. Erosion is a great threat to our land, our vegetation cover, and our water supply. As a result, the drought is a multi-dimensional threat, with its full reality in front of us. 63% of our country is suffering severe and severe, 20 per cent medium and 7 per cent mild erosion. In addition, 75% of the agricultural fields are experienced with intense erosion. It makes it necessary to fight erosion, drought, and desertification depending on the protection of our land, agriculture, forests, vegetation, and water supply and transfer it to future generations. In our country, we offer and offer with respect to the opening of Parliamental Research in accordance with Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution in order to determine the situation related to erosion, drought, and more effective fight against drought. [[Ankara]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] 5) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Sakarya]] 12) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 22) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] As in the world, erosion is at the head of agricultural areas and plants that have caused land loss in Turkey. In 90 percent of our country, there is erosion in various forms of violence. Sixty-three percent of our land is extremely violent and 20 per cent is medium and 7 per cent suffer mild erosion. According to the data of the TeMA Foundation, which has important work on the subject, the land is becoming increasingly extinct in an area of around 67 million hectares across the country. Over 75 per cent of the agricultural fields (about 20 million Ha) are seen with intense erosion. Turkey is also losing its land due to erosion, and millions of tons of land flows into the seas along with streams. The amount of land carried in Turkey with erosion and streams is seven times more than in the United States (US) than in Europe and twenty-two times more than in Africa. The River Firat carries 108 million tons of land a year, and the Green Mill carries 55 million tons of land. Each year there are 32 million tonnes of land in the Keban Dam, 31 million tonnes in the Karakaya Dam. Erosion causes 90 million tons of plant food to be lost together a year. Each year, 500 million tonnes of agriculture are lost from the surface of the entire country due to 1.4 billion tonnes of efficient high soil erosion. This lost land is equivalent to a land 15cm thick and about 400,000 hectares wide. The point in the soil's decay and loss of its properties is frightening because of erosion. Erosion causes drought and desertification, especially in areas of territorial climate, while the lack of water affects our underground waters. Narrowing water supply and narrowing farmland make water a strategic product in the world. There are significant increases in food prices worldwide. In many parts of our globe, the problem with clean and usable water and reliable food is increasing day by day. The prevention of erosion in our land and the preservation of our land, our vegetation and agricultural areas are of great importance today and for the future. Despite statements and measures taken, erosion remains a major threat. Given the above grounds, a commission would be established in our country to determine the situation related to erosion, drought and desertification, to establish policies needed to fight erosion and drought more effectively, to determine and implement measures to be taken. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now there's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We respect the legal responsibility of the energy and possible resources Minister Taner Yildiz, who is convicted of taking and taking bribes and giving in the tenders held by the Ministry of Energy, 4734 and 5237, who have not even had the ability to participate in public tenders, and who have not even had the ability to participate in public tenders, and who have the legal responsibility of the tenders for the search and operation of boron salts that need to be made by the state's hands, and to open them with respect and respect for the possibility of the geneting of the Constitution's 98 and 99. Aykut Erdoğdu Namik Havutça Haydar Akar Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu Birgül Ayman Güler Levent Gök Uğur Bayraktutan Tanju Özcan Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Ihsan Demiröz Türkgay Develi Osman Taney Örkurk İhsan Özkes Haluk Eyidoğan Gürkut Acar Ahmet Toptaş Salih Firat Denizhattin Karaahmetoğlu Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Muharrem Mevlüt Dudu Refik Eryılmaz Ensar Öğüt Ali Özgündünde Under Article 2 of Law 2840, the search and operation of boron salts must be carried out by the state. According to Articles 17, 58 and 59 of the Public Contraction Act 4734, those who have been ordered to prosecute and open a civil suit will not be allowed to participate in public tenders until the end of the trial. It was considered a crime to corrupt the tender to ensure that those who are not qualified to participate in the tender under Article 235 of the Turkish Penal Code 5237 were allowed to participate in the tender. The Ministry of Energy has given Fernas Company the main part of the business of the boron salts in service to various times related to the boron mines. The Fernas Corporation, which has received the tender for the operation of Bor salts, has launched a tender by the Ministry of Energy to create and participate in the 2005/95 District Attorney's Office Act No. 11. They have been convicted of this crime by E:2005/134 K: 2007/77; they have been re-judgmented by E: 2009/383 K: 2012/118 on the same Court's discovery that this crime was incomplete. It is against Article 235 of Law 5237 to enter into the tender of a company which has been tried for corrupting the tender, which is prohibited from taking part in the tender under Law 4734. It is also against the Law 2840 to give private companies -- including the Company -- to operate boron salts through various tenders. State Department 1. Both 26/05/1999 dates and E:999/66 K:1/93, 01/05/2000 dates and E:2000/50 K:2000/67 in consultation views, the obligation to search and operate the salts by the state's hands, including the enrichment of this mine, the refrigeration and marketing of this mine, and the transfer of mines to the relevant State Agency, which is no doubt involved in the operation of these institutions, which will be run by the State's means, but will be run by the State's means of these mines. Since the Boran salts, uranium and thorium mines are ruled to be run by the State, it has been decided that there is no mention of operating in the capital of these mines by an anonymous company, which has a share of private persons, in which case the presence of private persons shares, even at a very small extent, is not in accordance with Law 2840. However, the General Directorate of Mines was released on 13.12,2010 dates and on the official bulletin of 27784. In thorium area 3360, it was announced that there would be work for thorium and rare territorial elements (NTE) in the form of private sector or partnership; and the work described as a direct violation of Article 2 of Act 2840, which is defined as the establishment and establishment of the facility for the production of NTO, Barit, Florit and Toryum, and the establishment of all substructure facilities for the production of all of them (...). In addition, there is also the presence of a contractor factory that produces waterless boraxes within the 40's Administration. On the grounds stated, we propose and propose that Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Star be opened up. It has been presented to your knowledge. The advisory council proposal, which includes the day of the meeting on whether or not it will be taken into consideration, will later be submitted to your approval. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0040par0402	Mr. President, thank you. On Sunday, we buried the late Ali Yakut, the father of Mr. Sadik Yakut, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who reached Rahman, in Kayseri yesterday. We offer our condolences to his family and to our Deputy Speaker. All our Kayseri MP friends attended the funeral. Political party representatives participated in the funeral, and our political party groups expressed their condolences today to Mr. Speaker of Parliament, and we, the AK PARTY Group, offer our condolences to our Democratic Yakut, and to his family. We wish God's mercy to our late Uncle Ali. My respects.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0041par0405	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Here you are, Mr. Akdağ.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0042par0408	Dear President, thank you. And I offer my condolences to him and to his family on behalf of myself and my government for the death of the father of Mr. Sadik Yakut, the Vice President of our Parliament. That He may admit him into His mercy, and admit him into a light, and honor him in Paradise. One day we're all going to the afterlife. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0041par0410	Thank you, Mr. Akdağ. Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0043par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the Party of Peace and Democracy, would like to share our regret over the death of the father of Mr. Sadik Yakut, the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. We wish him and his family patience, our condolences and long life to all his relatives. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0041par0415	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Sakek, you've entered the system.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0044par0417	Mr. President, I didn't have to say it on behalf of the group, so I gave up.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0041par0418	Okay, thank you. Members of parliament, we, as the Court, offer our condolences once again for the passing of the precious fathers of our esteemed Deputy Speaker Yakut. God rest his soul. Sir, the Party of Peace and Democracy now has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: 27.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 10 October 2012, the Parliamentary Research Front, given by Bingöl MP İdris Baluken and his friends (1589 rows), was suggested to be read in the same roundup Tuesday (May 27,11,2012), where various allegations of armed aid to Syrian opponents on the Turkish border and Turkey were presented to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate how security was provided, especially on the Hatay border. In favor of the proposal, Bingöl MP İdris Baluken. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0045par0436	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on our group's research motion to draw attention to the stalemate of our country regarding Syrian policy. I salute your committee. You know, there's been a long-standing foreign policy. We've shared our concerns, concerns, the current situation over and over in the Parliamentary General Assembly. In this regard, our people and I have tried to draw the government's attention, the Council's attention, to the problems that have been taken under various actions, activity programmes. But unfortunately, we're dealing with a government fact that insists on false foreign policy on every call we've ever made. I won't go into the details of how the government, which started with zero problems in the Middle East from the beginning, came to the extent of war with all countries, and I won't go into the music notes of the notes that exist between their own words and states. We won't have time to go through all the details of the processes related to Iran, Iraq, Syria, but the internal reflection of recent events and events on the Syrian border in particular shows that the urgency of the situation is heading towards a critical stage that needs immediate intervention. We know that in Syria, especially Turkey has established a political line through Al Qaeda and the Muslim Brothers, that it has given Assad a few months of time over this political line, that this vision has been completely in vain, that it has been in vain, that it has been financed by the Free Syrian Army or the Syrian National Council, and that all its mechanisms have been organised from Turkey to its logistics, military support. The Syrian National Council and the Free Syrian Army, which have been tried to engage with all these efforts, are in greater chaos every day, as the Sunni sector cannot receive the support of the Sunni peoples in Syria, especially through a religious axis approach to Syria, and this chaos brings pain, tears, and death to the Syrian peoples every day. So far, the number of people who lost their lives in Syria has exceeded 50,000. With all these wrongs in the middle, Turkey continues its wrong policies in the same way. Turkey, which is a part of Syria through its ethnic and religious approach, is actually part of the war in Syria. In particular, we need to make it very clear that Turkey's policies have recently caused serious problems in our border cities, that there is a risk of tension in Syria, high blood pressure, a conflicting process moving into the country. There are three structures currently available in Syria: One, the Assad regime is trying to sustain itself. The second force, the Free Syrian Army or the Syrian National Council -- currently marching under a different name -- is waging a war against the regime. The pain that both brought to the Syrian people about the massacres is no different. A third force consists of Kurds who form their own organizational power, their own institutional structure, in the occupied land, without bloodshed, without slaughter in Syria. So, when all the policies of Turkey, the Syrian National Council and the Free Syrian Army went bankrupt, all the political lines that he had set down, a number of different relations for Kurdish gains, have entered into a number of different dirty conspiracies. Especially in the northern territory of Syria, where Kurds gain their own gains, they collaborate with a number of gangs that are no longer known if they are even the component of the Free Syrian Army. We are now at the border facing a very serious attack on the Kurdish people, along with the power of these operational gangs from Turkey, with logistic support, with weapons, with salary, with the victory of the Kurds there. The goal on the other side of the border is to create a Kurdish-Arab conflict, which is to take a step back from Kurds' existing achievements through the Kurdish-Arab conflict. However, on the other side of the border, the Kurdish-Arab conflict is being targeted, while on this side of the border, Ceylanpınar, he does not consider the fact that there could be the same risk, that a very troubling process of Kurdish and Arab conflict is coming. Look, our media is blind about this, they can't hear, they don't reflect the truth about what happened there. Again, here, in Parliament, the Foreign Minister, does not come to the General Assembly and offer to them what happened at the border of Ceylanpınar-Serekaniyah, and what happened in Suruç, Viranşehir, and what happened in Viranşehir. What is happening there is that the Kurdish people who are actively engaged in the conflict there, the gangs in an active war against Syria, come to Turkey, treat their wounded in Turkey, bring their bodies to Turkish hospitals, receive all kinds of weapons, equipment, military support from Turkey, then continue to clash with Kurds on the other side of the border. These gangs, which were last supported by Turkey, also carried out an armed attack on the murder of Serekaniye People's Assembly Chairman Abid Xelil, during a social demonstration. We say that what Turkey should do from the beginning is that Turkey should respect the will of the Syrian people in Syria. Any policy on gangs in Syria is doomed to collapse. As a dynamic of the Syrian people, I would like to point out that the Kurds have earned, created, created, without bloodshed, with other peoples, with Arabs, with Dürzis, with Nusayri, with the Christians, with respect to the gains they've made, and that they've fulfilled it. Because it will also find a serious reflection in the Kurdish problem within the country. If a policy is carried out in Syria through anti-Kurdish policy, through Kurdish hostility, through Kurds not showing gains, we think it would be a very far-fetched determination to expect that the Kurds inside will also remain unresponsive. See, in Suruç, in Ceylanpınar, in Viranşehir, for a week now, life has almost come to a halt in Viranşehir, where the tradeshop can't open it properly, the students can't go to schools, the people can't do their daily lives, but a delegation from this parliament is going to be able to do their own work in Ceylanpınar, in Viranşehir, Suruç, in Suruç. Lawmakers of the Peace and Democracy Party who have gone there are also facing a gasy, clubbed police intervention with instructions from Ankara. For a month, according to the current decision, any public gathering, march, press release and rally activities in our border districts, particularly Ceylanpınar, are banned. So in a completely contrary to the Constitution, an antidemocratic approach is being shown at the risk of not revealing the facts. Can you imagine that the lawmakers of this country go to a district within the borders of this country, they're exposed to police violence, police pressure, but the armed groups, who have no idea what they are, are walking from that side of the border to that side of that side of that side of that side of the border, that side of that side of that side of the border, and they're going into conflict. Such a painting is not acceptable. Regarding such a painting, the Foreign Minister must inform the Parliament immediately, and the Assembly must establish a position by respect of the will of the peoples in Syria, through the brotherhood of the peoples in the Middle East, Syria. Therefore, the motion for research is important in both our border districts and our provinces, as well as in the fact that Turkey's insistence on false policies has led us to a deadlock in the swamp that we are rapidly stuck in. That's why we expect all political party groups to respond with this responsibility. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We believe that the policy that gave Turkey in the Middle East has passed both inside and within Syria, and in other parts of the Middle East, with brothers and sisters, especially with the Kurdish people of 40 million, and its policies. I thank you, all of you, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0046par0452	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Against him, Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Kozar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0047par0456	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, from the first day the EC PARTI power came into office in Turkey, there have been very sincere and serious efforts by Turkey, at the point of the well-being of the Syrian people and at the integration of Syria with the world, and in this context, these relationships have reached a crucial point, in accordance with our past, historical mission with Syria, as friends, brothers, and relatives. However, Turkey, with all its authorities, our Prime Minister, our Foreign Minister, in order to end this trend, on the basis of the Syrian regime's attack on the demands of democracy, on Turkey's own people, had taken a serious effort, especially when all these efforts were inconclusive, but Turkey had to be there for the Syrian people, and in its foreign policy, despite what the Group Vice President had just expressed, not by taking al-Qaedaeda (Al Qaeda) or other foreign forces to the centre. Under the pressure and bombing of the Syrian administration, Syrian citizens in the borders and districts of Syria have taken refuge in Turkey, especially to ensure their own safety, and are currently sheltered in Turkey as to the security of more than 120,000 Syrian elders, women, children, lives, and there are about 39,000 Syrian refugees in Shanghai. Dear friends, first and foremost, we have to say that while Turkey welcomes the people of Syria in these camps, it has not taken any approach to anyone's ethnic origins or anyone's sect. You can also see this at the camp in Akchakale, where you can also see it in the camps in Hatay, and at the point of securing the safety of the refugees who came here, I want to rephrase that all of these refugees were monitored by cameras for 24 hours, that the camps were monitored, that their entrances and exits were kept under control, that they had come and settled in the camps, and then went and returned to Syria, and returned in a shootout. As for the incidents in Ceylanpınar, the conflicts in the border districts, particularly Akçakale, in Şanlıurfa. In these events, which resulted in the death of five of our citizens in Akçakale, I believe Turkey's basic concept of security is to ensure the safety of its citizens, and I believe that Turkey's most important priority against its citizens is the safety of its citizens, and that its mission is the safety of its citizens. Here, the movement of the border, military activity, the total fall of bombs thrown by Syria, as a result of the passing of our citizens and the recent death of Ceylanpınar, as you know, are measures taken as a result of the injury of one of our teachers. Other than that, it is contrary to the facts of Turkey that the opposition here should be acted, especially by ethnic origins or by a religious approach. As 75 million people in this country, as a country that has different ethnic origins, has different faith groups, but has been living together as brothers for a thousand years, I would like to express to you how wrong it is to consider these events in another approach to the Syrian people. Some of the events that happened here at the border -- especially when we looked at your motive -- were referred to by friends. Friends, as you know, our Ministry of Health has made important inquiries, assessments, and public sharing of these 112 ambulances, at the point of allegations that they were carrying weapons to the opposition. It's very clear that they're unreal, that they're proven, that they're proof, that they're not real. On the other hand, there is a very important study by the Turkish Parliament's Committee for Human Rights Review in that sense, and in this study, we all know the legal status of Syrian citizens living in housing centres, the position of housing centers, the claim that refugees have been involved in the war by crossing Syrian territory and returning to the settlement centers, the claim that asylum seekers have returned to the war, and that our Parliament Human Rights Commission has done a very detailed review and report that our Parliamentary Commission has done under the title of claims in this sense. In view of all these facts, I express my opposition to BDP's group proposal and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0048par0466	Thank you, Mr. Runar. Lehte, Hatay MP Mehmet Ali Editoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0049par0470	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the esteemed MPs on the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate events in Akchakale, as well as Syrian-Turkey border security. I salute the High Council. Dear friends, dear MPs, hundreds of articles in the international press that discredit Turkey, the news that insult Turkey, are unfortunately left unanswered by the state authorities of the Republic of Turkey, which deeply annoys me and many other citizens of the Republic of Turkey like me. He was asked to investigate events in Akchakale. Yes, when this bombing occurred in Akçakale, which led to the martyrdom of five of our citizens, it was stated by our foreign officials that it was the seventh bomb, that similar bombs had been dropped on Akchakale since several days, but that others had not been killed, and that these bombings were reportedly responded to the rules of engagement, and it has been drawn, and it has been noted. Now, the question comes to mind: was someone expected to die in Akchakale to be taken into safety? The answer to that question remained in the air. We expect it from the State Department. Seven bombs drop, no security measures are taken after any of them, but such measures and discussions are on the agenda after the deaths of five of our citizens. But there are other things in the foreign press. If you've been watching the foreign press for several days, they say that the Akchakale incident was a setup for the deployment of the Patriot missiles, that it was set up to establish a motive, and that no response was received from the government wing. The security of the Syrian-Turkey border is being investigated. As Hatay MP, I can safely say that there is no security at the 190km Hatay border, from each party -- other than me -- nine of my fellow lawmakers are witnesses. Several informal doors have been created outside the existing border crossing. The entrance through these gates, through these areas, through these villages, even asphalt has been made to facilitate the transition from these villages to Syria by our government or our authorities. There is no security from us to Syria, Syria to Turkey, and there is no control. In the last year -- again, media reports -- hundreds of stolen cars were taken from these informal doors to Syria, where they were used in the war, and another question remained unanswered. More importantly, while the region's economy is crawling on the ground, smuggling is now the only way to survive, in Hatay, and in all our borders, unfortunately, it is tolerated. For example, in exchange for planting tens of thousands of seedlings and planting thousands of pomegranate plants, our citizens, who are supposed to sell those pomegranates abroad or in domestic markets, can't sell them, but thousands of pounds of pomegranates are smuggled into Turkey at a very cheap rate every day. Hatay, one of Turkey's most important cities in the production of olives and olive oil, is unable to consume olive oil and olive oil because 3,000, 4,000 cans of olive oil are smuggled through these informal doors every day from Syria, and is also tolerated. In the same way, animal entrances are also tolerated. Thousands of living animals are smuggled into Turkey every day and have taken a loan to feed, making our farmer who works hard for livestock miserable. There's an important claim again in our region that, in the last few days, has failed to respond to another claim that would undermine the reputation of our country. Through Barzani, there was a four-point agreement in the press in northern Syria to form a Kurdish region in northern Syria, such as northern Iraq, but it remained unresponsive. Three of these four articles are related to the establishment of military bases. I also expect Turkey to ask AKP authorities from here if there is an agreement to establish a military base in Ayn al-Arab, Kamişlı and Afrin, and to establish trade relations with this Kurdish region in northern Syria as well as in northern Iraq. While the economy is down in the region, the unemployment has increased by twice as much, there is a special interest in Syrian asylum seekers in our region, Syrian asylum seekers who have exceeded 120,000. They are employed by subcontractors in our municipalities, under pressure from government officials or party executives to work in the private sector, and many have been given jobs, making our own citizens unemployed. And it's not possible for me to agree to that, on behalf of the locals. We have no objection to asylum seekers, humanitarian aid must be done to them in every way, but you do it to the extent that international rules allow you to do it. When you give asylum seekers the opportunity you don't know your own citizen, it will raise objections to me and the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and especially to everyone in the region. Some of the words related to the Geneva Convention again appeared in international media. As you know, the State Department of the Republic of Turkey has given the Geneva Convention a positive opinion. According to this Geneva Covenant, Turkey was forced by the Assad regime in Syria to enter into a dialogue, to sit them at the table, and to establish a national government in Syria. Although the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded to this, Syria rejected the dialogue. Isn't that a contradiction? An important question seeking answers is the developments after the attack on the Minister of Defence in Syria, which is after July 18th. It's considered a breaking point in Syria, the whole world accepts it, and the world's press reports that after that day, Turkey's position in the region resulted in Turkey's brand of untrustworthy country. There is no response from Turkey again. To remind you, after the deaths of four key Syrian executives, violence has increased in Syria, conflict has grown, mutual killings have reached a stage, and when it became clear that the Free Syrian Army could not resist, radical Islamist groups have been smuggled into Syria through Turkey and Hatay. By 60 per cent of this, other Islamic extremist groups -- among the groups that are today in conflict -- are Libyan and from 11 other countries -- especially Al Qaeda -- are fighting in Syria. With them fighting there, Patriarch Mar Henna of the Eastern Church of Syria makes a statement, and the presence of radical Islamist groups in Syria endangers the safety of the 3 million Christians who live here. Let the Western capitals take precautions immediately. We find it uncomfortable to have such a group present in front of Assad. He says, "Investigating." And as of that day, all Western states excluded Turkey, withdrew its support, and finally took over from Turkey. Finally, I want to talk about Gaza. You will give logistical support, weapons support to the Syrian opponents, and you will try to avoid the massacre of the innocent Muslim Palestinians in Gaza with tears and speeches. This is not an acceptable, adequate attitude. See, the international press says: "Israelis used the Orbsacik to meet the Palestinian missiles that were thrown out of Gaza. " This is an important claim that awaits an answer. Again, Turkey was given the task of reunifying Halit Meşal and Israel. The answer hasn't been answered yet. The next day, when we were criticizing Israel, the merchant ships began to sail from Israel to Haifa. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, over the past few years, our trade volume with Israel has increased from $1 billion to $5 billion, and our trade with 11 countries behind Syria and Syria has reached a standstill. That's why I'm saying we have an attitude towards immediate investigation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0050par0492	Thank you, Mr. Ediboglu. Against Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0051par0496	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed lawmakers on the BDP group proposal. I salute your high council. Positive or negative developments on both sides of the region between Turkey and Syria, which has more than 500 miles [800 km], will surely affect both countries and both communities. In this framework, unfortunately, our cities and citizens living in border areas have suffered major losses, as a result of the wrong policies, as a result of the recent civil war in Syria, which took place in our recent geography. One of the most striking things, perhaps, is a development that has not yet been clear whether it was an attack or an accident, resulting in the death of our citizens in an explosion in the town of Harran on 3 October 2012. Following the news of this development, a committee has been formed to conduct a review of Mr. Adnan Şeky Bey and Adana MP Mr. Seyfetttin Yilmaz Sir and myself of the other sections of Harran, Akçakale and Urbana. On Thursday (October 4th), following the incident, the delegation moved to Urbana. The dialogue has been made with our citizens who were affected by this incident in the centre, in Akchakale, and in Harran. In particular, the Temudgin family's condolence tent, which has lost four members, has been visited, and has been conveyed to them that both our president and our group have expressed our condolences and that we share their pain. Later, the site of the Ozer family's condolence, which lost one member, was visited, and the same feelings were given to them. A visit was made to the police in Akchakale, where the injured members of the police were visited at the hospital, Akçakale Mayor, other elements in the Harlan area were visited, problems were heard, suffering shared. But the Akçakales, the Urbans, have given us certain things in particular. The Akçakales have expressed on both sides of the border that the victims of this war were the same people, that people were related to each other, that the people who died in this war were members of the same family, and that they were strongly opposed to this war because of the fact that this war took place in a very close geography, very close to the settlements. Akcakaleli has expressed that the ruling party on the Syrian crisis has failed to manage the crisis well. They have stated that the government is responsible for this evil administration, that he is the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, but they have suffered the damage themselves, that they have to face the consequences, and that they are very concerned about where the outcome of this civil war is going, and that they are very concerned. On the scale of Harran, Akchakale, in fact, the entire Glory was negatively affected by the crisis. Akchakale, whose negative impacts have already been caused by the wrong policies of the ruling sector, particularly by the border trade, have expressed that the area of Harlan is very affected by the crisis, that the closure of the border crossing of about 1,500 vehicles per day, the closure of the trade volume, has affected them dramatically, that they have found no workers in the field to harvest, to work in the harvest, because of the unrest of this war, Akchakale. The same problem is happening today in Ceylanpınar. In those days, education was suspended in Akchakale. Children, for three or four weeks, the schools had been open, but the Akçakales, the Harlans, had also put their reaction to the ruling party, the members of the government. On October 4, 2012, the day before we arrived in Akchakale, Akchakale had taken a stand against the ministers and members of the ruling party visiting Akchakale, Akchakaleli and they reacted to them. Look, on Friday (October 5th 2012), she testified in the mosque in Akchakale, where we went to perform Friday's prayer, in the mosque's imam hut, that it is forbidden to react to the state elders, to oppose them. She said, "It is forbidden in our religion." So, Akchakaleli, who reacted to the wrong policies of AKP's rule, was moved to such a defense with the verses of Allah's book, with the events of the Prophet -- Professor Dr Mustafa Erdem, with the testimony of our Ankara MP, there is no such statement in the Quran -- in the statement of our Ankara MP. We had to see a mosque imam from the mosque defending the ruling party against us. In fact, it's sad that most of our religious leaders are not like this, but there must be 3 or 5 of them who think they're getting their salary from the ruling party, or who think they're serving the ruling party, who think they're serving the religion, which we found one of them in Akchakale. Another interesting thing is that the ruling party is trying to legitimize its own power by using some of its religious leaders, and the imam at Akchakale says it is forbidden to oppose the ministers. But the same ruling party, just over 100 meters away from the border, does not hesitate to give money, logistical aid, food, all kinds of help to opponents who have rebelled against the minister, the president or the president. We've encountered such an interesting painting in Akchakale. After returning from Akchakale, we must make a motion to investigate the problems of this Syrian crisis, which were negatively affected by the Akchakale scale. We said, "We have prepared a motion to do so, and the Parliament has taken its place on its agenda. We said that the government should take measures concerning our economies in Akchakale, Urbana, and all of that geography, which were negatively affected by the Syrian crisis. We said that if they needed debts to the banks, they had to be pardoned or postponed, and they had to be put off without interest. In fact, in Akchakale, the example of those five of our citizens who lost their lives without sin, as an example of this war, should be given the same rights to those who are not responsible for this war, but who have lost their lives and who have lost their lives, who have been injured, who have been given certain rights and privileges as part of the fight against terrorism to the diesel traffickers. However, the ruling party, as with any suggestion, has taken the same attitude as any offer, unfortunately covering its ears. In fact, we all know that all developments in the Middle East on the Syrian scale are part of the Great Middle Nature Project. See, America's former Foreign Minister Condoleezza Rice, who said that the 22 countries under the Grand Middle East Project would change their borders and that Turkey's borders would also be changed, said a few days ago: The developments in the Middle East Project are now the final scene. It seems now that in the event of this project's fulfillment, we do not believe that Turkey's borders will change positively, nor do any of us believe that Turkey's borders will change. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this framework, I wish the ruling party would take a step back from these wrong policies by warning its own government, and I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0052par0510	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0053par0511	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit01spe0052par0512	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0052par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal, given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Date: 27.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Counsellor's 27,11,2012 Tuesday (now), since there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On June 21, 2012, and on Tuesday 27,11,2012, our parliamentary research proposal (now) was proposed to be read in the General Assembly on the 27,11,2012, to determine business accidents and related diseases, to reduce or eliminate the risks of injury and employees. In favour of the proposal, Eskişehir MP Ruzar Demirel. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0054par0018	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge in favour of our parliamentary research proposal, which aims to reduce or eliminate risks for employees, including occupational accidents and related diseases that we have given as a nationalist Action Party group, and there are no conditions for some people to cope with unemployment, I think, with the name of the Ministry of Labor, before they go through business accidents in Turkey. As a matter of fact, non-assigned teachers, their actions, the unassigned teachers, in general, have no job problems or disadvantages in working life. I don't know if it's a chance or a misfortune anymore, but unemployment is one of the greatest violence in Turkey. Adult men and adult women have had the necessary training but have suffered unemployment for a long time in Turkey, and some of them end in suicide. So, I think the government will be sensitive about this and ask for the support of its own party deputies to settle the issue. Of course, providing jobs or preventing business accidents is a matter that the Ministry of Labor, but in the end, all employers, the entire community, must be sensitive. However, we have a country and a government that signed the Istanbul Declaration in 2008, and as the Istanbul Declaration was signed in 2008, there is a sentence: ▪ It is the top priority of governments to implement the effective and powerful control system in order to protect the health and safety of the workers. However, in Turkey, you know that one of the two employees has been in a business accident, and in the last ten years, during which the Justice and Development Party ruled, 11,000 people have died due to business accidents in Turkey, and there is no one left to hear that we are European winners, and we owe third place to Algeria and El Salvador. If Algeria and El Salvador take precautions, we're about to go higher than third place in the world. These are our shames. Well, why do we say our shame so often? Because it's not safe. In the last days of the last legislature of Turkey, the Grand National Assembly passed a Business Safety Act in the middle of the night, you know, and in the name of the law, we actually wanted to correct it at that time. We have asked for the name of the law in the form of occupational security, along with working health, or working security. Because job security, safety, health, safety, well-being, social harmony, should be the first thing to happen to employees. Why am I saying this? 71 per cent of workers registered in Turkey are unhappy, 54 per cent have never vacationed in their lives. Well, what about the off-the-books situation? None of us know about it. 71 percent of the employees on the record are unhappy. If they say they're indifferent, I think 100 percent of the employees are unhappy. Well, beyond all that, what is our government doing about it? I would like to remind you once again of one thing that I have expressed on this parliamentary bench: the website of Turkish Investment Support and Promotion Agency. The website of this presidency sees Turkey as an investment paradise, but it says something like this: we have grown, young, 26 million people ready to work. He says that our people can work fifty-three hours a week and that the people of the world who use the least sick leave are in Turkey. When I brought it up earlier, I also told you that if you put a tooth graph on it, it'll go right back to the slave market. In fact, these are things that are not considered positive in the world. As a matter of fact, Turkey is a country far behind in the world in terms of business security. Generally speaking, we are in all kinds of violence. We have a general inability to deal with violence, and we have a line that's always pronounced in triple numbers, so we're in the ranks of 100 and more countries. Qualitative, competitive workforce is not expressed in one country by working fifty-three hours a week and using a sick leave, such as four days a year. Qualification is a condition that describes employees who can actually use their permissions, provide social security, and therefore have to be protected by the state in matters of job safety, but in our case, occupational health, safety, and occupational illness are never considered in this framework. Here's what happened last week in Samsun. I'd like to remind you once again here. The lid of the ammonia tank... a mental state trying to replace a 300-ton cap with ropes, I don't know where there are, and therefore five of our workers are dead, 11 of them are badly injured, and five workers have been crushed to death in the last days of Turkey 2012. The 21st century is an advanced democracy; it's not true in any sense to call a country without human rights, without the right of an employee. There's only one thing: yes, we're in a state where we're running around with unlimited disapproving of our employees. Huseyin Flag, Güven Demirel, Sadiq Kurultay, Husamettin Taşsümer and Fatih Açel; these five workers died under a cover. On the orders of Mr. President of State Bahçeli Bey, Mr. Jamalettin Şeker Bey and Mr. Reşat Şadı MP, they went to the scene to investigate. You know, really, this is what we call preventable accidents, preventable diseases, instead of preventing them, it must be like sending people to their deaths in person. Last week, when I was giving a speech here on Children's Rights Day, I told them that our children could get under the basketball hoop at school, fall on the gate of the garden, lose their lives by falling on the sinks. A similar example is the death of those who were killed by falling on the cover of the ammonia tank in Samsun. ▪ If you say work or not work, everyone prefers to work. Unsubstantiated teachers want to be appointed in spite of all kinds of risks. Our trained unemployed people want to be able to work despite all kinds of risks, they want to work under the record, but when working, they want to be protected from occupational illness. There are so many occupational diseases unregistered in Turkey, and we, the lawmakers who work in these halls, are the biggest candidates. There are other candidates: the officers of the report. We're actually among the most risky groups in terms of occupational illness. Untidy hours, long stays, and not a very good air-conditioning environment. If you're referring to the clerks, I think they're suffering from sick building syndrome right now. While we ourselves are working in such a professional environment, knowing that many people have been exposed to occupational illness in Turkey without name, as well as agreeing that we have failed as a country on business health and job safety, I hope that the entire Assembly will also support the motion for this parliamentary research that our party has submitted, at least for its health futures. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0055par0029	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Against him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Domaç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Domach.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0056par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the MP's motion to investigate the Parliamentary Assembly. I salute you. Respected lawmakers, occupational health and safety are a matter not only at the workplace and the employee level, but directly concerned with the general public, which is also a matter of priority for our government and ourselves. In fact, nine days after the proposed research proposal, on 30 June 2012, the Law on Occupational Health and Safety came into effect with all of our contributions and efforts. Under Law 6331, it is necessary for employers to be subject to risk assessment of all workplaces; to use services related to occupational health and safety services of employees, including employees who have temporary, partial, full-time work, and other healthcare professionals, to employ occupational experts and workplace physicians, to increase their employment or service duties; to operate at workplaces and staffs except for public institutions and institutions; to operate in jobs in dangerous and very dangerous classrooms, to be employed by social safety professionals and other health professionals, to increase their employment experts and occupational staffs, to be employed, to be employed by the authorities, and to be employed by the authorities, and to be employed by the authorities, to make it necessary to make it necessary to make it necessary to make it up to the 301% of the law. Two of them have been sent to the Prime Minister. We think that if the practice of occupational health and safety is observed and the need for research is needed after these applications are observed, then we will have our support. This motion says that after the Health and Safety Act is followed, we can only support it now, but we don't, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0057par0039	Thank you, Mr. Domaç. Lehte, Erzincan MP Muharrem Ilk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0058par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak in favour of the motion to assess business accidents and related diseases, including those brought as the group's proposal, to reduce or eliminate risks for injuries and studies. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, I first hope that the month of our battle will bring unity, unity, unity to the brotherhood, and that it will lead to the days when no one will be hurt without discrimination, and the deaths will be over. This month is a month of mourning for the Alevis, when the people and their offspring have suffered unprecedented disgrace, thirstless persecution and slaughter. To this day, in their faith, in their philosophy, in their faith, in their faith, in their faith, in their faith, in their love, in their love for Muhammad, and in his people, they rejoice in their love, in their grief, in their grief, in their grief, in their suffering, in their suffering, in their persecution, in their suffering, and in their persecution, in order to curse the oppressors, and continue to curse the oppressors. Dear MPs, a week ago in Erzincan, the tent of Pir Sultan Abdal was attacked by three people, and the banners of the tent were burned. Then these three people were caught, two were arrested. Of course, there's a good improvement here that he's been arrested and caught. However, the important thing is that we want our government to take a serious interest in this particular matter. We don't think anyone has the right to bring up these vindictive matters and make such a society nervous. We'd like him to recommit to this matter seriously. Our main concern is occupational illness. Of course, when the definition of occupational illness is made, (e.g. the state of temporary or continuous illness, physical or mental disability, which is repeated because of the nature of the work or the work of the insurance.) It is known that four to 12 people from 1,000 workers around the world suffer from occupational illness every year, and that should be identified as such, but unfortunately in our country, that rate is never correct. Our esteemed MP, Alaatin Yüksel, has made a motion to ask Mr. Minister that the diagnosis of occupational illness in 2011 is considered 688. However, according to our estimates, it is estimated that the number should be much higher and that over 100,000 occupational diseases are currently undetected in Turkey. So there's one thing you've always said: 99% of business accidents are said to be preventable by 100 percent of occupational illness, but unfortunately you've done nothing to prevent it. The simplest thing about this is, you know, silicone disease, a disease that everyone knows. By 2009, unfortunately, in our country, jean-boltwork was given the right to make money. On the other hand, we see that America was banned in the 1960s, in Europe, in the 1960s. So, it's come out that we care about it. Our deputy just mentioned a new business law, occupational health and occupational security. We said that when the law was being negotiated. In this law, we said once, once, that the institution that would first make the diagnosis of occupational illness should have medical rooms, that they should be left in charge, but the medical rooms were completely disqualified here. Therefore, we need to know that the next physician will be employed by the employer. We need to consider how serious a physician will be working under the employer. However, if we really want to focus on this, what we need to do first is to let medical rooms and engineers, occupational safety experts at workplaces, and let them decide with their own free will, but in this latest law, we have to look at the amount of time that our employer has been given to our government physicians or at work. Of course, serious research is needed, especially when we call it occupational diseases, because it covers a very large area. What environment he works in, what conditions he meets when he works, which of them he's exposed to, all of which need to be removed one by one, but this kind of work has never been done in our country, and it doesn't seem to be done. You know, we had three occupational hospitals. Hospitals are in a sad state right now, they can't even find a doctor to work with. Thus, these findings are unknown. I specifically proposed the law on occupational illness when the labour law was discussed. In this proposal of the law, I said that there should be a separate place for occupational illness, but it wasn't taken seriously. Especially all over our country, every city, every hospital needs to open a clinic and do some very serious work on it, so that it can be investigated real and serious. And, you know, subcontractor work, illegal labor is taking place in our country. And at a time when unemployment is so high, no one's going to complain because everyone's got a mind to do whatever job they can do. Of course, the worst part is that it has to be insured to be considered a professional disease. Since it's not insured, there are hundreds of people who can't be detected here. Only, you know, there's about 160 cases of siliconis in the district of Karliova. There were more than 60 patients in the village of Stonedchay alone, and our last funeral was in January or February. So we know how much we care about these things... and the rest of the people are working in the garbage, collecting paper, and they can't get any benefits, and some of them only get about $500. Dear lawmakers, of course, when we call it occupational diseases, we should not think about siliconis, pneumoconyosis. Government officials are also suffering from occupational illness, and both employees and soldiers who work in the branch office are suffering from occupational illness in various ways. And then there's the other thing: unemployed people who don't define occupational illness and who don't have a job, who never will. What are they doing? They're upset because they don't have a job. So, because they're depressed, they're going to commit suicide. So, the last time, you know, the teachers started action, and 36 of them committed suicide while 350,000 teachers were waiting for our appointment. Why did they kill themselves? They committed suicide because they were depressed, because they had no job, even though they had a profession. Therefore, you have to think seriously about them. And because hundreds of young people have no jobs, they get depressed the same way, families are falling apart, families are falling apart; here we are, watching a murder on TV every day. And that's the same thing -- of course, if we think seriously, we're not making jokes -- has to get into occupational disease, needs to be thought of. Of course, I'd like to talk about one of these young people while I've had the chance here. About two months ago, a young man in a village in Erzincan had committed suicide by throwing himself into the water at a dam there -- the dam we call the Canal Dam. The boy was 19. He had a security certificate, and he wanted to work security after he got a security certificate. Of course, he told us too, find me a job, get me a security certificate, I want to work as a security guard. But of course, all the doors we've applied here have closed in our face, and they can't find a job anywhere. The boy eventually committed suicide in a depression. Of course, when we visited her mother, when we went to her house, and her mother told me that there was no job for her. Of course, we were in charge there because we couldn't find a job, but I think all the doors that we applied for in there were the problems that got shut in my face, and I didn't get a job. I would like to thank my friends from the MHP, who have brought in a proposal for research on occupational illness. Because occupational illness is a very important issue, and I'm afraid we're far behind in our country to detect it. To determine that, you need to add a clause to the law, which is to ensure that physicians work independently and act without being affected by anyone while these physicians are being identified. To do so, of course, first, we must not be afraid of employers, but we must give the employer the answer that is necessary. We're a social state. We say, "We think a lot about the health of our workers." We say, "We fight for our citizens here." But when it comes to that, unfortunately, we do what the employer says. So, when we met at the committee before the board met, we saw how the employers were acting, what they were doing. The numbers there are less than 10 workers, the number of workers less than 50, how to intervene and identify them have already been established, and none of them have been taken seriously. Of course, the most important thing here falls to our Minister of Health. What they need to do is, since they haven't returned the law, since they're going to take it that way, they should instruct every hospital, and they should start working to open one clinic for occupational health. Maybe that'll narrow it down a little bit. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0059par0062	Thank you, Mr. Light. Against him, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0060par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the MHP Group's research motion. I salute you all. In fact, business accidents -- we can't call this an accident anymore -- actually, business killings -- have become almost the fate of Turkey. Not a day goes by where there's no news of death at a shipyard or a workplace or at a HES dam. There's no way to express it just by business accidents or by the way companies approach it. In fact, this means that the neoliberal policies implemented by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security in Turkey in particular have collapsed. Today, what causes these workers' deaths is actually this system itself, because it's not more about protecting workers' work health, job safety, social security, but how can I gain more profit from these workers, how can I make them work more? So the system's broken down. Dear lawmakers, in other countries, the Minister of Labour and Social Security should have resigned 10 times by now. So what example should we tell? The last example of Samsun was given here again, five workers were killed. Ten workers fell under the dam in Adana, and died. Workers were burned alive in Esenyurt, but in this country, the AKP government still had nothing to do with it. There is an approach to how there are very good things being done about business health and safety, that there are no problems, that there are problems, but that AKP will solve this issue anyway. This is a serious problem. But without seeing this fact, in fact, the AKP government is involved in every day's workman's massacres, labor killings. It's called murder, so let's put it like this, it's not an accident. Look, the Tuzla shipyards were on the agenda here last semester. There's been a motion for research on salt shipyards, research, but the results haven't changed. There are still business accidents in Tuzla shipyards, and people continue to lose their lives. As of October 2012, the number of deaths in Tuzla shipyards was 152. Again, there is a serious need for a system change, especially in terms of occupational illness, business accidents. So not on profit, but on profit, how can we guarantee the rights and freedoms of workers, workers, who have caused this profit, and how can we guarantee, and how can people work under better conditions? There's no arrangement for any of this. Supposedly, here, some arrangements have been made about the workers. All the arrangements are actually against workers, against workers. The so-called union organisation is being arranged, but the right to strike is being taken away. Therefore, workers today can't really object, they've been denied the right to appeal. When it is organised, only when the AKP praises its government, when it says how good its policies are, can only be involved in organised struggle. We see it very clearly in the union struggle. So unionists are far from actually an opposition, far from criticizing the AKP's government or the state's policies on this issue. However, they will praise him, as if there were no problems, and then in the accidents, it was an accident. Unfortunately, they're trying to take him away with an approach. But we want to warn you once again that we, the Peace and Democracy Party bloc representatives, will not go on like this. Both workers and workers are organized, which he calls no. Wherever he is, they're called layoffs, flexible work, social security work. No, they're organized for it. Look, there's a subcontractorization that's causing trouble in this country. The AKP government encourages this subcontractorship. Look into most of these deaths because of subcontractors. They're subcontractors because they don't control them. The real contractor's throwing his business at the contractor, and the contractor's not taking responsibility for it anyway, so there's no control mechanism on it. How are we supposed to avoid these business accidents? There's no responsibility for that. This is the government's approach, which is how workers die beautifully, but how do we prevent it, how do we keep these people living well, where they really work, living healthy, not thinking about how they're going to get home in the evening without getting hurt? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it's an important matter of occupational illness. It's important that these occupational diseases be identified as legal security. There are some findings in both the constitution and the law, in fact, at the point of securing the workers' right to life, but when you look at the applications, there are serious problems. The most serious issue of occupational illness, in fact referred to as stoning, was the last time that the Assembly came to its agenda, but its regulations, unfortunately, were also a challenge to define occupational diseases. So the workers in the denim sanding business first need to prove that he was carrying this disease, that he worked at that workplace. But most of them work flexiblely, without insurance. Many of them, for example, had already come to Istanbul from the most intense part of the war in the 90s, where they worked in jean-bolting fields, for example, because they were more from the region of these jeans, because they were from the Kurdish provinces. They all rejoiced that they had found a job. They called their relatives; they are all occupationally ill at the moment, almost waiting to die, but there is no arrangement. These patients need to admit they're sick first, but they've worked in this area. Silicosis has to be assessed without further evidence that it's a professional disease. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, also offered law on this issue, and we gave it last term, and now we have. We think this should be updated and this Parliament should at least be free of the shame. When people die, they can leave their own children, at least their wives, a safer, healthy life, but unfortunately, there's not much serious work to be done about it. There are about 10,000 people working in the jean-bolting business in Turkey, it is said. Now, for example, if you ask the government, they're going to say that the jean-bolting business is now done with modern equipment, and there's no problem with that, but what are you going to do with the employees before? 10,000 workers work in this area. So it's been determined that there's a silicone disease in 500, which many of them are just being detected. The workers in this business get this disease in less than two or three months, but here, where these people work, there are many obstacles to detect this occupational disease, bureaucratic barriers. I think this needs to be investigated, too. As a result, I would like to point out that if the strong economy in Turkey is really being asked to continue, if we look at how that powerful economy, which we are so proud of, is being able to see what conditions these workers are working under, we have to see that we have to be trying to improve their conditions. Every time you get up and brag about the great economy of the world, how many times do you have the responsibility of the workers, the workers who provide this economy, the standard of living, the state of life, the health, the safety of their work, the treatment of people, the more humane living conditions? You'll have to think about that one more time. Second, this subcontractor thing is a serious problem. A study of whether or not this should be eliminated or minimized needs to be done immediately. Investigating subcontractors, perhaps serious problems in this matter need to be expressed. Third, we think that the flexible work issue, the unsecured working approach -- which the AKP government made legal, you know, made legal -- has made flexible work, unsecured work -- is an important point to investigate their losses. Without doing all this, we can't really think that we're doing good things about human life in Turkey. We can't really feel anything about it, just like our workers do. So, not doing the right thing here means we're all responsible for the deaths, not just that firm. This Parliament is the main reason why those companies do things that cause deaths, do not take precautions, do not guarantee workers' health, their lives. It's powered by Parliament, it's powered by the laws here, it's powered by lack of control here. So, if we just don't want to put the firm on the job, then we need to do it right here, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0061par0081	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0062par0082	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0061par0083	I'd like to put the nationalist movement group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... We've got enough to decide... I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's enough to make a decision. The party's group proposal for nationalist movement has not been accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Number: 414 27.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the consultation board's meeting Tuesday (June 27,11,2012), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 13.11.2012, it has been suggested that the indictments of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (SEDAS), given in the purpose of resolving the victims (564 rows), be read to the SEDAS, as well as to the other motions before the information of the General Assembly, which are being submitted to the information of the Council of Ministers of Parliament (564 rows). Lehte, Aldeli MP Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0063par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation and all the arrested MPs. Today, I'd like to talk to you about the indispensableness of our daily life, the suffering you've caused the citizens in the consumption of electricity, which is a sign of civilization and development that makes our lives easier. We know that your government has privatised a public responsibility and service area of electricity in order to deliver power to the people for less and for free of the state's cumbersome structure. According to your understanding, no more transformers will burn, no more power cuts, the power lines will be restored, the missing fugitive rates will be reduced, so electricity will be cheap, less money will be in the pocket of the public. I'm asking you, dear lawmakers: Is that what happened? One of the main issues of your privatisation policies is that your government is monitoring the persecution of companies responsible for the distribution of electricity. I'd like to share with you the score, uncertainty and irresponsibleness of the town I live in and the TOKI dwellings in Çayırova. SEDAS AC, which took over electricity distribution in our region, was privatised in 2009. From the moment he's specialized, all he wants to do is raise money and go on with it, without a sense of service. In fact, I'd like to show you an article in today's national paper. SEDAS authorities have cut electricity from a mosque in Bay district of Laşeli Province before its 2009 privatisation. •SEDAŞ's complaints have been reflected in everyone and the press, wherever he distributes them, in Bolu, in Sakarya, Düzce, wherever he distributes them. I'm not exaggerating, there's a power outage in the Bigeli area every day; there's no time, there's no time. Light wind, rain, electricity is cut; sunny, light, electricity is cut; electricity is cut every day Saturday, Sunday, holiday. The citizen is fed up. That's what the media talks about every day. Who will the citizen complain to? SEDASH No. 186. No one responds 95% of the time they're looking for a complaint line. And when they answer, the only answer is: "There is no one to talk to about when the time of the failure will end and when it will come. " When I tell you these things, you think the opposition is just what the MP is saying. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you what your mayor, Mr. Nevzat Doğan, said at a meeting of local executives, including you, regarding SEDAŞ, and about your deputies. Mr. Dogan says that in this town there is no longer any complaints or dissatisfaction about this institution. I can't answer. The citizen asks us: "Why aren't the street lamps on? " I can't answer. We're taking a picture of the post in the middle of the road, we want it replaced, we send it out, three months later, the answer comes: the construction is not in our plans. Kids stick their fingers in electricity, get electrocuted, nobody cares. In the past, it was not like this in the state, it was treated with a sense of service, and now it sees with profit sense. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask you: what kind of contract did you make? Where do the SEDAS authorities in this region get the courage to do this without consulting the executives, mayors, citizens, regardless of who they want, regardless of who they want, regardless of who they want? Is there a different deal we don't know about? Dear lawmakers, the city of Alexandria is a city where energy is most needed. The blackout of electricity in industry is the decline of production, the need for more energy for cooling machines to reheat, that's a waste of time. From a health point of view, hundreds of heart and kidney patients connected to dialysis machines in this area have been applied to us because their lives are in danger. There are complaints about the lives of workers going on shift due to the lack of streetlights at night. Dear MPs, now in our region -- I want you to listen carefully -- there are TOKI dwellings in Meadowova. In 2007, there were 1,736 TOKI dwellings, where people started living and living. In July 2012 and August 2012, our citizens' electricity bills increased by 10 times, 20 times. I'm not exaggerating, the bills used to be 30, 40, 50 liras, came up to 1,900, 1,500, 2,000. When a citizen complains, when he pleads, the SEDAS authorities drop these bills immediately. I'll give you an example: $1.373, and when you go and object, it goes down to $93. When you object to the $1.264 bill, it's 178 lira, and I'm able to increase their numbers and samples, but there's one thing I'd like to point out to you: why did you do it when our citizens applied, where did it come from? They say your watches were out of order. After privatisation of the clocks of people who have lived there since 2007, did SEDAS notice? I went to the area with SEDAS -- one-on-one with SEDAS officials, TOKI officials, and citizens. In the question I asked SEDASH, they say he changed the electric meter here in October 2011 and November. Even though these electric meters were digital clocks that were approved through the control of the Ministry of TEDAS and Science, Industry and Technology at that time. Did he come down from the sky? How did you know the clocks were broken? And I'm assuming that you've decided that the clocks are broken, that there are 1,736 of them in the building, that 670 of them are broken? I'll accept 1.730, if you check them all, if you say they're sound, if you say they're malfunctioning. Who told you that? Where do you come from? From your own pleasure. I've already told you, no one has the right to oversee SEDASH anyway. I'm asking you now: What kind of privatisation did you make with SEDASH? They come and read the clocks whenever they want, reflect their reading costs on the bill; they come and change the clock without consulting anyone, without consulting anyone, without asking them. They do their own control, they do the calibration of the clocks themselves. What kind of contract is that? Where's the government audit? I thought this was a public mission. Is this how you take care of a citizen's problems? Is that how it's privatized? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's another thing I'd like to tell you. I want to trust your government on this, with the measures your government has taken -- even if it's special -- to the point where electricity can be cheap, that services can be good, but come on, that trust is not complete. Here's the thing: you continue to take advantage of the electricity distribution companies you've privatized, to provide advantage, to protect them. I'll give you an example: In Turkey, you've recently increased the profit distribution share of companies or companies that will take over the jobs of all distribution companies by 50% per kilowatt hour. Not enough, you've increased the number of missing fugitives in all areas, with a restructuring of the EPDK. The total cost of these two pens alone is 1.5 billion Turkish liras. Whose pocket is this $1.5 billion Turkish lira that's going to be reflected in the bills? It's coming out of a citizen's pocket. Now, what kind of understanding? Let's privatize, let's get the electricity cheap. You're the one who said it, but the electricity keeps getting expensive. Let me continue with a sad report to my fellow citizens that 20 to 25 percent of electricity will become expensive in the coming months, and we will all live together. Corporates have become richer, and the public is just paying the bill. You have an energy policy. That 80 percent of the electricity is dependent on the outside... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and we're talking about a country with an energy deficit, but at the same time, irresponsiblely, you're watching the distribution of energy and electricity recklessly attract private companies. I'm offering this to your supporters in accordance with our motion at the point of correction. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0064par0120	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Against the law, Alderman Zeki Aygün Here you go, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0124	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Republican People's Party, and I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, I've read the motion. My profession is electrical engineering. Of course, there are always problems, but if my brother Mehmet Crescent had contacted us before giving this motion, I don't think he would have said 25 percent of what he said. Dear friends, let me tell you that before the privatisation of SEDAS, there were no problems, such an exaggerated statement, implying that there were problems after SEDAS was privatized. I'll tell you what, they've just explained the number of missing electricity fugitives. In the state's business, the missing fugitive ratio was 24 per cent throughout Turkey, but the total number of missing fugitives has dropped to 14 per cent, even though the entire region has not been privatised. In Alexandria, before privatising 8.5 per cent, the number of missing fugitives is now down to 6 per cent, and 5 per cent of this is already technically lost, so the loss is around 1 per cent. So if we're trying to figure out what we're suffering from, why did I pay for illegal electricity? Besides, we all know the government isn't a business manager, we've seen it through the living process. So, by privatisation here, we don't privatize property, we rent it to the operator for thirty-three years. We know how successful the private sector is in working life. But here, as a government, we have to be regulators and controllers, and that's what we did.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0066par0128	Check it out, Mr. Ayday. Check it out.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0129	The arrangement of the EPDK (EPDK) is the right arrangement, but as an inspection, we are taking very firm steps today -- that we took out in the bag of legislation before the holiday, and that this is what our Energy Ministry is doing now -- to supervise. Of course, every change, every transformation will be painful. And in order for this pain to go away, we all have to step in. So we're doing a study of this -- of course, we're not idle -- and the context of this work is: Look, we're dealing with the one who solves the problem with the one who has it. What is this study? We bring together our deputy governor, our governor, our mayor, all of our chiefs, and we have a meeting, and we've identified the problems one by one. We've got the best living-in-the-hoods with these problems. These chiefs point out the problems at that meeting, and the friends who are going to solve the problem take notes one by one, and the next day, they and the chiefs find those problems in place, and they tell us their work as a report. So, what this kind of work gives us is this: believe me, we have 12 counties, 12 districts, 12 districts, and the last one at one o'clock this Saturday, and I invite you, Mehmet Bey with Haydar Bey, to see what kind of work we're doing there. So, between the person who's been dealing with the problems here and the one who's been dealing with them...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0066par0131	Mr. Aygun, here are some of the articles you've been to in the previous study.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0132	Look, if you communicate between the people who solve problems and the living, you'll solve this, but you won't be able to solve it by talking to the press, by insulting people. The people in this country who produce, the people who make solutions are our people. It's private, it's your government; if we interpret it that way, we need to see that we're on the wrong track.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0066par0133	Mr. Aygun, do you remember who I insulted?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0134	No, not that you're insulting me, but that's the kind of politics that's been done so far. I would never describe it to you because I know your character.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0067par0135	He's making a generalization.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0136	Yeah. Dear friends, let me tell you the satisfaction of our chiefs in these works: one of the chiefs in this work we've done before in Izmit. We've done this in the same way before in the presence of the governor and all the chosen ones, but we haven't received any results, but I can see from here that these works will yield results. He said with pleasure and with pleasure, and this satisfaction... my request is to you, if you will find out. Of course, it's not that easy to solve problems. Because why? It's a province where 40,000 or 50,000 people migrate a year. Before the earthquake, people lived in city centers, but now it's spreading into villages. The facilities established in the villages were also transformers and lines set up by the 10-15 homes there, but now there are at least 100-150 households where there are 10-15 digits of transformers and lines. So we're also doing this transformation. And I'll tell you what we've done about them: in 2011, we discovered these problems at the head of the OSB and identified our macro-valued investments. In these things, the investment of 100 MVA, sir, at Lakecuk, will be made into investments and double-circuit connections in Karamursel. Other than that, the investment of 100 MVAFs at Izmit headquarters, 100 MVAs at Gebze, OSB, 100 MVAs, 100 MVA investments in Diliskelesi. Of course, these are the investments that came out of that meeting within a year. Other than that, what we do is we work in the local, in the narrower frame, at the borough level, in the pursuit of these studies and at the precise point of solving the problems of citizens. I'm inviting my Kobeeli deputies to the Deepland on Saturday. We'll see what kind of work we do. Dear friends, of course, we don't have a lot of time, we have more time to explain. In this regard, our interested friend told us about the Şekerınar TOKI dwellings referred to as problems. Yes, 636 were detected by SEDAS, where subscribers measured incorrectly by TOKI. The faulty counters have been replaced with new ones, no charge...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0068par0140	Why didn't you check all 1,736?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0141	...the correct timers have been examined in the staff and meter setting laboratory authorized by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, and as a result of the examination, they have been detected that these counters are flawed, missing in different proportions, and new numbers have been placed on the subscribers who are owned by these counters, including their consumption, and the EPDK Customer Services Management has been sanctioned backwards. But this extension limited those five years to one year, because that's the law. So one year, look, you can't get more than 12 months back here. He says, "You can't get more than 12 months." He says, and he does it in installments. So, it's true that these faulty counters were changed in 2011, but this...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0068par0142	Mr. Aygun, who knew the clocks were out of order? How did they suddenly feel the need to go, to change?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0143	Look, the citizen's complaint was filed.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0068par0144	Have the citizen present a petition. I asked a question.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0065par0145	Mr. Mehmet, let's do this here, so let's not talk mutually, but let's just say there's always a problem here, but the technique of going over that problem is important. We've gone over this problem, and we've been able to pay back a year in installments for the energy used by a citizen for five years, and in that sense, their meter is working firmly, and let's give that to your information. Dear friends, of course, these investments are being made in Alexandria. Look, 45 million liras are now invested in the Bigeli, and within them are the network investments of Gebze, Kobeli, Kopeeli, and the 8-MVA-based transformer at the Kaveli center, and on the way to this march -- you know well -- there are at least four transformers placed underground, where the transformers are operating at 80 percent, 90 per cent capacity, and are currently being freed from this distress by increasing their power. The entire network is also controlled centrally by the SCADA system as a medium tension. So, you're not going to call Alo 186 anymore, and you won't have to look for it because if the transformer's turned on anywhere, it's going to look at it as central, and it's going to do it immediately, or it's going to activate the team. As for these lamps... look, about the lamps, we had a bit of a problem, but believe me, we got over it very quickly. It says: Armatures have been found in very inefficient and unusable places, and they are now being arranged, and armature crews are being formed, and these armatures are being made here regularly. I'm asking you to contact the chiefs on this matter, and I'm waiting for you on Saturday. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And from here, I salute all the people of the tribe.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0069par0152	Thank you, Mr. Aygun.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0070par0153	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0069par0154	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0070par0155	Mr. President, at one point in the speaker's speech, it was easy to insult him from here. I want to fix it, it's wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0069par0156	But then he corrected his promise by saying it wasn't meant for you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0070par0157	Is there anyone else here who can explain this?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0069par0158	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0070par0159	Is there anyone else here who's talking about it and who's saying it's insulting?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0069par0160	I didn't say it for you, I said it in general. He fixed it, but you didn't do it. But here's a quick promise. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0070par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have taken my word again on the statements of my beloved Kopeeli MP. In my way, in my political life, there is no insult to anyone, any institution or person, and you know it is not. However, I'd like to share with you what Mr. Aygün told the press at that meeting that he had just been at. Mr. Aygun says I don't approve of the generality of the Undersecretary of Treasury. We've started working in Ankara to change this sector, we'll make a change in the law. The power to the mosque yard and the decorative lighting is wrong, we're going to fix the system. SEDAS only follows the decisions made, the address of the solution is Ankara. Don't wear this institution too hard here, I'll pass it on to Ankara, I'll report it to our Prime Minister. This is his statement. Let me make another thing clear: SEDAS officials expressing that four or five years of electricity bills have been cut due to misreading, and that this sentence has only been taken in the last year, not a donation. In Article 20 of the Energy Market Editing Board's Customer Services regulations, the 20th article mentions that if the subscriber does not have a crime, he should be interviewed by the person. That's not the kind of donation anyone would make, so I made a promise. Mr. Ayday, I'll be with you on Saturday. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0071par0171	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0072par0172	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0071par0176	Lehte, Bursa MP Necati Özensoy. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0073par0179	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal to investigate the problems with the power counters provided by the Republican People's Party. I salute you all. Of course, until electricity bills reach the hands of the citizens, there are a lot of problems with the production of electricity, with some of the problems of that system, and so on and so forth, that when we put it all together, there's a lot of problems that bother the citizen, even the press, and there's applications to the courts. So I think there's actually a point here, at least, when there's a chance to talk about the problems of the citizen, to discuss them, to have the ministers present, but I think the Minister is working with the Republican People's Party on this, so he can't be found here. But I think they should consider the possibility that we can say some very specific things about these things here. Of course, these counters, not only in the area of SEDASH, but in many parts of Turkey, we've always heard that certain loads are being installed on citizens because of the timelessness of the counters or the unregisteredness of them, because of the dismantling of them. But one of the biggest problems that disturbs the citizen has just been mentioned are the missing fugitives. Now, Mr. Ayday gave his speech here, I assume he left. Now, when the Republican People's Party speaker just spoke about how missing fugitives were reflected in the bill, he actually made the right point. Because in 2008, TEDAS went into cost-based pricing, but it didn't go to regional-based costing, pricing. Thus, TEDAS loads these missing fugitives into bills, while the average of missing fugitives throughout Turkey to anyone who pays the bill. Here's the picture of TEDAS. A citizen who pays a bill anywhere in Turkey pays only 57.3 per cent of the price of electricity. In all the numbers on him, I mean, a 20-cent figure goes up to 35.70 cents. So the power money is 20 cents, but the final number is 35.70 cents. And when we looked in it again, he had just mentioned that the missing fugitives had fallen, Mr. Speaker, but somehow three years ago, they had fallen down to 14.5, lost fugitives, but they had gone up to 18, including the missing fugitives of the privatized companies today. In fact, our Minister of Energy, Mr. Secretary, the Department of Energy should be able to answer that. Both technology is developing and distribution companies are privatizing, but whatever the missing fugitive is, it goes from 14.5 to 18. This number is added to the bills -- as I put it here -- to be taken from consumers who are paying their bills again. So the reduction of fugitives only to the technical loss level does not solve the problem of the people there, or the reduction of losses to 5 per cent, up until technical losses elsewhere in Turkey, does not solve the problem of the citizen there. So, there's one thing that I think is that the missing fugitives all over Turkey should be downloaded in that sense, or, in fact, right now, there's one thing that needs to be done right away, and it's a very logical thing to do, and that's to switch to regional-based pricing. I asked the Minister about the budget, and I tried to express his solution. It's true, but I think there's nothing more logical than the state taking over the state's government because it can't control the money that it pays when it's not a citizen's fault, instead of making those missing fugitives here pay for their illegal use of electricity. Of course, when it comes to these counters, actually, again, when we look at the energy corridor, we look at this energy corridor to work more regularly, now we have smart counters, smart systems that are forming. Citizen, look, he doesn't know much about it either. Once in a while, citizens who buy smart counters and put them on, because they don't inform the relevant institutions, they think they have their bills, again, according to an hourly consumption. However, they need to report it to the relevant institutions. And, of course, I also think that if these smart counters across Turkey were to hang out and start pricing electricity at this hour again, they would be of great benefit to Turkey's electricity projection and its production. Because, look, one of the reasons why electricity prices are going up is because the electricity consumption in the point clocks is high, so Turkey's point power is also having trouble meeting electricity in this sense, especially since prices are going too high in PMUM, and the electricity exchanges in PMUM are going up almost 30 per cent, more or less. If we could get the citizens to install these smart counters, and even their bills, in this sense, tell them that their electricity could be more calculated in a way than in the hours they use, then we'd be lowering the costs of electricity consumption in that sense, and in a way, we'd be doing them a favor in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, in a way, So, look, if we give you the numbers in 2009-2010 to be an example of the numbers taken from PMUM to TEDASH, we see in the audit reports that the price he received from PMUM is 23 cents at a time when he received 15 cents from EUAS. So when all of this is mixed up, the prices of TEDASH go up in this sense. Again, there are serious reports of problems caused by the rising of these prices related to PMUM. Again, privatised companies have begun to cancel bilateral agreements in the private sector because prices are now expensive from these parts. Now, about the power surges... unfortunately, the electricity has really hit the hands of the citizen. Although, Mr. Secretary, I think we can make that a little bit clearer on Friday. But, again, with the government's decision to subsidize electricity prices until 2007, probably by a political team, but only after 2007, the electricity prices in 2007, which are 15,81 cents, are up to 35 or 36 cents today, so the citizen is in serious trouble with 120, 130 per cent of these missing fugitives, and so on and so forth. I think it's about this electrical projection, and I think we need to set up a research commission on Turkey's energy policies and consider the views and opinions of the opposition as well, but what is constructive is that we need to get this on a healthier basis. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0074par0193	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Against Siirt MP Afrif Demirkıran. Here you go, Mr. Ironbreaker.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0075par0197	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion on SEDAS. Now, of course, when we examine the case as a specific application of SEDAS, we need to make a separate assessment. In terms of Turkey's general energy policies, electricity distribution lines need a separate perspective if we evaluate it in terms of privatisation of their companies. Of course, there are no lawmakers here, if there are wrong practices in a distribution area that has been privatized and run by the private sector, there is no need to make any defences regarding these wrong practices, nor are there MPs in the districts of Sakarya or SEDAS. We, too, are not behind any wrong practices, and when privatisation is done, the conditions are set, it's clear what the rights of citizens are, and when there is a lack of rights, or loss of rights, of course, they look for those rights, and TEDAS is doing a continuous inspection. But when we look at this proposal, for example, our friends on TOKI dwellings say: OK, there are 670 wrong-points from the TOKI dwellings as much as this. Second, a meter, ten years from now, according to the Law on Measures and Adjustment, must go through a calibration. Unfortunately, in many of our provinces in Turkey, many clocks have not passed through such calibration year after year. For example, there are 1,420,000 subscribers in the SEDAS area, and 1 million 100,000 of them are over ten years old.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0076par0200	The TOKI dwellings were built in 2007, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0075par0201	Oh, they're changing them. Now, there are two ways: either he's going to go, or he's going to do his calibration, or he's going to change it. For some reason, calibration costs are higher, so people prefer to change with more modern, electronic counters. So, in fact, if all the clocks in Turkey are replaced with more modern, electronic, more sensitive counters over time, the country's electricity sector can reach a much better point on both the missing fugitive and efficiency. When we've already privatized, when privatisation is done, the goal is to increase efficiency, the goal is to reduce costs, invest in the private sector, the goal is to prevent the missing fugitive, the goal is to invest more. Now, when we look at the SEDAS region, there was an investment of about 80 million dollars between the three years before privatisation, 2007-2010, and in 2012 alone, there was an investment of 78 million dollars and an investment of 86 million in 2013. Oh, well, when we do that, of course, it's about taking some loads out of the state budget. It's done by the private sector. You're going to say: "What does he do?" Of course, he then incorporates his investments into general costs, under the condition that he's already made them. Now, dear friends, of course, in 2002, when we took over power -- it was just expressed -- there was a missing 25 percent fugitive, and that went down to 14 percent. At the latest budget address, the Minister's statement was 16 percent and our friends just told us here. But it's a fact that the missing fugitive is seriously falling. Oh, one reason is privatisation, but on the other hand, public institutions are also doing more efficient, more sensitive work. Our goal is to reduce the missing fugitive to 10 percent in 2015. A statement about electricity prices was used. I don't want to spend any more time, to be honest, we have a lot of work to do, only there are a few digits I'm going to share with you and leave the podium. For example, in 2002, the price of 0.16 TL/kilovatsaattti electricity is 0.35 in 2012. But when you compare it with minimum wage, there's a minimum wage in 2002 for 1,412 kilowatts of electricity, while in 2012 2,084 kilowatts of electricity... So, our people...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0077par0205	Congressman, you'll have to add indirect tax.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0075par0206	Yes, the price of electricity has increased because in this process, oil has increased 260 per cent in ten years, but the relative industrial electricity has only increased by 18 per cent and only 18 per cent. So with various measures, we're doing everything we can to make sure that our citizens, especially our industry, don't get any more burdens, and we're taking the necessary measures to make sure that our narrow-income citizens can make more purchases by increasing their buying power. Oh, by the way, of course, there are various, other types of measures to reduce the missing fugitive... such as, in 2002, there are 22,000 kilometers of transmission lines in Turkey today. As far as distribution is concerned, we now have a 1 millionkm distribution line as of 2012, when there are 812,000km distribution lines in 2002 -- later, of course, expansions, opening new areas. So, I personally request that this motion be rejected, and I say that I will vote in this way, and that's the way my group sees it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0078par0210	Thank you, Mr. Ironcracker.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0079par0211	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0078par0212	Mr. Bridge, you're in the system.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0080par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, since it's relevant... there's a public service quality of electricity distribution companies, and electricity distribution companies don't disappear by privatisation, but we can clearly see that profit in these privatisations is in the way of public service. In this context, there is also a TREADAS Electric Distribution Company in Thrace. After privatisation, we see the TREDAS Electric Dispersion Company removes 8,113 street lighting and street lightings in a few months, and more interestingly -- in the last week, Tekirdağ (Tekirdağ) issued a fine on 25 mosques in Malkara district of Malkara on average of 15,000 to 20,000 Turkish lira mosques. It is not taken into account by electricity distribution companies that places of worship are a public service quality for illumination of citizens. I'd like to present this to the General Assembly's discretion.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0078par0215	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... The number of hesitations is born. That's why I do it electronically, give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the Republican People's Party group proposal has not been accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups during the consultation board's 27,11,2012 Tuesday (now) meeting, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafting of the laws of 291, 349, 350, 355, 50, 174, 176, 333 and 334 in accordance with the Law Bills and Proposals of Laws and proposals from the Commissions, has been adopted into the ranks of 6, 7, 8, 9, 15, 17, 18, 19, 19 and 20. On Tuesday (November 27, 2012), the General Assembly shall not discuss verbal questions, but shall continue its work as part of the 11th and 1st Articles of Law 6328 until the completion of the vote in the first vote, as part of the 3 candidates reported by the Karma Commission as members of the Human Rights Review Commission; On Wednesday (November 28th 2012), until the completion of talks on the 337th legislature in the unification on Wednesday; Until Thursday, November 29, 2012, the meeting of the 342-line bill in the union completes its talks; On Friday (November 30, 2012), on Friday (November 30, 2012), the meeting of Friday (November 30, 2012) at 2:00 p.m. (November 30, 2012) to continue the work of meeting on Friday's agenda until the meeting of the 11/25 main geneor proposal, which has been published on special agendas, and whether or not the 99th Article of the Constitution will be held on the agenda, will be completed by Friday (November 30, 2012). On Tuesday, December 04, 2012, the unspoken questions were not discussed; 04, 05 and 06 December 2012 on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays until 24 p.m. Up there, at 24 a.m., the day's schedule is completed if the day's schedule cannot be completed; It's recommended. Lehte, İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0081par0243	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. What we're predicting in our group proposal, I'm going to point out in headlines. It's the first agenda for the draft law to come forward. Mr. Simsek, our Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Ali Babacan, are predicting international contracts to be placed on the front of the agenda. Our other group proposal, the other topic, is also about our working hours. We're predicting work until the end of the agenda today. Tomorrow -- Wednesday -- and on Thursdays and Fridays -- we plan to start and work until the end of 2:00. Another topic of our group proposal is about the geneor of our Energy Minister. We're recommending a meeting on Friday. The other title of our group proposal is the programming of the working hours next week. On December 4, 5th and 6th, it's 24th. We recommend that the work be done until 00, and the mergers continue. Again, I'd like to point out which plans will be discussed on the day of our group proposal. As of today, we're predicting the election of the head of the Public Control Agency. On Wednesday, we propose a discussion of Capital Market Law Bill 337. This bill will be discussed as the basic law -- you know -- and is made up of 159 articles in six chapters. On Thursday, we predict the meeting of the Law Bill for Compensation for Late or Participation of Court Decisions, with the length of Judiciaries 342 rows. On Friday, our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner, we're recommending a motion for a gene-referencing motion on Star. Dear lawmakers, the EC PARTY requests your support in our group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0082par0252	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. Against Çanakkale MP Ali Sarıbaş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0083par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable MPs, of course, there's no problem with our Parliament's work, but in this regard, it's really in the common sense of all these suggestions, I think it's in the common interest of the House to argue whether it's urgent or correct. Of course, a visit to Çanakkale, Çanakkale, and again at Bandirma, with 11 of our friends, and also in the public study proposal. I was in favor of that and a quick investigation like this. But I see that there is no decision except to prepare and dictate the AKP Group agenda, and in that sense, I have made a promise. Dear lawmakers, as the Republican People's Party on this matter, we have determined in its place that production has not been produced since 28 August 2012, when we visited and examined the Bell Termik Operator and coal mines with a delegation from the KCE Commission and the Energy Commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Considering the damage of this plant -- which will cover 1.5 per cent of our country's electricity production in three months without production -- in three months' time, 63m dollars -- to the country's economy, it is not right to be watched knowingly and willingly not to produce, and therefore to see our country suffer about $400,000 a day. That's why I'd like to bring it up here. My dear friends, the 18 March Bell Termic Plant, one of the national values of our country, was chosen to build a area of 1,600 acres for the purpose of producing electricity, costing $400 million due to the presence of 70 million tonnes of linite reserves containing high sulfur in our region. It covers 1.5 per cent of electricity production in our country. The maximum efficiency here, theoretically, at 48 per cent, was 49.5% at the Bell Termic Plant. For him here, especially given the price of energy production in Turkey in recent years, we know that when we look at the rise of electricity prices, we know that the cost of one kilowatt is 6-7 cents, especially in power plants that we produce from our own furnaces. The power plants that we get from natural gas also show that 1 kilowatts are between 14 and 16 cents. Now, in our country, we see thermal plants, local coal-powered plants, down to 17 percent in 2000, at 27.5% in 2010, during the ten-year process. So we see that our external dependency is becoming increasingly low in the production of increased electricity, especially in this denominator of our domestic production. In 2008, electricity production was produced by natural gas by 37 per cent, while in 2010 it also increased to 46.5 per cent. In other words, we see an increase in our outside dependency. Again, the country's share of import and natural gas electricity production in 2010 was 54.4, while the share of electricity produced by domestic sources was 45.6 per cent. It's a very important facility for our country. Unfortunately, it hasn't produced electricity for three months. At this rate, there's no telling when he'll produce it. My fellow lawmakers, on August 15, 2012, I made a motion to ask the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to respond to the environmental disaster in Kütahya, as my countrymen complained that toxic gas and dust leaked through the thermal plant's chimney and threatened human health, and I expressed my concerns about the plant. Of course, the power plant was working at that time. After two and a half months, the answer came to my side, saying that since October 28, 2012, no harmful gas emissions or dust from the chimney would be able to contaminate the environment. When we say why, it's because the bell thermal power plant has been shut down since August 28, 2012, so it doesn't produce electricity. Well, for about three months, why didn't this thermal plant produce about 1.5 per cent of the total production of our country? When we said, "Sir, we don't have the limestone mixed in the coal to be ignited." Look at Bahane, because we don't have any limestone, we're out of contract with the company that supplies the limestone. It has been called off since August 28, 2012. Dear friends, it hurts. Could such an important and precious facility have been shut down for three months because of the lack of a limestone contract? So I want to say right now, in this first tender here, the production, the lime tender, there's really only one firm out there, and when we go, the company at that facility stops and is auctioned off. The tender, held on December 13, 2011, is also cancelled according to Article 16 of Law 4734. So the motive is to cancel the company Fernas and the facility that's there and the Fernas company is giving its reason for canceling, and they're calling it off. In the same way, the agreement on the purchase of limestone from February 28, 2012 is also cancelled on the 5th Amendment of Law 4734, since it is not on its own account of the complaint of the same firm. And if you look at the 5th article, you'll see that there are not enough public officials there who need to negotiate. A technical error such as this simple and known for its predetermined existence, I suppose, has another purpose in public. Again, the contract for the final tender, which will be made after this, is still being technically added, and it is decided to be carried out on 27/12/2012. And if we look at the new technical condition here, it seems that the technical condition on that firm is that there are also conditions for the tender to be made in accordance with it, and in that sense, a tender that is as important as this, closed within three months, must be insisted on giving it to the firm. My dear friends, it's a shame that the thermal power plant of a stove that's been so efficient here for three months is not only employed because one firm took the limestone there. Is it also interesting that the Ministry responds when we ask them to do so because of the production of natural gasses in other places in Turkey? In other parts of Turkey, when we look at the tenders for calcification, we see that no calcification tenders have been postponed. And for that purpose, especially here, is it really a real public harm to have this tender done in this way and to have our people use electricity in this country in an expensive way and cost 11 cents, while on the other hand, to have it removed from natural gas, which cost 14, 16 cents, and especially to have it increased and privatized, and to have it not run efficiently? I think it's public damage. Why aren't we well directed? Why is this stove... the same is not the same reason Sivas Gangal is not being run at the moment. Dear friends, come, let's put the research proposals on our agenda this week and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...let's talk about things that don't happen to all the public-destructive tenders. I offer love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0084par0276	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Lehte, Bulu MP Ali Ercoshkun. Here you go, Mr. Ercoshkun.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0085par0280	Thank you, Mr. President. Our motion is justified, and I have made a pledge in favor of myself. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, dear friends, as you know, budget negotiations will begin shortly in the coming days. Before the budget talks, there are some laws that the market, us, many areas have waited for. The Capital Market Law is one of them. After that, we need to discuss a number of laws that we need to implement with urgency. As of Friday, there will be a discussion on the geneorization of our Minister of Energy. I say I will vote in favour of our motion; I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0086par0284	Thank you, Mr. Ercoshkun. Against Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0288	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the group's proposal from the Justice and Development Party Group. First of all, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, we go through this every Tuesday, and we repeat it every time. I think we're close to seven o'clock, so we've been discussing this for about four hours. The reason is that, dear friends, the legislature, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has two basic tasks. One is to establish law in accordance with the needs of society, to establish law, so to ensure that the country's administration becomes a useful form, that's our first duty, but our second duty is to oversee the implementation of legislation, which is to oversee the government; this is the fundamental duty of opposition parties, a constitutional task given in the nation. Therefore, if you remove the opportunities that opposition parties have available in the Civil Code to oversee the government, with group proposals, the opposition parties have only one possibility left, which is to ensure that the public will be able to discuss the issues that are important to our people as well as to the public's attention. Therefore, we repeat here every week that it is no use for you to impose a challenge with the General Assembly, given the excuse for the group proposals given by opposition parties, given the excuse, given the justification, and by trusting the numerical majority of the ruling group here. Now, most of these problems would be over if one hour of verbal questions were answered, but now you're forced to discuss things here for three hours, four hours, one hour. I think it's true, it's good because we've discussed three issues with valuable lawmakers, my valued citizens who have been following us here today, with group proposals from opposition parties: First, we've brought up for 40 minutes the investigation into the cause and consequences of business accidents and occupational illness, which is the subject of the nationalist Action Party's proposal. Well, that's good, because one of the most important problems of our country today is business accidents. The heat hasn't dried yet, and the business accident that happened in Samsun, which upsets all of us deeply... is similar to that... which is the third place in the world, which is where you're so proud of, in business accidents, where you've come from. E, we've requested that the reasons and consequences of all this be discussed, the measures that need to be taken. Well, it's nice to have 40 minutes here, and we've discussed each group's opinion. I think it's useful. The second issue is that the Republican People's Party Group has brought in irregularities in energy distribution. Indeed, today energy has a very important place in society, in our country's life, in economic social life, and there are some very important claims that some corruption has been committed. Let's have a general discussion, you're not doing it. The gene is being given -- there is such a geneorial debate this week on Friday -- and you consider the gene question an opportunity to praise your government. I'm afraid you're hiding the facts from the public's eyes by flipping the numbers. Another issue: We have ensured that another group of us, the Peace and Democracy Party, will talk about the effects of events in Syria, especially in our border counties and counties, and how good it is. Here's what happened, five of our people have lost their lives in Akchakale, and there are things that are likely to happen, and I think there's a lot of use in negotiating them together. I repeat: if you take control of the Legislative Assembly, which is one of the two main tasks of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, there is a way, based on the Civil Code, there is a way, and here, today, look, you still haven't been on the agenda in four hours. Now, let's take a look at what you've brought up. Dear ruling party MPs, I give you your attention, we work, but you don't understand what's going on with you. Look, we've made another decision today, we'll work through it, whenever it's over. Secondly, we'll be working until the end of tomorrow. It's time for chores again.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0088par0296	Relax, we'll make a deal.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0297	Right?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0088par0298	It'll be over early.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0299	So you're saying we're okay with it. You don't have the right to work until the end, but you don't have the right to torture these MPs.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0088par0300	No, no... not until it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0301	Now, dear friends, look, I'll tell you something: last week, on the 20th, we made a decision from the Council of Counsellors. The Council of Counsellors for the 26th Assembly of the 20/11/2012, which we agreed on as part of the ruling party group's proposal. This is the Council of Counsellor's 15:00-20 on Tuesday. We were supposed to work 00 hours. You're making decisions today. We're going to work until the end... Again, 5, 6, 12, 13, 19, 20, 26, 27 December, you fully program the next month, and you say: ▪14,00-20. We're going to work between the hours. So, excuse me, I'm going to tell my dear colleague from here, you can't see the end of your nose, you can't even see the tip of your nose. So, I present to you the attention of my nation who entrusted you with Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0088par0303	Your Honor, that frame is a suggestion.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0304	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, I'm reporting you to my people. You can't even plan a week. You know the budget talks will begin after next week. We'll finish the budget negotiations at eight o'clock. You'll have a record of that, Mr. Canikli. It's not a matter for you to make a decision in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0088par0305	Of course, we'll also bring the budget, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0306	I don't believe it! So, look, every time you're here, like this, you're making fun of people's minds. It's possible to properly identify it. Last week, it's 20 o'clock today. I'm afraid you're not supposed to be working until the end of the day, not until the end of the day. Look at what you've brought up today: 1509 articles, SEC, an important law. It hasn't been changed in 20 years. A variety of changes in economic life or, at work, the Turkish Penal Code must be made in parallel with changes made in the Law on Trade and Debts. One hundred and fifty-nine articles, six sections. Today, Mr. Elitaş of the Council of Counsellors says: "We will finish in one day. " Dear MPs, a hundred and fifty-nine articles and six chapters will be completed in one day! Will it be over, Mr. Secretary? It's not over. I mean, reading 500-word motions, you can only finish one chapter or you can't. Now let's look for reconciliation. You say, well, thank you, but you have to call the settlement before you get here. By realizing this lack, Mr. Secretary is calling a meeting tomorrow at one o'clock, so let's make the compromise at the Commission an hour before the talks of the law begin. We see a profit in that too, but you should've done it earlier. It's such an important law. Have you read the grounds for this law, lawmakers? It's really well prepared, like a manifesto, so there's a very good reason for the importance of the capital market, for its development, for its example in the world, and there's a debate on these grounds, a debate between groups, a joint text. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're building a law here, law. With the law we've established, we have to make the country's rule fair, efficient, efficient, but we need to build it together. If you say, "I've done it." We'll see here tomorrow, you'll make a lot of motions, you'll have to push again, a lot of problems. So, dear friends, I'd like to remind you again that you stole from people's time. Unfortunately, it's very important, without seeking a compromise with the opposition, without arguing together, without negotiating together, the negotiations are held together, it's already called information. He doesn't do it properly, but we have a numerical majority, and the tip of the fingers decides everything. If you say so, I think those fingers are contaminated in one of the last sessions. You've wiped out an insult with your fingers, you've soiled your pretty fingers. With these fingers, we can do it if we want to. I don't think it's very helpful or right to say it.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0089par0313	The will of our friends is pure, and pure.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0314	So, Mr. Canikli, you don't have the opportunity to change the agenda you've set up because the budget is coming, the budget talks have its own course, and since you won't interfere with it, I assume you'll have to bring in another Council.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0089par0315	Sure, he'll be here. I mean, every time...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0087par0316	I wish you all the best, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0090par0318	Thank you, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0091par0321	Mr. President, we want roll call, we have a roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0090par0322	Request for roll call... Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Öğbaba, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Önal, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Atsici, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Young, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Cierdarr, Mr. Serindag, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Onur, Mr. Öz. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, I will have it read and processed, and then I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My 2/401 Act Original Proposal is not in the commission in 45 days, so your civil code is 37. In accordance with the terms of the matter, I respectfully submit to the need to be brought up directly. 17.05.2012 İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal as the bidder. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, a moment of silence, please. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0092par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I pay my respects to all of you. The essence of the law proposal is the following valued lawmakers: 70,000 patients are currently receiving dialysis treatment in our country, 21,000 of which are urgently waiting for organs. Whatever parts of the vehicles have, there is no mechanism or factory that produces the spare part of mankind. For him, when we look at the definition of organ transplant, organ or tissue transplant means transplanting tissue or organs from a donor to a recipient for healing. Professor Dr. Mehmet Haberal, who is currently imprisoned in the Silivri dungeons, is a scientist who has done his first successful organ transplant in our country. While Mr. Haberal was doing this study on organ transplants, he also worked hard to prepare legislation in our country, and at the time he did a large shuttle between the university and the legislative body, and the law on organ and tissue transplants is a law in our country that was enforced in 1979 by the great contributions and efforts of Mr. Haberal. In this sense, we send greetings and greetings to Mr. Haberal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, in our country, of course, what is the difference between our legal arrangements in other countries regarding this transplant? There are 20,000 organs waiting in our country, but... well, how do we get this transplant? It can either be taken from the live transmitter or taken from the dead, as we call it. In our country, as you can appreciate, there's a continuous organ mafia; the organ mafia is all organ donors. If there's only one way to prevent it, the organ must be removed from the cadaver. There are no cases of organ mafia in the world and in our country. In this sense, if we really want to provide organs for our citizens who are waiting for organs, there's a glitch in the existing system, so we can't provide a continuous organ. So, what's the way to do this? My request from all lawmakers is that I am an MP just like you. This card I've shown you, I've donated all my existing organs. Why is that? The reason is because organs can't be produced. Since the organ will not be able to be produced, since it will melt away as a land, it is a very important, sacred, and applaudable act to sustain a person's life. In that sense, I invite all lawmakers to donate organs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, dear friends, you can say, yes, is there any legal or religious barrier to organ donation? There are no religious barriers. In what sense is there no religious obstacle? In 1980, in accordance with the article given by the President of the Religious Affairs, there is nothing wrong with it; and also in the 32nth verse of the House of Maiden, who gives life to anyone, who will receive the reward as if he had given life to all mankind, there is no barrier to religion in that sense. So, how do other countries relieve this organ deficiency, its boredom? We've got two examples: we've got Belgium, we've got Spain. In the example of Belgium and Spain, it is said: "If a person is eighteen years old, if he has the power to appeal, if he understands the actions and consequences of his action, if he does not forbid the removal of his organ after his death, then it means free will." In this sense, it's really a very important flaw. That's how we're going to deal with the lack of that in our case. Twenty thousand people waiting for organs is the population of one county. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Seventy thousand people on dialysis is the population of one province. For him, it's the political institution's duty, and for this problem to be resolved, it's the law that needs to be passed. I hope you'll all support me for this, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0093par0358	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mersin MP Aytug Horseman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0094par0362	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own, on the basis of our proposal to facilitate organ donation. I salute all lawmakers who value human life and do not see health as a profitable business. Dear friends, today thousands of people in our country are waiting in line for transplants. If you think about your own relatives, I'm sure some of the members of the lawmakers who are under the roof of this great House are suffering from it. Even further, I can tell you that as a physician, we all, tomorrow, tomorrow, we may need an organ. I mean, if you consider it, this law that we're going to make can drown both you and your loved ones and your loved ones and all of us. I wonder if you ever thought about it. I've got fellow physicians, and they've lived in hospitals. Have you ever talked to them about waiting in line for a transplant? When the organ arrived, did you ever see the glare in that person's eye? Have you ever seen dreams fade when you wait a long time and can't find organs, dear friends? If you don't have any physicians, I'm sure you've never witnessed them, but I have doctors among you, and they've witnessed them, just as I've witnessed them, over and over. Are organs and tissue transplants in Turkey? Yes, it's done with great success. So, are there many patients? We have thousands of patients. So, is there a transplant doctor? We have very successful doctors. So, what's missing? It's the organ that's missing. Tens of thousands of dialysis patients move into machines every day, and tens of thousands of patients now hate this life. Look, according to the Law that's in effect, anyone who's sane, who's far-sighted, who's over 18 can donate his organs if he wants to, but when he suddenly loses a car crash, that person's parents have to let him go. Today, only 24 per cent of families say yes when asked for organs from people who are being treated for brain death in Turkey. 76 per cent say no. And we say, "Come, let's be responsible for thousands of people's problems, if no human has declared otherwise to be given an organ, I want to be buried with my organs. If he didn't say, and this person has developed brain death, let's take his organs and give them to the people who need them. In this way, believe me, we'll be in front of the organ mafia, we'll be in the way of organ trafficking, and we'll be spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to get transplants, and we'll eliminate this obstacle to our people going abroad, and we'll be a beacon of hope for these people, and that's really something that needs to be considered. Well, you follow the money business very carefully, for the greater good of the country. Let me give you a small number: we only paid 1 billion euros for dialysis material, 1 billion euros. If we could get those kidneys and save these people, we wouldn't be spending this much money in any way, my dear friends. Did the Ministry of Health recover from the Ten Years of Health Transformation Programme? No. Why? Because it's not a job that makes a lot of profit. I wonder how many more decades it's gonna take to get through this? So I expect Mr. Health Minister to stand up here -- in the General Assembly -- to say yes to this law; as a physician and as a person who manages health, I want him to stand up and say yes. Because he has to also say yes. I think he can do what he couldn't do in a decade now. Dear friends, when we look at the numbers, we're first in life transports in Europe, we have great potential, but we're last in cadaver transplants. I'm saying, if you say no to this law, maybe one day you'll get a conscience transplant, and those who say no, we'll get a conscience transplant. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit02spe0095par0374	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, it's 20 o'clock. I'm taking a break until 00.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0095par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0096par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0095par0003	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0096par0004	Now, I think, on the agenda, we're going to go to the election of the state inspector. I'd like to present a matter to the General Assembly and to your attention before we proceed with the election of a public auditor, and I'd like to open a discussion of procedure in this framework. Meetings carried out earlier by the Karma Commission, consisting of members of the Committee for Human Rights Commission and members of the Proposal Commission on the election of a public supervisor and the election of a public supervisor, were held behind the rules that should be sought in a democracy. It may be said that this election was made in accordance with the Civil Code, but the results of the elections, which led to the General Assembly, were made without the search for a qualified majority in a democracy, which should be sought in the election of a public auditor or a public supervisor. So if you'll excuse me, sir, I'd like to address this matter from the council bench in the context of a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0095par0006	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0097par0007	Mr. President, you haven't made a statement, what attitude?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0096par0008	Well, maybe if anyone wants to talk in favor, that's him, too.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0095par0009	You're against it. You wish to speak against my attitude. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0096par0013	Mr. President, the law on public justice and public supervision was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 14 June 2012 and then published. In all democracies, it is a fundamental feature of citizens in all law states to be protected and protected from the administration of fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. The main feature of democratic societies is that the individual's rights and freedoms are guaranteed against the state, against the administration. In law states, the main thing in democracies, of course, is that the government's practices are controlled by the judiciary, but there are some issues that may occasionally be a problem for the individual in the audit conducted by the judiciary. Judgement calls for an appointed time. A citizen's government must risk a very long period of time when a government agency resorts to the judiciary for any action by a municipality. Again, secondly, it takes a cost to appeal to the judiciary. To sue is to pay a fee, to pay an allowance. Not all of our citizens are able to pay this tuition, or is it possible that the administration can hesitate because of that cost factor, and therefore give up the case. Again, litigating requires certain forms of conditions. There's a pattern of motive, you're going to act in this form, you're going to hire a lawyer... because of all this time, because of the costs, the path of trial may not always be a way for citizens, even in all democracies, developed democracies. Therefore, democracies, democracies that care about the rights and freedoms of the individual, have also included an effective control method in their constitutional systems, management systems, which is called ombudsmanism in those countries, public supervision in Turkey. The public audit agency is a very important institution. If, due to the procedures of the citizen's administration, the administration has to comply with the decision made by the judiciary in the case of its actions due to its actions, while the administration has to comply with the decision made by the judiciary, the citizen must not comply with the decision made by the public auditor. The law, in this way, is not wrong, nor incomplete. In all countries, the practice has been based on the same model of our law, a decision by the public auditor is a recommendation for government agencies. How, though, will this provide effective supervision if the decision of the public auditor is a matter of recommendation, if the administration does not have to comply? In order to provide effective audits, the public inspector must be positioned as independent of all policies, government practices, even the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, only successful if this is done. But that's not the way the law came out. The law has given the ruling party the opportunity to determine the public auditor and the public head of state by the election of the ruling party, which has a majority in parliament, which is wrong. In order to address this breach of the law in the Commission, our members of the Commission for the Rights and Human Rights have made a proposal to elect public auditors with a clear agreement. However, trusting the majority of the ruling party, we don't need it. He said we don't need it. And in that frame, the election of the head of state came here today. Now, there's going to be a public defender's election. The person who gets out of here has to be a person who is free of controversy to be a person who can be trusted and has the reputation of all the public. However, the government's desire to make this choice based on its own majority...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0098par0021	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0096par0022	I'm tidying up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0098par0023	Okay, let's take your last sentence. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0096par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. The government's or the ruling party's desire to do so has clouded the election of the public manager. We don't think such a choice is right. That's why he attended the first meetings of the Karma Commission in the election of the public auditor, but later our friends failed to participate in that election. In the event that the same attitude continues here, I'm here to announce that we can't participate in this election. I would also like to advise the person who will be elected head of state: If he really wants to do a successful job, the majority of the government must put aside the fact that the ruling party has chosen him, but then he will be independent, neutral. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0099par0030	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Lehte, Kayseri MP Elitaş. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0100par0034	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The Law on Public Control has passed and passed the law on Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly. Since Turkey's Grand National Assembly was on vacation, this June, the election was not made in July. The law already has the necessary arrangements. The Karma Commission has reached an agreement on those who have applied to it and has submitted three candidates under the law to the information of valued members to be elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the next secret vote we're going to take, it's going to end with a secret vote on who our three candidates prefer. So it is not in my opinion that this should be considered in accordance with the rules and fundamentals of the law, that it can't be done here in this way. It is not in my opinion that it will open a legal debate about the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly's Institution, or the position of the current Parliament's Presidential Court. Because the Karma Commission has expressed its views on this issue, has submitted its results to Parliamentary President, and Parliamentary Presidency has put its views on when and how it will be held in accordance with the procedures and foundations, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly will vote today, in a moment, to elect the public auditor, the head of the board. The procedure, I say, has not revealed anything contrary to the rules of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The decision we just made by the Speaker of Parliament is that the group proposal received by the AK PARTY group is in the form of the continuation and conclusion of the species today. It is an arrangement for the execution of an application written in the law today. Since there is no situation for the Council of Parliament to take place on this issue, we feel it would be wise to run for office. With these views, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0101par0040	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Against Manisa MP Free Special.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0102par0042	Sir, I gave it to Sezgin Godkulu in writing, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0101par0043	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0102par0044	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0101par0045	Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0103par0047	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a very important institution -- ombudsmanism, public supervision -- and it's very important that they've been brought to Turkey, but the way they've been brought in, the way the law itself and the way it's being brought in, is already at very high cost. Now, you'll have a choice here in a moment. There are some very serious allegations regarding the election regarding the possible candidate you're going to choose. I was one of the lawyers involved in the Hrant Dink case. I also know that the process leading Hrant Dink to the process of death began with a judicial process, and I know that one of the people who contributed to that conviction process will soon arrive here before this great Assembly as a candidate for a public auditor. Even this alone is clouding this choice. The fact that a candidate with a negative contribution in the process of a case that has suffered so much damage to the public conscience and has caused so much trauma is something we really need to think about a lot. We could have done this successfully, turned the law into a qualified majority, or you could have received the opposition's opinion on the lower commission and on the Commission, and we could have reached an agreement on the qualifications of the supervisor and the qualifications of the auditor's assistants, or we could have created a consensus, we could have formed a congressional tradition, but unfortunately you didn't. Now, I have here a book by Orhan Gazi Erkin, which I mentioned earlier -- on this bench -- called Hallolundýn. It mentions a senior judge on page 79, so I suggest you read this chapter. Now, the fact that someone with such qualities, who claims to be such a person, will soon be elected by you as a public auditor is not really acceptable to this House, not objectively accurate, not accurate in their qualifications. I'm not referring to the qualifications of the other candidates, but if we want to turn the public audit agency into an EU-standard institution, I suggest you not to make this choice here today, not to do it in spite of the ban. If you do, you'll make this institution look like any other institution, and you'll turn it into a dysfunctional state. He's being brought in to oversee public supervision, power and the practices of the state, but it would be in no way appropriate for you to clear your practices and bring people who have testified at certain tables here in this reliable institution. Also, there are other allegations about him, and I don't want to name names, there are allegations that he's been referring to acquitting in many cases or other matters. I leave these allegations to your conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0104par0054	Lehte...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0105par0055	Mr. Akman, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0104par0057	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, Mr. President, you've been in session at exactly 8:00 p.m. today. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group said he'd like to open a discussion about the procedure after you've just announced that you've opened the session. But you hadn't even submitted what you were going to do, what you were going to discuss to the General Assembly yet. In that sense, it is in the President's discretion to open a formal debate, although I am looking at the 63rd article of the Civil Charter, which regulates the discussion of the procedure: whether there is room for discussion, whether it is a meeting, whether it is the President's invitation to comply with the working procedures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or thirdly -- issues of procedure, such as putting one issue forward or left behind -- are discussed before other work. There is a statement in the first joke. I couldn't really relate to any of this. I have to express it first. But now you're having a formal discussion. During this course of discussion, we have somehow been able to discuss a job that we should be doing under the command of the 74th Article of the Constitution today. However, you, as the Presidential Court, have fulfilled the right of the fourth joke, which states that the head of the public administration, which has been made very clear in Article 74 of the Constitution, will be elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for four years and will express the procedures of this vote. There are no irregularities in this sense. Again, as a friend of yours who had worked hard in drafting this constitutional amendment and the law, I want to make it clear that as a friend of yours, as a friend of the Commission of Karma, who had followed the decision-making process and other steps, the Constitution has seen no violations of the law laid out in Article 74, and in the special law. If Mr. Hamzacebi is objecting, there is a majority of the AK PARTI here, which is the majority of the AK PARTI, I think it should appeal to the public, not to object to the procedure here on June 12, 2011, because it would be an objection to the people's decision on June 12, 2011. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There is nothing to object to during this General Assembly work. It all goes on in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, the Civil Code and the relevant law, and as the Presidential Court has decided in the First Session on this issue, so today the General Assembly has decided that these elections will be held on the recommendation of the AK PARTI Group. It's being performed today. There's no irregularities. I'd like to move on to the elections as soon as possible. I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0106par0064	Thank you, Mr. Akman.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0107par0065	Mr. President, the speaker has made an assessment of only one part of my speech. I've talked about the election of the head of state and the election of the public inspectors. Article 74 of the Constitution shall organise only the selection of the head of state.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0104par0066	But we're not discussing this here, if you'll be careful.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0107par0067	The matter of the election of the public inspectors is regulated by law, but there is also a search for a qualified majority, with the bill that the government has brought here, and with the legal law. Now, if the speaker removes only the part of my speech about the chief of staff and skips the part about what happened in the Commission on the matter of the state inspector, he'll be missing an assessment. The issue begins with the election process of public auditors in the Commission. Choosing a public defender is his second phase. The same understanding has been established in both elections: we will make this choice with the majority of our power, with the majority of our Parliament, by ourselves, and we do not need you. That is my criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0071	The matter is clear, sir. Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. As a court, there is no change in our decision. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now, we're going to start the election for the public leadership in this section. According to the provisions of Articles 11 and 1 of the Constitutional Court of Public Control 74 and 6328, the election will be held under a secret vote. In the first two votes, two thirds of the total number of members -- 367 votes, the only majority of the members in the third vote -- will be sought; if the third vote does not provide a single majority, the fourth vote will be held for the two candidates who have won the most votes, and the fourth vote will be elected to the highest candidate, provided there are enough votes. Now, I'm reading the names of the three candidates for public chairpersons appointed by the Karma Commission, members of the Committee for Human Rights Review: Yavuz Erkmen, Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu, Halime Nuray Turcan. The ballot containing the names of the candidates appointed by the Commission has been printed by the President. I now propose how the secret vote will be held: from the members of the commission and the government in the order of the government, the clerks during the commission, from Adana to Denizli -- including Denizli -- and from Diyarbakir to Istanbul, from Diyarbakır to İstanbul, including Istanbul -- the clerk members will sign the name of the MP from İzmir to Mardin, starting with Mardin -- and from Mersin, to Zonguldak, starting with the name -- to Zonguldak, to Zonguldak. The MP who will use the vote will enter the voting booth after receiving the ballot with the sealed ballot, which of the candidates will vote on the ballot, mark the box in front of the candidate's name with a cross sign, and then place the ballot in the envelope in the cabin, and then throw it in the ballot boxes placed in front of the Presidential Court stand. I would like to point out what the members of the vote will be paying attention to: the box in front of only one of the candidates will be marked when the vote is used. The ballots marked by multiple candidates will be invalid. The cabins are put in the same colorless pens, and the members will use these pens. On the ballot, the vote will be invalid in any case, such as any sign, signature, scribble, or use a colored pen other than the pens in the cabins. The current vote will carry no sign except the cross mark. I'm stating that the vote will be confidential, so there will be no acting vote. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Hand over the sealed ballots and envelopes to the members of the clerks who will be used in the first vote. Congressmans, I'm detecting a five-man commission with a name drawn for the census and transcript of the vote: Balıkesir MP Ali Aydınlıoğlu? No.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0109par0090	Mr. President, in your statement just now, you have a confidential vote... (x) 356 S. The number is added to the printer's report.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0092	Samsun MP Jamalettin Lightning? Here. Kilis MP Fuat Karakuk? No. Bursa MP Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu? Here. Denizli MP Nihat Zeybekci? Here. Iconian MP Faruk Bal? No. Afyonkarahisar MP Sait Akba? No. Adana MP Ali Küzaydın? No. Mr. Sinan Okan, the Iğdır MP? No. Ankara MP Haluk İpek? Here. Burdur MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım? Here. These 5 Congressmans will be in charge of the Commission for Accounting.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0103	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0104	Yes, please, Mr. Elistash.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0105	You've just made a statement in your statement that the vote will be held, that the power of attorney cannot be voted.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0106	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0107	It's against the Constitution and the Civil Code, to discuss...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0108	It's not indiscriminate, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0109	Mr. President, I'd like to start a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0110	There is no decisive verdict. That's how it was used in another vote. It's not up to the spirit of a secret vote, sir, to vote by the law.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0111	Mr. President, I'd like to open a discussion of your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0112	The Constitution has no clear provisions and is clear.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0113	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0114	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0115	According to Article 63, I'd like to open a legal debate on your application.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0116	We're running for office.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0117	Mr. President, but you made a statement of will when you entered the election. You can't make that choice without a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0118	Mr. Elitaş, I've applied this app -- you can look at it -- before.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0119	Mr. President, by the use of authority that you have not received from the Constitution and the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0120	Look, lawmakers, it's against the spirit of a secret vote to vote as a proxy in a secret vote. You can vote by proxy in the open vote, but it's against confidentiality to vote by proxy in a secret vote. This is an open issue in the Constitution. So...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0121	Mr. President, on what basis do you close the open part of the Constitution? On what grounds do you judge? Mr. President, according to Article 63...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0122	The Constitution did not specify a secret vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0123	Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0108par0124	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0125	According to Article 63, I would like to open a formal discussion of your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0111par0126	Mr. President, the vote has begun.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0112par0127	There will be no discussion of procedure while the vote continues, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0128	Mr. President, Mr. Group, while there was nothing about the procedure that the Vice President entered regarding the procedure debate...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0113par0129	Now, members of parliament, we have begun to vote. The Commission has also been elected.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0130	Would you excuse me, Mr. President? Mr. President, let me finish one thing, and then...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0113par0131	Please... you'll see this if you examine the practices we've done before.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0110par0132	Mr. President, would you excuse me? After you declared your will, I object, Mr. President, your statement is against the order. I said... I said, I'm drawing. You said. As soon as you said your will before the vote, I brought it up. Sir, if you'd like to discuss the procedure, let's consider it according to Article 63.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0114par0134	Mr. President, there's a procedure...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0115par0135	I mean, the procedural debate...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0116par0136	Yeah, doesn't your conscience hurt?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0117par0137	Mr. President, the moment I make a request like this, according to 63, you will not evaluate this issue, you will evaluate it based on the outcome of the procedure debate.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0115par0138	Yes, please, Mr. Elistash. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we'd like to discuss the procedure... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0118par0141	Mr. President, are you going to write down those who want a word in favor?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0119par0142	I want a word against it. I want you to take the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0120par0144	You're welcome, Mr. Elistash.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0147	Mr. President, what you're doing is not in accordance with the Constitution, nor is it in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0122par0148	And what you do doesn't fit into anything, it doesn't fit into your conscience.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0149	But right now, you, yourself, you... Mr. President, are you listening to me? It's about you...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0123par0151	I hear you. You address the General Assembly, I do.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0152	Mr. President, but it's not the General Assembly's opinion, it's your opinion that has come first. If you will comply with the decision of the General Assembly, let us speak according to Article 63. Right now, without your opinion of the General Assembly, I'm doing this kind of practice in your own opinion, and that's the way it's been done in the past. Without showing us any examples, maybe it's your own practice, but it didn't happen. I've been here for six years. I've been deputy leader of the group. I've been a congressman for ten years. As a matter of fact, Article 96 of the Constitution has made arrangements on where the Council of Ministers will give power of attorney. There's enough meetings and decisions, look, 96...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0124par0155	Speak to the General Assembly, sir, I do.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0156	Yes, Mr. President. The second joke of Article 96 is that members of the Council of Ministers can give a minister the authority to vote instead of themselves at the meetings where the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not attend. Only a minister can vote two votes with his own vote. Our Civil Code has also defined the secret vote in Article 147: no secret voting can be held in the cases in which the Constitution or by law stipulates that open voting is mandatory, or in the cases in which the State of the Union states that the situation is mandatory, or in the cases in which the open vote is carried out under the Court of Law. In order to get a secret vote out of the above, the above joke requires a motion by twenty MPs to request a secret vote and the adoption of this request in the General Assembly. The decision is taken by a non-controversial sign.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0125par0161	This is how the secret vote is to be held, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0162	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0125par0163	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0164	Article 128 also experienced the procedure of the secret vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0125par0165	He did...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0166	Republicans are given three rounds of white, green and red. The round will be used as a vote, and it will be thrown into the box shown for it. The other two circles are also left at the designated location. Look, Mr. President, the Civil Code has made an arrangement on how to vote in the secret vote, and the Constitution has given us the part about who the members of the Council of Ministers will be acting as proxy. You are now in violation of the Constitution by the power vested in sitting on the presidential bench by your own will.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0126par0168	There's no power of attorney in a secret vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0121par0169	Even in the process of our 26-point constitutional amendment, even as we hold the Constitutional ballots, the members of the Council of Ministers voted for others in all voting so far. It's a contract between the voter and the trustee, and at which point it's left to its elders to declare the vote, no matter what kind of vote, any minister has expressed the color of the vote if he votes to another minister. In this sense, it is unconstitutional for you to state that the secret vote is not a secret vote in the Constitutional Amendment or anything else. As a matter of fact, what we did, not to use the round of votes, but to mark one of the three, which box -- which one -- will put a mark on this one. I think the position you're taking here at the point of the secret voting process is wrong, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 63 of the Civil Code, if you want to make a decision on this issue, we'll have a clear conclusion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0127par0172	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Lehte, Manisa MP Free Special.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0128par0174	I'm handing it over to İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0127par0175	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0129par0176	Mr. President, the main point of voting is that after pulling the curtain itself and the conscience of the congressman who entered the cabinets, he is preparing the ground for voting in a way that no one can see, hear, or point out, and this cannot be done in secret voting: I gave my power (A) to his person as minister and as minister, Mr. Minister Ozer Bey can't go and vote there because I have also declared my will to Mr. Minister Ozer Bey. We violate the cover, so the real logic of the secret is that you don't reveal your will to anyone, you don't declare it, you don't announce it, you don't tell them, you leave him alone with God's conscience. But what Mr. Group Vice President is saying here, sir, is that a minister gives power of attorney to another minister, and clearly uses the power of attorney. This is not a matter of secrecy, rather, of game secrecy, which means that the secret is the opposite of the law, which means that no one should hear it, and no one should be shared with anyone. In this sense, secret ballots are a right that is closely linked to the individual. A right that is firmly tied to the person cannot be handed over to anyone else. It's also like a right for one person, so the secret vote is a right that depends on personality, which is a firm right, just as we don't hand over our rights to third parties. It is impossible for a person to pass on to another person a right that is firmly dependent on personality. In this sense, Mr. President's position is in line with the Constitution and all the universal laws of law, all of the legislatures of today's Parliament. Knowing all the rules doesn't mean being a congressman for ten years; he'll be a congressman for ten years, but he doesn't know the rules. (CHP) In that sense, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group is ill-advised. My respects to all of you. The president's attitude is in order. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0130par0181	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Against him, İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0131par0185	Mr. President, I have made a promise against your position. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, the number of meetings and decisions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is clearly arranged in Article 96 of the Constitution. The second joke of Article 96 is that members of the Council of Ministers will authorise a minister to vote in their place during meetings where the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot attend. This is a clear, restrictive, non-judgmental, open substance. So it says here that the minister can use the vote by appointing a deputy minister, regardless of a secret vote, a sign or a clear vote. So, it's a well-known rule of law that if you don't have a ban on something, it's about freedom. As a matter of fact, the forms of voting are held in Article 139 of our Interior Charter, in the form of a marked vote, open vote and secret vote. Now, when one minister appoints a deputy, he accepts this as a sign or an open vote... because the minister of those power of attorney, he does not give me the authority to vote in favor of the matter that has never been seen... or to vote against it... or to vote against it, or to consider the situation and to give you the right to be grateful to him. Therefore, it is against the Civil Code and the Constitution that this should not be accepted in terms of the secret vote. In addition, as an example of the implementation of the method of power of attorney in the secret vote, the secret vote was voted through the same power of attorney in Turkey's Grand National Assembly Tutorate Magazine, July 22, 1995 and Unit 146. Again, for example in the parliamentary election, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was carried out by proxy in the Union of November 19, 2002 and 2 November 2002. If this is examined, it would be clear that the power of attorney is valid in the secret ballots. Mr. President, in accordance with Article 63 of the Civil Code, if you do not wish to change your position on this matter, I ask that the Supreme General Assembly vote be determined by the Parliament's decision, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0132par0194	Thank you, Mr. Kubat. Lehte, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0133par0196	Mr. Binnaz, I'm handing over my right to Earth.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0132par0197	Dear Earth, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0134par0199	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I would like to address your conscience today. Look, when Hrant Dink died, a million people walked behind him, and I was among them, and Turkey suffered severe trauma. On top of that, very recently, the Commission for Research on Impacts decided that the Hrant Dink incident should also be investigated. This is a very important case for Turkey, and there is a name among these three who are now in the chain of events that led to the death of Hrant Dink. And from what I've heard, I'm not going to say the name, I think you know. Now, look, I really think that something like this is unacceptable. If an institution called ombudsmanism is what we're doing here, we're doing it for: someone with a conscience, someone who we can really be sure is going to be independent, neutral, and therefore, when there's any trouble between the citizen and the state, when there's a complaint between the citizen and the state, there's a person who has a conscience, who's going to decide it objectively and impartially. If such a person were to be chosen -- once, once, I regret that you even thought of that name -- I don't think you can tell that to your own consciences, it's one. You can't tell the public or the international public at all. I personally promise to make every effort I can to get the international public to hear this, here, in this House. It's unacceptable, there's no example in the world. So, please and please vote by listening to the voice of your conscience. There's no party discipline here; it's really justice, and it's the conscience of people. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0206	Thank you, Mr. Earth. Congressmans, there is no change in my attitude...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0209	...I insist on my secret vote decision...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0210	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0211	...and that's the end of it. We're taking a vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0213	Mr. President, would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0214	We'll start the vote in Adana Province.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0215	Mr. President, let me say a sentence.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0216	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0217	Look, we've had two secret ballots in the last month and a half. One is our secret vote at the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the October 2013 election of the 2014 local government elections. The ministers voted as acting officials. [[In CHP rows, the voices are wrong.]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0220	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0221	Excuse me, Mr. President. Likewise, during our secret vote during the investigation talks on the Prime Minister, the ministers voted again as acting minister.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0224	Mr. Elitaş, you've made this clear.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0225	Mr. President, right now you are above the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0226	Mr. Elitaş, you just said the same thing.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0227	...over Article 96 of the Constitution and against the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0228	Look, Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0229	In violation of the Constitution...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0230	...the MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0231	Mr. President, you are in violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0232	I do not decide on the Constitution; I, the Constitution, have made no clear on the secret vote...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0233	How can you be clear?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0234	The secret vote didn't clear up the secret vote, nor did the power of attorney.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0236	Then vote by proxy in the election.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0237	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0238	It's against the spirit of a secret vote, please...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0239	Mr. President, the Constitution is 96...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0240	We're taking a vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0241	Mr. President, excuse me for a moment.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0242	Yes, Mr. Elitaş, what else do you have to say?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0243	Mr. President, the Constitution is 96... the Constitution, 96, under what circumstances shall the members of the Council of Ministers vote...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0245	He votes in secret ballots. He doesn't say that, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0246	It's such a big mistake to connect with the elections that, look, the lawmakers... Mr. President, listen to me.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0248	Mr. Elitaş, it does not say that the secret ballots are voted by proxy. Please stop it!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0249	Mr. President, the Civil Code and the Constitution don't say that lawmakers can't vote for each other.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0250	Mr. Elitaş, you said that.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0251	Mr. President, what you're doing is wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0252	He's on the books, sir. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. Read it, please.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0254	Mr. President, you are now replacing the Constitution. Mr. President, you don't talk to the Laws, you don't talk to anyone. Right now, you're doing an unsanctioned wrong course of action with an unknowable authority where you got it from.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0255	I'm getting it from the Constitution, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0256	Mr. President, being acting Speaker doesn't mean doing something against the Constitution and the law.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0258	I don't know what you're trying to do, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0259	Mr. President, according to 63...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0260	Please take your seats, the matter is closed. I don't see what you're trying to do here by objecting to my decision based on the 63rd Amendment.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0261	Mr. President, I insist you put this matter to a vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0262	Please stop, this can't go on, please.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0137par0263	Mr. President, if I may, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0264	I insist you put this matter to a vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0268	We'll start the vote, read it.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0136par0269	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0272	Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is complete. Please remove the ballots. Members of the Board of Accounts, take their seats. I read their names again: Ankara MP Haluk İpek, Burdur MP Hasan Hami Yıldırım, Bursa MP Mustafa Kemal Şerbetcioğlu, Denizli MP Nihat Zeybekci, Samsun MP Cemalettin Simsek. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the bill of the bill has arrived, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Articles 11 of the Law on Public Controllership 6328, 251 members participated in the first vote for public leadership, as follows. It's presented with respect. Haluk İpek Hasan Hami Yıldırım Mustafa Kemal Şerbetçioğlu [[Ankara (Burdur)]] [[Scholarship]] [[Denizli]] [[Samsun]] Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu : 223 Halima Nuray Turcan : 9 Total: 251 votes. Members of parliament, according to this result, the election of a public official was not held by a majority of two-thirds of the votes envisioned in Constitution and Law 6328. So, now, we begin the second round of voting. In this vote, the total number of members will be called two-thirds of the vote, or 367 votes, so that they can be elected chief of staff. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Hand over sealed ballots and envelopes for the second vote to the members of the clerk.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0138par0301	Sir, they're voting before the vote starts.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0302	Nobody's voting, sir. We haven't started yet. Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0138par0304	Look, Mr. Group Vice President has a compass.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0305	Congressmans, I'm detecting a five-man commission with a name drawn up for the count and transcript of the vote. Please don't start voting before you start reading cities. Is Yozgat MP Sadir Durmaz here? No. Is Istanbul MP Harun Karaca here? No. Is Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgel here? No. Is Edirne MP Kemal Millerdereli here? No. Is Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Akyerek here? No. Is Pain Congressman Fatma Salman Kotan here? No. Is Erzurum MP Oktay Ozturk here? No. Tekirdağ MP Faik Öztrak is here? No. Is Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel here? Here. Is the MP for Tripoli Aydın Mustacheoglu here? Here. Is Sivas MP Ali Turan here? Here. Samsun MP Cemal Yilmaz Demir is here? No. Amassian MP Avni Erdemir is here? No. Is Mardin MP Muammar Guler here? Here. Is Gaziantep MP Shamil Tayyar here? No.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0139par0322	On Twitter, sir, in cyberspace! The House is tweeting its work.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0135par0323	Is Mehmet Siam Kesimoglu, a member of the 40s? No. Is Mr. Tolga Çangar here? No. Is Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu here? No. Is Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar here? Here. Yes, the assembly board will proceed after voting. We're starting the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? No. The vote is complete. Please remove the ballots. Members of the Board of Accounts, take their seats. I read the names of our members: Tripoli MP Aydın Mustazlıoğlu, Denizli MP Mehmet Yüksel, Zonguldak MP Özcan Ulupınar, Mardin MP Muammar Güler, Sivas MP Ali Turan. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Congressmans, the bill of the commission has arrived; I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the provisions of Article 11 of the Law on Public Controllership No 6328, 265 members participated in the second vote for public leadership have been shown as follows. It's presented with respect. Mehmet Yüksel Muammar Güler Ali Turan Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu : 231 Halima Nuray Turcan : 18 Members of parliament, according to this result, the election of a public chairwoman has not included a majority of two-thirds of the vote in Constitution and Law 6328. Now, we begin the third vote. In order to be elected chief of staff in this vote, the total number of members will be called the only majority -- 276 votes. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Deliver the sealed ballots and envelopes for the third vote to the members of the clerk. I'm detecting a five-man lineup with a list of names for the count and transcript of the vote. Malatya, Mahmoud Mujahit Nuts? No. Izmir, Hamza Mountain? Here. İstanbul, Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu? No. Ankara, Seyit Hardness? No. Aydın, Osman Aydın? No. Bursa, Necati Özensoy? No. Istanbul, Ismet Flight? Here. İstanbul, Erol Kaya? Here. Erzurum, Mr. Aksak? Here. Ankara, Ahmet Cemalaya? No. Siirt, Gültan Kışanak? No. Izmir, Oğuz Oyan? No. Şanlıurfa, Mahmoud Kazar? Here. Okay, that's five. We'll start the vote in Adana Province. [[The votes have been collected.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? I don't think so. The vote is complete. Put the ballots away. Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I read the names of the members of the third round of the Task Commission: Erzurum MP Muyettin Aksak, İstanbul MP Erol Kaya, İstanbul MP İsmet Ulma, İzmir MP Hamza Dağ, Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Kokar.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0140par0380	No, no, no, no. Don't vote later. Bayram, what are you doing, Bayram? He's voting later. He's counting, he's voting, that's where we saw it. He counted, he voted, he gave me the envelope. Get the envelope out of there, please! Yeah, that's not gonna happen! Get the envelope out of there! It's a shame, they're counting, they're voting! Oh, look! Reza, are you sleeping there, on the Presidential Court? Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0141par0384	Brother Bayram, you always do these things!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0140par0385	Bayram, whenever you're there, there's trouble, there's really trouble. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0141par0386	We got you last time.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0142par0387	Okay... okay...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0140par0388	It's been ten minutes, the vote's over, the boxes are out, it's sorting, it's voting! Shame, shame! There's nothing wrong with that. We're gonna do this right, honest. Is something wrong with you? Oh, for God's sake, we spend our lives looking out for you.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0143par0390	Speak without shouting!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0140par0391	Oh, Bayram, you're doing it wrong. Don't make me use it. Don't make me use it.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0143par0392	Yeah, don't yell, okay, it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0140par0393	Shame on you! What the hell, it's always the same thing!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit03spe0144par0395	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, the report of the Third Commission of Accounts has arrived, and I'm reading it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to Articles 11 and Interim 1 of the Law on Public Controllership 6328, 280 members participated in the third vote for Public Chief Justice, and the distribution of the votes used was shown as follows. It's presented with respect. Muyettin Aksak Erol Kaya İsmet Flying Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu : 253 Halima Nuray Turcan : 15 Members of parliament, according to this result, the election of the head of state has not included a single majority of the required members of the Constitution and Law 6328. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0144par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 29th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue with the election of public chairperson. We will now begin the fourth vote. The second-most-voting candidate in the third vote will be elected to the top of the vote, provided there is a sufficient number of votes in the fourth vote. I read the names of the two candidates who received the most votes in the 3rd vote: Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu, Halime Nuray Turcan. I'd like to ask the clerks to take their seats. Please hand over the sealed ballots and envelopes to the members of the clerk, which will be used in the 4th ballot. Congressmans, I'm starting to identify the five-person delegation with a list of names for the census and transcript of the vote: Is Konya MP Hüseyin Sadaz here? Here. Manisa MP Recai Berber? No. Is Kırşehir MP Muzaffer Aslan here? Yeah. Diyarbakır MP Şerafettin Elçi? No. Diyarbakir MP Friday Inner? Here. Corum MP Murat Yıldırım? No. Hatay MP Mehmet Önturk, is he here? No.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0145par0016	Five volunteers, and we'll take it.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0144par0017	Adıyaman MP Mehmet Metiner? No. Is Minister Ahmet Salih Dal here? Here. There's only one left, so let's hope it comes out of here. Istanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca? Here. Yes, we'll start now in Adana province.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0146par0023	Mr. President, they vote without the names being read, it's against the rules. [[Votings continued.]] Mr. President, no one enters the cabinet, no secret vote, no open vote, no constitutional violation. Look, no one's going into the cabin, our friends are going straight through. [[Votings continued.]] Here, Mr. President, it's clear how irregularly votes have been cast. Names are being read, no MPs. Actually, the names need to be read and voted on. They used it before. It's sloppy.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0029	Are there any members who don't use the game?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0148par0030	There's a friend.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0031	Yes, we're waiting.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0149par0032	He's here, he's here.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0150par0033	No, his name's just been read. Congrats on the only fellow who voted properly.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0034	Are there any members who don't use the game? I don't think so. The vote is complete. Put the ballots away. [[The selection of votes has begun.]] Members of the Board of Accounts, please take your seats. I read the members of the fourth round of the Reduction Commission: Diyarbakır MP İstılı, İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca, Kırşehir MP Muzaffer Aslan, Kilis MP Ahmet Salih Dal Konya MP Hüseyin Sadeş. Where's our other commissioner?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0151par0041	Sir, I don't think they should be able to begin the lineup until they're all in place.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0042	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0152par0043	I mean, they're all from the ruling party, and there's no one controlling them.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0044	Hüseyin Don't worry, please wait.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0153par0045	Mr. President, do it again.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0046	If he's not here, let's do it again, but he's not showing up. Looks like our congressman forgot.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0154par0047	The commission is incomplete, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0155par0048	But you can't!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0049	It's kind of hard...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0155par0050	Sir, this needs to be completed before the names begin to be read.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0051	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0156par0052	He's in the box now. All four are from the ruling party, no opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0053	Well, no, but... he's not coming, guys. Bursa, Hakan Sargeglu? We'll do it forever, according to the number of friends here. Where is Mr. Huseyin Sadaz?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0157par0057	Sir, the procedure is the door to the foundation. If we go the wrong way, the consequences would be wrong, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0058	Diyarbakır, Oya Eronat? I mean, we never would have thought of that.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0158par0060	If he voted in the vote, the Constitutional Court will definitely call off this vote.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0061	Rize, Nusret Bayraktar?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0159par0062	Let's see if there are 550 people there first.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0158par0063	Mr. President, who's missing, who didn't show up for that?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0064	We're looking for him.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0158par0065	You can't just pull it out, sir!
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0066	But didn't our friend know you were a member of the Board of Accounts? Elaziğı MP Shuay alpay?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0160par0068	Mr. President, isn't there anyone here from CHP, MHP? You're always withdrawing from the AK PARTY. Our very enthusiastic friends...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0069	Izmir, Aytun Çıray?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0161par0070	Sir, there's only a list of AKP people, so...
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0071	Please... the job must have its own system, Mr. Lawmakers. Batman, Ziver Özdemir? Our deputies have forgotten their responsibilities. Istanbul, Mohammed Çetin? I mean, that can't happen. He was here, they said here. Mugla, Nurettin Demir? Niğde, Born Dawn?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0162par0078	Mr. Hussein was on the first tour.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0163par0079	You took the name of Mr. Suat, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0080	Where?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0164par0081	Mr. President, you've taken the name of Mr. Suat, here.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0163par0082	You drew the name of Suat Bey, here.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0083	Who?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0164par0084	You shot Suat Bey.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0163par0085	Mr. Suat is here.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0086	Why didn't he say I was here? I didn't film it.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0165par0087	Sir, we're guessing that the Minister has underestimated this mission. Is the Minister underestimating this mission, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0088	Hatay, Mehmet Ali Editoglu? Ankara, Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh? It's something we never thought would happen, Congressmans, it's not going to happen! Paddles, Bahattin Sugar?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0166par0092	I guess it's against the rules after this thing, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0147par0093	So we have a friend who's out of line with the Commission, the Commission... Mughla, Tolga Chandar? We're gonna take names out of here forever, and you're gonna wait. Bursa, Hüseyin Şahin? Here? Then, at last... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0167par0098	Sir, he made his namesake by accident, but I'd like to point out that the first vote was held by Konya MP Huseyin Don't be sorry that he was here, but he voted but left without doing his duty.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0168par0099	What are those people doing here who don't vote?
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0167par0100	We don't vote not to vote for someone who punished Hrant Dink from 301.
tbmm-2012-11-27sit04spe0169par0101	Now, we expect an elected member of the Commission to fulfill that responsibility to the Commission. There's no way we can expect something like this, but anyway, we're moving on now. Here you go, sir. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Congressmans, I have a report from the Commission for Accounting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to the provisions of Articles 11 and Interim 1 of the Law on Public Controllership 6328, 279 members participated in the fourth vote for Public Chief Justice, and the distribution of the votes used was shown below. It's presented with respect. Friday Inside Tülay Kaynarca Muzaffer Aslan Ahmet Salih Dal Hussein Şahin Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu : 258 Halima Nuray Turcan : 14 Members of parliament, according to this conclusion, Mr Mehmet Nihat Omeroglu was elected head of the public by 258 votes, providing the proposed majority of Constitution and Law No. 6328 in the fourth vote. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (November 28th 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the Commissions in order. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
