tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Muğla MP Ali Kurut, who asked about the earthquake that occurred on 10 June 2012 in Fethiye. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I salute you with my deepest love. Today, on June 10, 2012, I requested an off-the-tops talk about the 6-thick earthquake that occurred as a Fethiye district-based. But early in the morning, the news of the eight martyrs from Haqkari (Hakkari) hurt our hearts, and, unfortunately, the sentences were tied up in our throats. In this framework, I pray to our eight martyrs, in the name of the Lord God, for the mercy of the mighty Turkish nation, for the families of our eight martyrs, for the patience and the condolences of God. As our nation gathers on every difficult day, it is able to destroy terror itself with a curse, along with those who support terrorism. Mr. President, as you all know, on June 10th, when I myself was in my own district of Fethiye, we were caught in an earthquake of 6.44. The earthquake was announced by the Kandilli Observatory, 35 kilometers off the coast of the Dead Sea. Thanks to God, we survived the earthquake that struck our countrymen inside the building without any loss of life, destruction, or damage; that is the joy of the earthquake. But after the earthquake, when the fear of a tsunami began to be instilled or rumored in the days following the earthquake, the tsunami didn't occur, but -- you know, the tsunami is happening at sea -- there was a tsunami of fear, and our people had to spend the night on the street when nothing happened. As you all know, Mugla and Fethiye are a region with a very important contribution to tourism. Of course, with the fear of tsunamis and the fear of earthquakes, there were cancellations in domestic tourism reservations, although there were no foreign reservations. But after the earthquake, I saw in my contacts with both the subsidiary and the official organizations that both our government and our government have approached the region sensibly, and our concerned ministers have asked for information about the situation, and many of our deputies have called to make sure that they know that I'm in the area, and we thank them, all of them. As you know, both our county and our country had an important earthquake in 1957, which was completely destroyed and rebuilt. In that sense, we have to continue living with earthquakes, building structures that fit earthquakes. It is a joy that there is no destruction at the end of the conquest, but there has been a need for the creation of a mobile warehouse that would include the attempt of our subsidiary between Kas and Ködıriz. If it were winter day, we might have a problem because we're not ready for the strategy of what we're going to do in the zeroth minute, but at this time, there was a need to build a pocket and develop a structure that could respond to the first three or four hours of need. In this framework, I stop speaking, wishing that God would protect our nation from greater earthquakes, protect our nation from greater disasters, and salute you all, and wish my countrymen well.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0003par0017	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Heromarash MP Durdu Özbolat, who wants to talk about voting for citizens living abroad. Here you go, Mr. Ozbolat.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0004par0022	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise that our citizens living abroad will vote. I salute you all. We are deeply sorry that we have eight more martyrs and 16 wounded soldiers in the Mountainese, which we received in the morning. It is also sad that such an event is happening at such a time these days, when the Kurdish problem is discussed for the solution. My condolences to the families of our martyrs, my condolences to the wounded. I got another call this morning from our Elbistan Watering Company. Elbia Plain is Turkey's fourth largest plain and a watery plain. Unfortunately, due to electricity debts, Akedash has cut power to the irrigation unit there, making our agricultural-related citizens, especially the village of Afshin-Kocova, extremely victimised. This situation needs to be fixed. I'd also like to share with you this ordeal in Urbana, where our 13 citizens died, five of our citizens were wounded, and the news of riots and the capacity of prisons reached greater than 126,000 prisoners and prisoners were no longer capable of doing so. When we saw the 128 courthouses were closed, including Nurhak and Hadjibektaş courthouses, there was also a sadness... Seeing special prosecutors now turn from writers, painters, soldiers, soldiers to businessmen to search for September 12th justice demonstrates how accurate and accurate the process is regarding the removal of special authorities courts. Now the special authorities have turned to the businessmen on the street. On May 9, 2012, a legal arrangement took place regarding the voting of our citizens living abroad. Despite its many shortcomings, considering that we have 5,5 million people living abroad and that our nearly 2,800,000 citizens are voters, it will be revealed how important and necessary this law is. However, it is a great failure to give our citizens only the right to choose, but not the right to be chosen. Dear friends, in the year 95, of all our voters, we were able to vote at 87 thousand, 99, 66 thousand in 2002, 115 in 2002, 228 in 2007, and 129,000 in 2011. It's possible that this number could reach at least 2.5 million, but we need to know that our citizens have no problem just choosing MPs to serve in Turkey's Parliament. So we have -- we have only 550 Parliaments, and we have about 50 million voters -- I believe we should make an adjustment, given that 2,800,000 voters live abroad. Since we often go abroad, I want you to know that our citizens who live abroad suffer greatly in this regard. We also need to open the way for our citizens living in Europe to be elected by at least 25 MPs as European lawmakers. Our European citizens, for one reason or another, are unable to express their own problems in the country they live in and unfortunately enough of our country's troubles. The European legislature of at least 25 people, our embassies and the countries they live in Europe, should be transformed into a state where both Turkey and our citizens who have to live in Europe can work in harmony with the political parties in Europe, where political parties will make a proposal. Our citizens who live abroad, for one reason or another, resist the policies of assimilation in the country they live in, but wherever they are, their hearts are beating in Turkey. I, the Deputy of Kahramanmarash, would like to share with you this: Dear friends, this is a very positive opening up the way for our citizens abroad to vote on May 9th, but we also have to pave the way for our citizens to do politics in Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe this will be resolved as soon as possible, and thank you for giving me such an opportunity, Mr. President. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu who wants to speak about the forests of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0006par0041	Mr. President, I've taken a stand outside the agenda. I salute you all. Today morning, as we all know, eight of our soldiers were killed in the east, and 16 of our soldiers were sadly injured. Fires have fallen on houses, fire has fallen on stoves, the mothers have been burned again, the Turkish nation has been burned. I wish this would be the last event, and I say from here to all MPs of the Justice and Development Party, to Parliament, to our Council of Ministers, to Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan: That's enough! Let's end this terror. Let's put this, right here, this point right here. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Kahramanmarash, a city built on the foothills of Mt. Barn, the Mediterranean Region, covered in forests, but, unfortunately, a huge forest fire broke out on Kazma's slopes, at the foot of Mount Kahramanmarash 48 hours ago. In the first place, the first time the fire started, I was at the scene of the fire. I called our Minister, thank God he paid close attention. The helicopters and planes landed in the fire zone, but unfortunately, we could not put out the fire, and Kahramanmarash could not afford it, and our planes could not afford it. Because, unfortunately, our previously predicted forest routes between our essentials haven't been opened; a second condition, because our forest roads haven't been opened, even though our Kahramanmarash fire department had a great deal of efforts, fire breakers and fire crews couldn't get into the forest. After dark, our planes and helicopter were out of order, night vision. As a result, despite the great efforts of our Forest District Directorate, unfortunately, there was no interference in the fire; those beautiful, facial-expressed pine trees, our forests, our beauty of nature, these beauties in the Kazma region have to be destroyed. We're all burned up, our hearts ache. Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, our heromarash, there's been a really big struggle with this forest fire, but unfortunately, with our Minister coming in, I'm sorry to say -- there was no interference in the fire, the fire went out on its own 24 hours later. Kahramanmarash has many problems, not only with forest fires. Our problems, school problems, education problems, still lack of funds for our university's staff and construction continue. Again, one of the biggest problems of our Kahramanmarash is that we cannot take water to the fields because of the electric debt of the watering forces of Kahramanmarash, a land of agriculture in all our counties. Today, the seeds have been planted, but unfortunately, our farmer is devastated because they can't water his fields. Again, once again, you all know the situation of our rangers, especially those who are struggling against terrorists in our northern region. With him, one of the biggest problems of our Kahramanmarash is that there is still no water in our villages. Today, as of 2012, water does not go to the village of Torlar, and to the village of Torlar, and to the villages in the district. One of the biggest problems of heromarash is our problem with the law of encouragement that will soon come into effect. With the incentives given to Kahramanmarash in 1984, Kahramanmarash would not contribute anything to Kahramanmarash, unfortunately, with these incentives coming up in the coming period, providing a job job for 106 thousand insured individuals today. Because Kahramanmarash has no organised industrial area, and the existing organised industrial region is within the borders of the military. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0007par0053	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Congressmans, we have eight soldiers killed, 16 wounded. There is no word to be said: I pray for God's mercy, and I pray for speedy healing for the wounded. 20 of our friends have asked for a word, but I will only give my word to the members of the group. There's no time limit, sir. Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. We're exploring the condensation of separatist attacks on our national and spiritual values and our security forces to protect them. These treacherous, treacherous attacks have, unfortunately, taken eight lives in Dağlıca, and killed one in Belen. Fire has fallen into the Turkish nation's furnace, not just to the martyr families' furnace. In this regard, the martyrs will not die, nor the country will be divided. We will continue to say, "We will not let our nation fall into the trap of the separatists." I would like to say that the cross-border operations authority that Turkey's Grand National Assembly has received since 2007 and which it has largely issued to the government must also be used with activity and urgency. The plague of our martyrs will be above those who do not exercise that authority. On one condition, Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I would like to submit the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly. As the National Movement Party Group, we are today in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with 51 MPs as representatives of a political struggle with 43 years of honor and dignity as a party. Here today are hundreds of thousands of men of struggle who have waged this glorious fight behind the MPs of the National Movement Party, an idea and understanding of politics, state and nation over the centuries. As a revolutionary and nationalist act, I condemn the understanding of the Muslim Turkish nation, which is contrary to the measure of understanding, understanding, understanding, and understanding of the Islamic Turkish people, who have given life, given blood, worked, sacrificed, flagged the Turkish-Islam case, questioned the faith of our Turkish-Islamics. These adjectives to our people, who were shot and bombed on their way out of the mosque during this struggle, who were subjected to torture and nationalist thinking, are only a means and a stand against the national and spiritual values of our nation. Clearly, these slanders against our faith and beliefs serve a partner. On his wrongful way to the execution, he reads part of the letter he wrote, and the mustafas die, but the idea of nationalism and his struggle does not die. Long live the Turkish nationalism I gave my life for. Victory always belongs to those who believe in the Lord. He has once again revealed to them what abuse those who were prevented from reading the part of it. In the case of Fatiha, it leads us to the right path, the path of those whom you have blessed, the path of those who have not been angered, the path of those who have not gone astray. We will continue to fight against those who have robbed us of the subcontractorship of global projects to change the geography of Islam and its understanding. I refer this mentality, which is unknowing the meaning of the case of Fatiha, to the moral conscience of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which represents the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0009par0067	Thank you. Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. We, the Republican People's Party Group, wish God's mercy to eight of our soldiers who were killed by the terrorist organization while doing their patriotic duty at Hakkari Yüksekova Mountainlıca Police Station. Our families, our nation, and all of us. Let it not be forgotten that this country has lost countless children to protect the unity and integrity of this country. With terror and treacherous ambushes, freedoms and brotherhoods cannot be built on earth, nor can they be built. Therefore, those who support terrorism, those who build a case with terrorism, will eventually lose. We, the Republican People's Party Group, wish our martyrs mercy again, immediate healing for our wounded. We say we're sorry for the heads of our families, our nation, our armed forces.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0011par0073	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0012par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, we lost more than 20 citizens in Hatay, Haqkari, Dağlıca, and yesterday at Şanlıurfa. This pain is for all of us. In this pain, tears have no color, no tongue, no identity. Your brother, who has lived in the law of brotherhood for a thousand years, is the duty and responsibility of the political institution to end the 30-year conflict process, which belongs to this Parliament, which belongs to all of us; it is our duty to put out this fire. Now is not the time for words, but the time for action, the time for results. We've explained in our group meeting today, and I'm renovating from here, and I repeat: the PKK should end its activities at once, after which we've already made this statement from this platform. The government must discuss the most urgent measures that will effectively end the armed conflict and silence the weapon, end the death, first place in this parliament. I call it the first order of business. This should be Turkey's most urgent agenda. If we do not silence these weapons, we will not be able to implement the social contract, the new constitution, the law of brotherhood, the law of equality, the law of justice, with a political democratic process, the social contract of Turkey of the 21st century. The first condition of this is that the deaths, the suffering, stop right now. Whosoever loves God, and has a conscience, must do his utmost to put out this fire. Our people, who have given us this power of power with their votes, say, "That's enough now." Thirty years -- not even the war of the century lasted thirty years -- it's no longer the time to preach about this conflict that has been going on in this country for thirty years. With concrete steps, concrete solutions, the will of the House today represents the Parliament, the voters, the people, the national will -- the opportunity to end this with a political process, a democratic process, a peaceful process. We're calling all parties on this: let's take this to the top of our agenda. In a process free of conflict, unarmed, immortal, we all have our duty to perpetuate the brotherhood with a new constitution, the philosophy of this House under this great establishment. We pray for God's mercy, we ask for healing for the wounded, we ask for patience for the families. We wish your brother would stop killing his brother. And we want this to be the end of no political party, not to be politically compromised, not to use. This call is from the heart, sincere. To all our brothers and sisters, to all the MPs: "Now, come, let us take a step in this House. Let's put out this fire. Like the swallow movement -- which extinguishes Nemrod's fire -- this Parliament can carry even a drop of water in its beak. The sound of the 75 million, if asked, can happen in a week, and we can silence them in a week. We invite everyone to join the brotherhood, invite them to peace, and we all invite them to come to a solution. This call is sincere, sincere. I assume that's what all parties think, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0014par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, dear lawmakers, when Turkey will have peace, peace, and peace, when concrete steps are being taken to end terrorism, unfortunately we face a treacherous incident. The terrorist organization and its supporters, unfortunately, have come up with other events to promote the process. Again, in the same way, on Tuesday, June 19, 2012, at the dawn of this morning, eight of our soldiers were killed and 19 of our soldiers were injured in the conflict. Operations are still under way in the area. According to initial assessments, 10 terrorists have been neutralized. Five of our 19 wounded soldiers have been sent to Van. The treatments of 14 of our soldiers continue. We pray for God's mercy to our martyrs, and to our relatives and to our beloved nation, and to the wounded we pray for immediate healing. The fight against the terrorist organization will continue in the most efficient and decisive way. We hereby curse terror once again, and we want to say that any measures necessary to end terrorism will be taken and that all political elements must be sincere in that sense. This pain is the pain of all of us, the pain of 75 million, and in the name of this nation, and in the name of this nation, we want political parties to come together in a sincere way without politics, and this violence to end. On this occasion, once again, we ask all our martyrs for God's mercy, our nation's salvation.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0015par0089	Thank you. On behalf of non-group lawmakers, Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0016par0092	Mr. President, the news of our young people who died in Haqkari is deeply upsetting to our people. And I wish our people our condolences and patience. It is now inevitable that we, as government and parliament, will do a study that will respond to the wishes of the people, take steps to put an end to the conflict. The death of 15 prisoners between 18 and 34 years of age who have rebelled against the conditions in Urban Prison and the riots in Adana, Osmaniye, Antwerp Prison are a warning to the Ministry and the Government. The killings that turned into a massacre are the mirrors of a dictatorship that can arrest anyone who seeks rights and arrest anyone who wants them and turn the country into a concentration camp. The number of prisoners from 60,000 to 130,000 is the report card of the AKP government. Corrupt order produces crime. The government must answer to the public immediately, not to replace these prisons, which have become a torture house, which have a population of three times its capacity, but to replace those who are allowed to rebel against this cruelty to burn and burn. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0096	Thank you. We're going on the agenda...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0018par0098	Mr. President, we have word demands, short explanations.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0099	Congressmans, I've made a statement from the top, sir. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0019par0100	Why are you cutting the lawmakers off on a day like this?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0018par0101	You shouldn't break that promise on a day like this, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0102	I've made the statement, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0019par0103	Explaining what, Mr. President? At least not on a day like this, for Christ's sake!
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0104	Mr. Oğan, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0020par0105	What if we start ten minutes late?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0019par0106	So, wait a minute, you're seeing too much of the word?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0107	Mr. Oğan, I said I'd give my word to the group's vice presidents and there will be no restrictions. Every group is acting president...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0019par0108	Don't do this on a day like today!
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0109	20 people have entered. What should we do, Mr. Oğan?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0021par0110	Well, if there's 20 of them...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0017par0111	The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In 1937-1938, his name today was Tunceli, and Tedip and Tenkil were applied in Tunceli. We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the 98th, 104th and 105th Articles of the Constitution, in order for this event to be covered up in every way that has been intended so far. On December 25, 1935, the Law on Tunceli, based on the Law on Tunceli (Tunceli), dated May 4, 1937, was carried out by the Council of Ministers, named Tunceli, Tedip and Tenkil. According to the Turkish Language Association dictionary, Tedip: The discipline, correction, discipline, Tenkil: Banishment is defined as an example of punishment, the removal of enemies and harmful people. The region calls what happened a great disaster, but it tells us that tens of thousands of people were slaughtered, thousands of people were exiled, hundreds of villages were burned down. So far, the number of people killed for not opening state archives related to the incident is not clear. However, Necip Fazil Shortfurek wrote that at least 50,000 people have been killed in the movement of Dersim, and that what happened was an unprecedented disaster. In an interview with İhsan Sabri Çağlangil, who organised and witnessed the execution of Syed Reza and his friends, who also served as leaders of the Resistance at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they defected to the places. The army used poison gas. Inside the caves, they were poisoned like rats. They cut those Kurds from seven to seventy. It was a bloody operation. The class case is over. It says so. In the memories of General Mohsin Batur, he can't describe his life as an occasion of shame for the time spent in my class. Although Dersim is known by his people, the smoke screen has not been lifted, the incident has not been publicized, the archives haven't been opened, even though it's been 72 years. Why was Tedip and Tenkile needed? What happened in the years of Tedip and Tenkil? How many people were killed? How much of this is a woman, an old child? Where are the graves of Syed Reza and his seven companions who were executed in Elazığ in November 1937? Who were the people who planned Tedip and Tenki? How many people have been exiled? How many orphaned and orphaned girls were taken by officers to what western provinces? What are the consequences for the country and its interests? Although delayed, the public must know the answers to these questions, especially those of the class. The establishment of a Research Commission within the Turkish Assembly of Turkey, in order to expose the true face of the lesson massacre, to leave a bright world in the future, and not inherit the past as a burden to our children, which cost tens of thousands of people to die. We provide and offer what we need. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Physical, economic, political, etc. The Constitution is 98 to investigate the effects of all kinds of violence on women's health and to take the necessary precautions. Your index is 104 and 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. Violence against women is one of the most serious social problems of our time. The lack of a holistic quality of policies in Turkey has no effective study of preventing violence against women and children due to the fact that social gender policies are not the primary issue of national politics. In addition, the failure to use the state's independent women's movement and civil society organisations' savings and experiences in our country has led to a lack of progress at the point of solving problems. The Prime Minister's Office has issued a series of statements against women and children. But it seems that violence against women and children, which has not been improved in terms of practice, is still on the country's agenda. The phenomenon of violence, which is a social fact, is a problem that needs to be addressed in our country, as in all societies. The violence that we face in many dimensions and different forms of everyday life threatens women, especially their health, or their physical, psychological, etc. Violence is known to cause serious health problems. One of the key factors affecting women's health is undoubtedly the factor of violence. Women and children are the most violent in our country. The most important cause of violence against women is the male dominant ideology in the social structure. The male dominant ideology, as in all areas, breeds and legitimizes political, social and economic violence. Sadly, the news of women who have recently been beaten and killed while pregnant has been reported to the press and public. Such frightening consequences of violence against women make it necessary for immediate and practical measures to be carried out. As violence against women resulted in tragic deaths, other incidents other than death can leave deep, both physically and psychologically, in the next life process. In fact, this has caused her to face serious medical problems in the process. On the other hand, women who are depressed by physical, sexual, economic, and emotional violence think of suicide or are killed under the name of suicide as the only solution not to encounter the same violence again. Women are also known to be subjected to physical violence within and outside the family, as well as to economic violence. Economic violence against a woman is expressed by the fact that she is financially dependent on a man in the house, that she has no control over the use of family income, that if she is working, her money is seized in her own monopoly, while women working outside the house are also known to be severely exposed to economic violence. The economic violence of a woman working in a private area is known as her work in unregistered jobs, her lack of social security, her seasonal and part-time work. Women's unseen labor is also included in free domestic work. In public, the decision-makers, executives, organisers can be expressed as being able to come to positions very few and very difficult. Women who have been financially poorened are not able to deal with economic violence, as they are not aware of their own personal rights and freedoms, and the problems of health as a result of its lack of economic stability. It is clear that her poverty will hinder her and her child's right to education, nutrition, health, and life. Women are deprived of those rights, even though it is one of the most basic human rights. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the reasons for the murder of women in our country, the Constitution of the 98th Civil Charter 104th Charter of the Constitution, in order to determine the issues in which the necessary mechanisms would be established, which would provide for the current legal arrangements and signed international contracts. And 105. We offer and offer the requirements for the opening of Parliamentary Research. Women's murders, often referred to as murders of honor and tradition, have become a common phenomenon in society. In our country, the judiciary does not show adequate sensitivity to women's problems, nor does violence and discrimination against women go away with regulations, and women's killings continue year after year. Today's decisions and policies on women's rights remain on paper, while the fact that patriarchal mentality does not create any discomfort also prevents measures against violence against women. The United Nations Non-Special Non-Specialism Convention, approved by Turkey in 1985, was not a priority, and the agreements signed on this issue were not successful to be considered in domestic law. In our country, one in three women have been exposed to violence, while municipalities have not fulfilled their obligation to build shelters. While most of the regulations made in Turkish Penal Code and other relevant laws remain on paper, these regulations have found no expression because they are seen, known and not implemented. In our country, the mechanisms that create awareness and awareness in women include discrimination and protection of women's rights are insufficient, while they are also highly insensitive to women's appeals to use them. The lack of awareness of law enforcement in the fight against discrimination and violence against women makes the law dysfunctional, if you will. This detection is not just a speculative view. The ECHR has recently made a decision that strengthens this determination, while the country's judiciary has ruled as the first country to be condemned for its lack of protection against discrimination and violence against women in Europe. This decision also showed that women's murders all over the world, violence and discrimination against women, have also reached a critical stage in our country. In our country, the regulations that governments have initiated as a state policy to prevent violence and discrimination against women are also made clear by the murders that they are not capable of changing and preventing this tragic outcome. Without a unified legal system and political will to implement this system, the struggle of female organisations alone will be insufficient to change the current situation. Instead of bringing in mechanisms to prevent violence and discrimination against women, governments contribute to the stalemate by highlighting the tools that strengthen her role in the family. As a matter of fact, most women who have been subjected to violence have applied to relevant authorities, saying that authorities have reminded them of the traditional role in the family and have urged them to drop their complaints. Let's keep these directional suggestions from the officers at the police station, turning them into a method of fighting violence up to some judges, pushing her into the embrace of almost death and violence. The fact that she has strayed from her traditional role is often justified in court, in cases of violence against women. According to the results of the 2008 Women's Status General Directorate, the 40.3 per cent of women living in the city, 46.6 per cent of women living in rural areas, and 41.9 per cent of women in Turkey have been exposed to physical or sexual violence from their spouses or people they were with. Fatma Babatlı, Özlem Şahin, Kadiriye Kayaş, Dilek Saner and hundreds more women were not protected from their official institutions, but were killed by their wives or relatives. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have it read and processed and put to your votes: The following proposals were approved by the General Assembly at Tuesday's meeting of the Council of Counsellors 19/06/2012. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The 279, 274, 275 and 280 rows of legislation, which were published and distributed in 48 hours, were to be adopted into the rankings of 3, 5, 6 and 7 of the order of the other tasks, and the order of the other tasks, as follows, as well as 279, 274, 275 and 280. On Tuesday (June 19, 2012), June 19, 2012, without discussing verbal questions and other audit issues, until the meeting of the agenda's bill and proposals and other jobs from the commissions and the completion of talks on bill number 277 in this merger; Until the meeting of Wednesday (June 20th 2012), until the meeting of the 287th legislature, when the negotiations were completed; Until Thursday, June 21, 2012, when the talks were finalized on the 280-tier bill in the merger; On Friday, June 22, 2012, Friday, June 22, 2012, when the talks of the work to Bill 280 were not completed in the merger Thursday (June 21, 2012). Until the meeting at 00/00 and the completion of the talks between the Law Bills and Proposals and the 280th-line bill, which is part of the Commission's Law, which is part of the Article III-280; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. When daily programs cannot be completed at 00, the daily schedules must be completed; 15:00-20 on Tuesday (June 26, 2012). Between 00 hours, On Wednesday (June 27th and 28th 2012) and Thursday (June 28, 2012), 2400-20. Between 00 hours, Keep up the good work, On Tuesday (June 26, 2012), the meeting of verbal questions and other audit issues is not discussed, while the agenda is discussed by the bill and proposals and other jobs from the commissions. On Wednesday (June 27, 2012), the unspoken questions were not discussed. The draft of 279, 287 and 280 is the 91th Amendment of Bills. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. 279 Sequential Turkey Human Rights Institution Act Bill [[1/589]] 1. Articles 1 to 14 Articles 15 through 24 (Addition 22) 1st, 2nd, 2. Chapter 15 With his third, fourth and fifth jokes Interim 1st article included) 287 Numbered State Secret Law [[1/484]] 1. Articles 1 through 7 7 Articles 8 through 13 (Temporary 1 and 8) 2. Episode 3 The Building of the Collegiate Watch Commission and Changes in Some Laws [[1/584]] 1. Articles 1 through 7 7 Articles 8 through 11 (Default 9th) 2. Chapter one, second, third and fourth eight of the matter. Including the temporary article 1st with jokes) I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey My main law proposal (2/458) has not been discussed and concluded by the Commission since your presidency was transferred to the commission. Under Article 37 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Court, I demand and demand that my law proposal be taken directly into the agenda of the General Assembly. Offered by Hope Oran, İstanbul MP. Mr. Oran, please.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0022par0232	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, we're on the General Assembly today. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a duty, and we, as MPs, have a duty to solve the problems of our people and serve our citizens. Sometimes we have to put daily politics aside and join hands with national issues. Why am I saying this? Just this morning, we received painful news from Hakari, Hatay, and Haqari, from the southeast of Turkey. We have martyrs, dozens of wounded. Look, Sunday last week was Father's Day. In the last year, the children of hundreds of our martyrs have spent this Father's Day without a father. I know exactly what it's like to be a father, and I lost my father 11 years ago. The fire burns where it fell. Tens of thousands of people who are martyrs, for them, when you look, Father's Day is a day of mourning. We have to show them the sense of duty that our martyrs and veterans show. Dear friends, look, we've prepared this proposal with the martyrs and the veterans, talking to them. My friends from my party have offers on the subject. Unfortunately, they haven't been brought up until today. Our goal is to relieve them of their distress, to heal their wounds, to heal their suffering. This offer I've made has been sitting on the dusty shelves of the House, the Commission, for three months since it has been presented to the House. Now, this 17-point bill is in front of you. Look what this offer brings. First of all, the pensions paid to the widows and orphans of our martyrs will be increased. Even if they work at a job, the veterans of Operation Korea and Cyprus Peace will receive a monthly honorary pension. Instead of 1 per cent of the recruitment of public institutions and institutions, 2 per cent will be placed with the relatives of those who have lost their lives or near the disability. In addition to the martyr's or maul's wife or children, his brothers will also be allowed to work in public. So what? The families of the single martyrs will also be eliminated. In the fight against terrorism, the treatments of relatives and disabled brothers will be paid for free, and the compensation paid to privates and privates during the fight against terrorism will go up to 36 months. Again, the relatives of the deceased and the invalids will be given a non-interested mortgage. Moreover, they will receive a dwelling first from TOKI, and the rent allowance will be paid for fifteen years, not ten, and so on, an offer of seventeen articles. Look, my dear friends, it's up to us to destroy the victims of our martyrs and veterans. When the word comes, we all say that Turkey is a powerful country. It is the sacrifice of our tens of thousands of martyrs, our gas, their courage, their love of the land that made this country strong, who gave his life for this country without blinking. Dear friends, let's not play politics or fool each other. People's lives need to be more important than the future of many orphans, painful families, and the rest is the rest. When the Prime Minister announced it on March 20th, and then the forgotten bill, when you compared it to almost the same two. Let's not waste time waiting for that bill, let's take this step together. Look, we have millions of citizens watching us right now. We can pass that law in an hour, even today. I believe you will listen to the voice of those who say, "God bless you." Come on, break a memory, let's all do this together today. Lift up your hands for the sake of yes, and let us all bring up this law, and let us all be ointment for a great wound. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0023par0241	Thank you. Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP on behalf of an MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0024par0244	Mr. President, dear friends, before I begin my words, I salute our martyrs, I ask God's mercy, my condolences to their families and to our nation. Dear friends, I have received a pledge from our Istanbul MP, Mr. Hope Oran, on the law offered by his fellow martyrs and veterans to improve their economic situation. Today Turkey's mothers cry, Turkey cries, people cry for humanity. Unfortunately, the roof of the Grand National Assembly is a desperate audience. We need to get out of this audience. I've been listening to the messages from the members of the group today, and they're sending great messages, but we need to get together and talk. Look, I'm telling you from this seat of the Grand National Assembly that if we 550 MPs, representatives of the people, party presidents, and we don't sit down with all of our group presidents, if we don't sit down and talk it out, if the United Nations or other international organizations come in, they will divide Turkey. Come on, before they interfere, before anyone interferes, we solve our own problem with ourselves. What can't we share, guys? There are 75 million people in Turkey; they are freely fused all over Turkey; they have taken girls, given girls, fused with each other, become martyrs, become veterans, together with their worries, their pride, their precious friends. Party leaders in the Grand National Assembly, or party leaders outside the Grand National Assembly, I apologize, what do they do, brother? I'm curious now, speaking on behalf of the Turkish nation, these presidents are our presidents, why don't they sit down among themselves and talk it out, brother? So every day there will be martyrs, and we will come and mourn here, my dear friends. If we want the integrity of this country from Edirne to Ardahan, our friends who want the integrity of this country are elected by the people of the Grand National Assembly, the people want it, my brother, the people want it! No matter what party we have here, we're not going to discriminate. Sir, 500 trillion dollars is gone, 500 billion dollars is gone, 30,000 people are dead, 30 years is what's happened. Even if one of our people dies, the Grand National Assembly is responsible for him. But we, please, are listening, as if to report the weather, the martyrs are coming, the martyrs are coming, the Grand National Assembly can't make a sound where they sit. So either we force our presidents to sit down, or we use our free will in the Grand National Assembly, lawmakers, let's open an investigation here, let's get a prosecution here, let's have a debate here. Why can't we solve this problem, guys? So we're going to have to let America take over, we're going to have to let another country take over, we're going to have to let international organizations take over, and then when they do, Turkey splits up, dear friends. In order to divide Turkey, to ensure the integrity of Turkey, to raise a little respect for our martyrs and veterans, we must come together in absolute order to raise a little respect for the Turkish nation. Mr. President Kilicdaroglu started this.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0025par0249	The government asked for support in the fight against terrorism, but did it not oppose it? The Grand National Assembly of Turkey in charge?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0024par0250	Yeah, well, you make an appointment now, and the MHP will make an appointment, and Mr. President will come in, and they'll talk, and we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0025par0251	What are we gonna talk about, brother?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0024par0252	Talk about what?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0026par0253	You can figure it out, Mr. Ensar! Untie him, sit down, untie him.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0025par0254	We're all in the fight against terrorism, we're out of the debate.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0026par0255	Sit down, figure it out, sit down, figure it out.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0256	Look, with the struggle...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0025par0257	We won't negotiate.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0028par0258	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0259	People of the MHP, don't interrupt me. Now, people can't hear us.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0029par0260	You don't speak properly, Mr. Ensar.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0261	Now, don't interfere. Look, I'm telling you, in order to ensure the indivisible integrity of this country, I'm telling you, let's get together as representatives of the people who chose us. What else are we talking about?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0029par0263	If the people who chose you gave you that authority, what's stopping you?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0030par0264	The negotiating table in Oslo...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0265	Wait a minute... let's talk about the negotiating table in Oslo. Look, we don't accept him.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0030par0266	You set up the negotiating table in Oslo, Ankara, what difference does it make?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0031par0267	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0268	Dear friends, I have 20 seconds left.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0032par0269	Yeah, sit down. Work it out. Sit down. What are you telling us, brother?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0270	We also do not accept the talks in Oslo. It's the negotiation that divides Turkey, we absolutely reject it, but I'll tell you this...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0033par0271	One of the three sentences is for mothers not to cry.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0027par0272	As the Grand National Assembly, we, with respect to our veterans and martyrs, propose the acceptance of this bill to assess and strengthen their economic situation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0034par0275	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. A list of candidates for Parliamentary Research Commission No. 10/49, 113, 118, 252, 253, 254, 256, 257 and 258, whose memberships have been published by political party groups to determine the measures needed to be taken. Now I'm going to read the list and put it to your votes. Investigating the Increased Violence Events for Health Employees [[10/49, 113, 118, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256, 257, 258]] [[10]] [[4]] [[2]] [[1]] I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The members of the Parliamentary Research Commission are elected on Tuesday (now) at 18 p.m., 19/6/2012. At 00, I would like to request that Parliamentary Research Commissions Number 10 at B-Blok B-Blok 2, which is located on the 4th floor of Bank, meet in the meeting room, where the president, vice president, spokesman and clerk will be elected. The meeting place and time of the commission has also been declared on the plasma screen. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume the talks of Erzincan MP Muharrem Izlam, who is ranked in the 2nd place, as well as of the European Union's Integration Commission and Health, Family, Labour and Social Affairs Commission. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The 120th Amendment, dated 14/06/2012, was adopted into the 91st Article of the Interior Charter, which was considered the basic law. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first chapter covers Articles 1 to 23. Erol Dora, Mardin MP who asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first chapter.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0035par0328	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party on the bill of occupational health and safety number 277. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I wish God's mercy to our young men who lost their lives in Haqkari and Hatay, and my condolences to their families, and an urgent healing to the wounded. Also, I wish God's mercy to those who lost their lives in the riots at Urban Prison, my condolences to their relatives, and immediate healings to wounded prisoners. In our previous conversations, I've repeatedly stated that there are serious difficulties in the justice system. The arrest is an exceptional measure, and the main thing is a mistrial. But we see in our country that arrest is more than just a precaution, it's a preemptive punishment. Even this painting is a clear indication that there is a severe regime of oppression and arrest in Turkey. Due to this perception of mentality, the prisons have three times their capacity, four times their imprisonment and conviction. In prisons where there are no human living conditions, where the dignity of man is overwhelmed, the prisoners have no strength to endure. As it turns out, there's a riot every day in another prison. If he keeps this up, he'll keep coming out. The solution is not to build new prisons, but to fix the crooked justice system and to make the necessary arrangements. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, it is clear that in the final phase of industry all over the world, the three health, security and environments cannot be separated, the importance of the business, which is seen as the source of relationships, must be taken from the planning stage of protective, preventive measures. Therefore, social security is a fundamental right for all members of the community, and it is a constitutional duty for the state to do so. Everyone has the right to social security in Article 60 of the Constitution. The state takes the necessary measures to ensure this security and establish the organisation. The executive ruling, referred to as the form of this security, states that social security is part of public law and that it is the duty of the state to conduct public service. It is clear that job security is a social right beyond just being an individual right. There are many international documents such as the ILO contracts, the European Social Condition, the European Social Security Code and the European Security Convention, the International Convention on Economics, Social and Cultural Rights, the Basic Social Rights Convention. Besides the constitutional obligation, the state must meet the requirements of these contracts and agreements. For example, the establishment of work health and safety rules should be guaranteed in workplaces that employ less than 50 people. Occupational health and occupational safety services must cover all workplaces and all employees, and the sector and institution must apply to all workplaces regardless of the difference. (x) 277 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 120th Unification Charter, dated 14/06/2012. The boards must be made up of trained and authorized individuals and must be organised as democratic structures where the parties are represented equally, not to be transformed into boards with sanctions. The number of workers for the presentation of occupational health and occupational safety services should not be sought, but the practice should cover all work and work life affected by government officials, employees of its own account, agriculture, and the environment. Studies on occupational illness must be developed, structured and popularized in line with the function of occupational disease hospitals. Today, recognition and prevention of occupational diseases are intended to be provided solely by project-based studies. First, the diagnosis of occupational illness must be simplified, and the diagnosis of occupational illness must be made by vocational hospitals, university hospitals, and research hospitals, especially at least one in every province. A lesson must be learned from the example of silicone. The public action plan for preventing occupational illness must be implemented immediately. Occupational accident research must be realistic and reliable. Information on accidents and occupational disorders should be collected in a database and used for measuring and evaluation. Uninsured and unsubstantiated work should be prevented, unregistered economy must be registered. All negative practices on women's labor, seen as cheap labor, and child labor exploitation that has grown to an alarming extent, must be eliminated. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the reason for business accidents is not because there is no separate law. A separate law won't prevent accidents on its own. The main reasons for accidents are lack of organization, occupational safety, culture, the approach of employers to occupational health and safety, lack of control. If unsubsubstantiatedness continues to be adopted as a valid policy of subcontracting, the words regarding occupational health and safety will not be met in life. The bill lists the obligations and penalties of the employer and employee, and otherwise there is no concrete norm on implementation. In fact, these obligations are the obligations that already exist within the general rule of law. In the Labour Law and the Law of Debts, there are these obligations in the Law of Debts, and the flaws of the parties are clear, but the goal that society and social parties expect from the bill is to reveal a structure that makes it possible to meet the dangers of workers at work and minimize the possibility of exposure to them, norms and constant surveillance. The bill also considers the responsibility of engineers in charge of business security, but the rights and powers he has under that responsibility are not regulated. The expected service from engineers in charge of job safety, which is not equipped with parallel rights and authority to the responsibilities taken, will not be possible. ▪ Business physician and occupational safety experts are responsible to the employer they serve because of their neglect to conduct protective and preventive services because of the prevention of risk of occupational health and safety. The arrangement organises that engineers in charge of business safety will be held responsible for the damage caused by business accidents. Without any objective criteria, subjective assessments, it is against the rule of the state of law to be held responsible for the damage of professionals who have no guarantees. The responsibility of state and employers cannot be arranged with this area to be imposed on engineers who have been appointed hired workers. It is not possible to resolve this issue of public order, job safety and labour health unless it is addressed by a public service understanding. First of all, this issue cannot be marketed, even when it is marketed, the borders of lawlessness cannot be expanded and can not be produced for the loss of social labor, the loss of social power, the business and the country's economy. One of the main points is that the draft bill deals with occupational illness in a vague, vague, and extremely inadequate way. Thus, studies related to occupational illness should be developed, and related hospitals should be made available in terms of medical equipment, personnel and physical structure. A democratic law must be passed with the participation of all parties instead of Job Act 4857, which makes it legal to work flexible and illegal to hire workers to other employers, subcontractors, and legalize overtime fees, union rights and powers. Business legislation must be restored to a modern structure whose axis is human. In fact, when the first bill is considered independent of content, the law must be stated that it stands in an important place. In many ways, I feel that the bill will be able to meet the needs of the working world, and I welcome you all back. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0036par0348	Thank you. İzzet Çetin, Ankara MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0037par0351	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I would like to begin with the mercy of God, the condolences of our entire nation, to the sons who were killed in Hakkari Dağlıca. Again, I begin by saying how much it pains our consciences to have 12 prisoners and one convict who have entrusted their lives and lives to the state, and how much it grieves our families to die in the prison of Urbana, and how much it grieves them to ask for God's mercy. My dear friends, when this bill was discussed last Thursday, we had five friends in the AKP ranks, and today I see we have 15 friends.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0038par0353	You've counted less, you've counted less.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0037par0354	I'll say 25. It is a shame that a human law on human health has been introduced as a fundamental law on human life, and that is a disgrace to the Minister and the AKP, because it is a shame that every article of its own is being discussed in two chapters, despite the fact that it is a bill of law that requires taking human life and taking responsibility. In recent and recent statements, Mr. Secretary asks, "Where did you get these numbers during the nine-year period of business accidents when 10,804 workers were killed, 14.665 were disabled and 735,803 were injured, and 735,803 work accidents occurred?," he asks. Mr. Secretary, you've explained these numbers, and in your answers to the written questions asked, these numbers appear to be clear. See, I asked Mr. Secretary a question, and when I asked him as of October 17th what a fatal business accident was, as of October 17, 2002, 872 in 2002, 810 in 2003, 841 in 2004, 841 in 2004 -- in 2007, 1.592 in 2010, and 1.444 in total 10,000 people lost their lives in nine years, he officially gave it to me here on Thursday. My dear friends, this bill is not a bill brought in to prevent 14600 people from becoming inoperable in the same position as a business accident in our country, as an obligation for our country to be at the top of the line in business accidents and in Europe; it is possible to see it as a means of legalising a new commercial gain that it wants to use as a means of using it as a means of legalization. The first chapter, the first part, I don't want to go into their departments and put too much into their details, because the law -- I just said -- despite the fact that it's associated with a human being, it's not only a matter of arguing, taking security measures, deciding if employers are fulfilling their obligations, whether they are doing the public's job, it's a matter of making employees a partner in responsibility. This law may have been a need, perhaps, in accordance with the charter, a mindset that may have made Turkey's most beautiful, most modern charter uncompromising, brought it up as a law, left the fields unregulated, left the fields unregistered in nine years, experienced business accidents with the numbers I just gave them. Today, workers are losing their lives all over Turkey, in mines, in mines, at countertops, in plastic tents, and I wish this bill had a purpose to prevent them. My dear friends, this bill will not be enough to prevent business accidents, to prevent business killings because it is an understanding that invites business accidents, work killings, work killings -- the way they want to live with the National Employment Strategy Document -- to work without guarantees, to work flexiblely, to work from home, to work from home, to lend labor, to hire workers. It's not the right expectation to avoid business accidents, whether they make laws or regulations, but to expect them to improve human health, work environment, because most of business accidents are natural consequences of inadequacies, low wages, lack of education, and indemnity of employees. If 45 per cent of workers work at minimum wage today, if your off-the-book economy is also dependent on minimum wage and is watching 40 per cent of the economy, and your records do not show any unregistered space, you need to double the numbers we just said and put job killings in front of you. My dear friends, there are indeed 21 workers in the AKP's order who have been killed by the explosion in Davutpaşa's workplace. In Tuzla shipyards, only 128 workers lost their lives during the AKP period. There are workers in the AKP's order, in Zonguldak, and in Afshin. In this order, the women who were stored in the van's vault died in floodwaters. In this order, there are 10 workers who have lost their lives and their bodies were not found by the water of the dam that exploded in Adana. There are five workers who have lost their lives in the dam in Erzurum. In this order, there were those who burned to death in the thicket in the black winter in Esenyurt. In the AKP's order, for the sake of illegal labor, there are those who try to feed their bellies on mules, and are slaughtered in Uludere, and those who put their lives into the hands of the people in Urbana have lost their lives in prisons. In this order, there's no labor, no workers, no democracy, no human rights, but there's a lot of talk. Those who have left their work life in this country unsupervised for the past eight or nine years are responsible for the job killings. My dear friends, I, of course, have a lot to say about the first 20 articles. See, we've covered all of it in terms of coverage. They call it. They're not telling the truth. I leave the employees at home aside, even though their employees pay a premium in the short-term insurance arm of between 1 per cent and 6.5 per cent, they are under obligation to report the employer to the Ministry, if the employer does not take the necessary measures -- as they themselves will have to pay for themselves in case they are ill or threatened. I thought of the phrase, but I don't want to say it. Can the boss keep the expert who complains to his boss in the workplace if any expert without job security complains to the Ministry without a government official? We visited some factories in Darica last semester. The guy the boss put in charge of the radiation device in the radiation-leaving enterprises controls the radiation device, so they laugh at such measures. At least make the occupational safety expert a public servant or provide them with a job guarantee given to representatives of Union Law 2821. My dear friends, those who cannot bring this law into the House's agenda for nine years are responsible for these nine years of work killings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This responsibility also belongs to the Minister, who sits in the two-term position of the Ministry, and therefore wishes that the opposition parties pay attention to his proposals, to correct the shortcomings of this law, and I salute all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0039par0369	Thank you. Jamalettin Simsek, Samsun MP, who has asked to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0040par0373	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I offer my condolences to our fallen soldiers at Hakkari Mountainlıca, who have lost their lives, God's mercy, his parents, his relatives, the Turkish nation. But I'd like to say one thing to these careless ones: if they think they can achieve their goals with these attacks, I'd like to say that this is just a raw dream, and that the Turkish nation will never allow it. As the National Movement Party, we will live our thousand-year brotherhood, we are determined to keep it alive, and we will not give up until the end. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment today to express our views on the National Party of Action on the first part of Business Health and Safety Bill 277. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, as you all know, Turkey's National Assembly is the legislature of legislation and argues, debates the legislation that comes before it, legalizes and legalizes it, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws, the law and international agreements that we have signed, in accordance with the international agreements, in the interest of the nation, in the interest of society. Dear lawmakers, for God's sake, are we making our laws in this frame, can we talk enough, can we argue enough? The Turkish Grand National Assembly is constantly losing face in the public's eyes with this way of working, and our citizens remember the Assembly only as the center of attention, with our fights, with our arguments. But first, the House must be spoken of with the laws it will make, the public must be judged by them, but unfortunately, our people are asking us more... when we go to our hometown: what was the debate today, what did you do today? Something happened there again. But they didn't get a lot of interest in what was made or what was made of it, because they understood that these laws, not by the will of the Assembly, were removed by the will of the fingers, but by the will of the fingers, and they also know that the minds of those fingers are in the care of others. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm warning our friends, especially the ruling lawmakers, from here. It is up to you to restore the reputation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I'm afraid the Veteran Assembly doesn't deserve this kind of work. My dear friends, we all see and watch, the law will come today on the agenda of the Commissions and Assembly and so on. You look at it as a day-to-day change. We're asking our groups, rather, what decision has been made at the Council of Ministers? What laws will be on the agenda of Parliament this week? So we think we'll get a chance to work on these laws and get ready to come to our Assembly, but often the answer given to us from the group is, we don't know rightly what law will come today, what things to talk about. It is now clear that the Great National Assembly of Turkey has given its will elsewhere, and we are talking more about the issues that come up here with that will. It's either the influence of the outside forces, or the laws that are being passed by the Prime Minister or by the Prime Minister's will, are being discussed; unfortunately, they are outside the will of the House. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would like to share something with you now on the matter of whether or not we use our will. You know, Mr. Prime Minister joined the international nuclear summit in South Korea on 25 March 2012, then went to Iran on orders from US President Obama, before coming to our country, and delivered six messages to Iran's religious leader, Hamaney. According to a report by Prime Minister Erdogan, a website close to Israeli intelligence, in his statement following his meeting with Iranian officials, the Iranian Parliament's National Security and Foreign Policy Commission Vice President has said in a statement. Unfortunately, Turkish officials are not honest enough because they do not speak their own words. Ankara has become a subsidiary of world imperialism. Erdogan and the decisionmakers in Turkey can't decide for themselves and do what is dictated to them. This is really important for our nearest neighbor to our country to have thoughts about our country. Because in our region, we have become the country in which the leading country and the world is spoken, the resting country. From this point of view here today, we also have a law on business health and safety, which is not clear how it was brought by whom. We're discussing a bill of law to say, "This is how it was brought." We have a separate law in accordance with the ILO norms of the EU. The law, which has been brought up on the agenda to say, unfortunately, does not pave the way for dynamics to prevent the deaths of workers. The use of this right is only possible by providing an environment that will not violate the essence of life rights from other fundamental rights. It is essential that the workplace be cleansed of the effects of bodily integrity and health of the employee who is working on the right to work. The state is in charge of protecting and using this right. In 1950, the International Labour Organization and the World Health Organization described labor health and occupational safety as: ▪ In all professions, it aims to bring workers to the highest level of physical, spiritual, social well-being, to maintain that level, to prevent workers from losing their health due to working conditions, to protect workers from health hazards, to provide for people, and to adapt to each person's own work. It aims not only for workers, but to protect the health and safety of all workers. Dear MPs, it is not possible for us to be on the social side of this law, which does not have a sense of health first, first of all work safety. This bill has nothing to do with making workers' health care, occupational security services a market in accordance with the fabric of the Change in Health Programme, other than providing new opportunities for health capital, enforcing subcontractorship, leaving them at the mercy of the health market. It is the responsibility of power to our 1,600 employees who lose their lives every year in business accidents, to our young silicone and people who have died of occupational illness. According to official statistics, deaths are increasing every year due to business accidents. From this point of view, Turkey is ranked third in the world in mortal business accidents. In particular, 10,723 workers have been killed every year due to business accidents in the past decade, with an average of 1,072 workers each year, and four workers every day in Turkey, unfortunately, are killed by accidents, but no measures are taken. Dear lawmakers, the situation is even worse when it comes to occupational illness. According to Turkey's official statistics, occupational diseases are rare. The rate of business accidents in the world is 44 per cent and the percentage of occupational diseases in Turkey is 56 per cent, while the rate of business accidents in Turkey is 99.3 per cent and the proportion of occupational diseases is 7 per thousand is a clear contradiction. The bill considered occupational illness vague, vague, extremely inadequate. There is no common study of occupational illness in our country, not taken seriously. Our employees don't even know if some diseases are occupational disease. Many accepted occupational diseases in the world are unfortunately not considered by Turkey as a professional disease. While new medical facilities and new health facilities should be established in the fight against occupational diseases, the resources of hospitals in Istanbul and Ankara, which have been available for occupational illness in recent years, have been cut off, professional diagnosis... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and, unfortunately, their powers of doubt have been taken away from them, almost as if not to identify occupational diseases. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I wish you all the best of this law.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0041par0387	Thank you. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP who has asked for a personal word on the episode.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0042par0390	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Turkish nation's esteemed lawmakers, bill of occupational health and safety number 277. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin my words with mercy from Gabriel, his grieving parents, and his Turkish nation, who have been killed in the acts of terror in Hakkari, Hatay, and I wish our wounded immediate healing. I pray to the owners of the wicked understanding and policies that are negotiating with a pack of murderers who have committed acts of terror to divide the Turkish nation and Turkish homeland with a weapon in their hand. I have full faith that the special representatives of Mr. Prime Minister, who compliment each other around a table, will one day answer to the judiciary, and the members of the government, who compliment the Prime Minister on the membership of a terrorist organization that complimented him, will certainly answer to the Turkish nation. On the other hand, the Prime Minister said last Friday that his party did not know the case of Turkish nationalists in the Sakarya Province Congress. Turkish nationalists are people whose hearts are unbeliefed, whose ears are deaf, and who refuse to live without a country; their references are the orders and demands of the Quran, the Hadis and the Turkish nation. It seems that the Prime Minister is confusing us with those who are around him, who are pursuing the Rant he's disbanding, and who defines themselves as nationalists, and who defines themselves as archipelagoists. In fact, I must admit that the Prime Minister is partly right about the prayers we don't know about. Turkish nationalists, for example, don't know how to pray in Afghanistan, Iraq, and other parts of the world for American soldiers to come home safely and in good health. Turkish nationalists do not know how to pray to divide the Turkish nation into 36 ethnic parts. From Edirne to Haqkari, from Artvin to Mughla, from Sinop to Hatay, they pray that all of our people remain united by forming the Turkish nation. When Turkish nationalists enter from Habur, killing our citizens without mention of children, soldiers-ville, young-age, rangers, police, teachers, doctors, and terrorists enter from Habur, the destruction project, called "astrophy," there will be good things, good things will happen, there will be good things, I hope from this painting. They don't know how to pray with phrases like this. They pray only for the unity of the Turkish nation, the indivisible integrity of the Turkish country and the survival and prosperity of the Turkish state. Turkish nationalists know what prayers to pray for and what prayers to pray for. Honourable lawmakers, I'm afraid the bill of occupational health and safety has not been brought to Parliament's agenda until today. In Article 49 of our Constitution, the government has been tasked with raising the life level of employees, improving working life, protecting employees. Despite the mention of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 1976 Economic Social and Cultural Rights Agreement, the bill was only on the agenda of Parliament in June 2012. The AKP, which has established governments for ten years, has been a majority of parliaments, but has not brought this bill up to date. The AKP has set aside its shift as a commission for those wanted with a red bulletin in Oslo, for armed terrorists, for unsolved coup cases, for the Constitutional Court to take the form it wants, for HSYK to be a commission at its disposal. Meanwhile, employees are subject to average 3 deaths and 5 injuries per day, according to the figures. This bill, mentioned by AKP since 2004, has involved 30 people in Zonguldak, 13 in Balıkesir Dursunbey, nine in Elbistan, 10 in Adana Kozan, 4 in Eskişehir, 23 in İstanbul Davutpaşa, 11 workers in İstanbul AVM, serial deaths in Tuzla shipyards, 20 in Ankara OSTIM. These are some of the deaths that have happened to us in the last few years and related to this bill. Count's not over, ball's not over. If you had brought this bill earlier, maybe it wouldn't have been part of the killings. Respected lawmakers, it's not just about raising the level of lives of employees, protecting employees, making laws. Look, the police are still operating against all our laws and international contracts, both on working hours and on working conditions. It works unexplainablely, such as 12/12/24, and overtime fees are due with a funny understanding and number. Although the Prime Minister has promised, he does not meet their demands. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Every day, I remind the government of the promise of solving the problems of security personnel who have buried their colleagues, staff working for this nation, perhaps waiting their turn. I wish the bill well, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0043par0405	Thank you. Haluk Coach, Samsun MP, who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0044par0408	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. First, I ask God's mercy for the sons of our country who were killed in Hakkari. My condolences to our entire nation, especially the relatives. It's always the last time. I don't want to end with a word, a cliché. I would really like to present to you that it would be helpful to discuss this issue on the agendas where the security dimension is not neglected, the fight against terrorism is not put behind us, the exact steps are taken. My dear friends, we're dealing with a bill. It's impossible to make sense of the bill in five minutes, but I can sum it up. The fashion policies of the last 15 years, especially ten years, have taught us that one, nation states must be discussed. In this context, labour is now dependent, and capital is free both nationally and internationally. In this triple assessment, we have to look into it. If you do not approve of these, you are subject to the freedom of capital, the dependency of every aspect of it, and if you do not discuss the concept of the nation state, you are out of line. You cannot interpret the world. You are an internist. You are facing charges. Business and labour health... well-valued lawmakers, we're outnumbered, but my friends who have served in this Parliament since 2002 will remember this: I think of the Business Act we discussed in 2003, the Public Administration Reform Bill. They will remember very well how the concept of labor, the concept of labor, the flexible work, the loaner, the worker, the fason worker, the subcontractor, was placed in our area. Now, we're talking about the health of the concept of work and labor that's already been emptied. My dear friends, we deceive each other. So we have secured the security of the capital, the health of the capital in every way. Now, we're trying to materialize the health of dead jobs, labor, labor concepts here with a bill for show. Unfortunately, my dear friends, in all areas of capital, profit health has been provided with all the legal frameworks. We've lost thousands of workers in the last ten years. Thousands were crippled, injured in business accidents. The political power in this regard, unfortunately, could only be an audience; it did not do the necessary inspections, it could not, it could not, the legal framework could not be created. There are thousands of people out there who want to do the same job for a lower price; if you don't like it, get out of here. The logic is, all of these problems we're facing today. My dear friends, now, there are many dimensions. There's no way to sum this whole thing up in five minutes. But believe me, I won't say it's a fake, but we're dealing with a democracy of illusion. We're fooling each other. And you, as ruling party MPs, may not be aware of it, perhaps you don't. As an opposition MP, I can clearly see this illusion from the back rows of the House. I've been picking up on the opposition part, and I've been saying that out of the heart, out of the heart, out of my own party. What kind of democracy? Advanced democracy, strong democracy, permanent democracy, tough democracy, whatever you say, the concept of democracy that you've brought -- it'll be like a joke for today, but -- first, this concept needs to be democratized. We need to discuss the concept of the democratisation of a large ▪democracy that extends from political parties to other areas. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, various bags of legislation, as I've already said -- have so far left the relevant laws, work and labor health completely out of the question. Here is a concept of workplace security that is suitable for subcontractorship and capitalization. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it's baseless, it's incomplete. All of this will be discussed as much as possible in the motions. But I invite you to be realistic about the bill coming in. We have to do this task of living without fooling each other. I give you all my love.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit01spe0045par0421	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0045par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 277 rows. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi and six MPs have been issued a amendment motion to change the bill's title and to change a statement in the entire text in this direction. The provisions for amendment proposals on the bill and proposals are in Article 87 of the Civil Code. In the first joke of Article 87, the law's bill or proposal, a rejection of a clause, a transfer of all or a clause to the commission, a amendment to a clause, or a supplement or temporary clause, lawmakers may submit the original commission or government amendment motions. In this department, seven motions can be submitted by lawmakers for every clause, including anti-constitutional motions. The provisions are included. As you can see from this arrangement, amendment motions must be submitted on a specific clause in the matter. The motions for changing the header of drafts and proposals have been shown in practice so far, depending on Article 1 of the draft and proposals. As a matter of fact, the two amendment proposals on the first amendment of the bill we discussed include the change of the bill. In addition, a amendment proposal for a change in the entire text, which includes all articles of the law, does not fall in line with Article 87. It was not possible for the motion to be processed when it was considered as part of the provisions and established practices under the amendment clause of the Civil Code. The motion is submitted to the information of the owners and the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0046par0007	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0045par0008	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0046par0009	I want a word about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0045par0010	Sir?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0046par0011	I want a word about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0045par0012	Here you go. Do you want it in favor or against it, Mr. Çelebi?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0046par0014	At your expense, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0047par0015	And Mr. Rusar Demirel...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0045par0016	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0046par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, labor health, occupational safety, has been transformed into integrity. The change in matter is one thing, and much before the content of the substance in a separate title, we are faced with a main headline that predicts a change in the whole, re-recognising the system. Last time, Mr. President, in your presidency, as we discussed this law, perhaps at this time, a man may have lost his life in a business accident, he may have lost his life. First, of course, it's 8 a.m. in the morning, when the ASKI company in Ankara's Metropolitan Municipality gave a sub-employee to a sub-employee, which the subcontractor gave to another subcontractor, and we witnessed by lawmakers in three groups. The hours that start at 00 are until about 11:30 p.m., and we lose another one of the business accidents. It's called an occupational accident, but it's much more than an occupational accident, because we call it work murder because a person is being employed in a country for fifteen hours, and in a country, he's still looking at a shallow view of preventing business accidents, and if no suggestion of opposition is taken into consideration for the solution of this problem, then we should question ourselves once again. Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek is responsible for this exercise, and we need to discuss it. So much of occupational health and occupational safety has brought us to this point, instead of the term "work health," which we used to use as a slogan: "The union of workers will defeat capital." Now the union of employers is defeating capital, and this is the business law. Our future is being blackened in this Bill of Labour Health and Safety. We're warning you now: this law is disabled, this injury has been changed before its name is changed, and when we change the name, there will be no workers here, there will be capital, there will be a labour health and safety law protecting the interests of capital, and we propose that it be changed for this. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0048par0025	Thank you. Now, it's Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir MP who wants to speak against my attitude.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0049par0027	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all, and I ask God's mercy on our martyrs, and patience on all of us. In order to find a solution to this situation, I think that we have to give up the negotiation and fight, and I think that in their conscience, everyone will answer. We have a motion to make about that. We discussed the change of the title and the issues in the text in Article 1. Because the next bill is called occupational health, whereas this is not a matter of occupational health, but of the health of the employee. You know, in industrial society, the concept of the worker was much more advanced, because of the work of the body. Whereas it is the age of technology, the 21st century, and if it is the necessity of the age of workers and civil servants, whether it is the body or the brain power, we prioritize and care about a bill that prioritizes the health of all workers. We have a motion to make in this frame. We'll discuss the details of this in article 1, but I say we're protecting our reservations on the general rule of law, even though we're going to support it. Because the priority is the rights of employees, the protection of employees' health. We're in a process where Ergonomy and business safety and health measures should then be presented as secondary gains. We all remember a painful incident last week during the general talks on Thursday night's legislation, at least they remember what happened here. A worker died during a construction on parliament. So, as the National Movement Party, we're already drafting a parliamentary research motion on this issue, about business accidents in our country and the investigation into business security. When this Parliament comes to the General Assembly of Parliament, our motion to investigate this Parliament, to reiterate our hope that all of you will support it, I would like to say that as the National Movement Party, we will have already made a detailed statement on this issue in Article 1. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0050par0034	Thank you. It's Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli who wants a word in favour of my conviction.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0051par0037	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I, too, beg God's mercy to our martyrs, to his kinsmen, to all our people. Hopefully, Jabibhak will never show us such painful days again, and I hope this kind of incident that hurts our nation deeply won't happen again. Dear friends, I have taken a pledge in favor of the position of the President regarding this dispute. The reason is obvious because the number of motions to be made according to Article 87 of the Civil Code is set. The number of proposals to be made indirectly or directly or embezzled should not increase above the number specified in Article 87 of the Civil Code. The motion has just been made that if it is put into processing, indirectly all the items mentioned in the title need to be changed. However, in Article 87, a very clear decree or proposal of a clause in the draft or proposal of the law may be submitted to the commission, the transfer of all or a clause to the commission, the exchange of a clause, the addition or temporary clause, the MPs, the main commission or the government may submit amendment motions. Seven motions can be submitted by lawmakers in this office for each clause, including the amendment proposals. Therefore, in order for this to be followed, the proposed change in each matter must be given as a separate proposal or motions when the matter is discussed. Thus, this motion, given just now, clearly violates this rule, and the presidency, rightly states that it cannot execute this motion within the framework of Article 87. Otherwise, with methods like this, this rule becomes unequivocal, and in each article, a motion can be made to care about every substance or to care about many articles of the bill or proposal. If it's given like this, it'll really become inextricable and make it impossible to follow the rule here. Therefore, it is not possible for the presidency to accept this motion, which makes the 87th article unequivocal, and that is the correct approach that the presidency has put forward in such a manner. If it is desired, each item can be submitted separately, again, of course, within the framework of the Civil Code provisions. It does not matter what the content of the proposal is, so it is not possible to process such a motion, the position of the presidency is correct. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0052par0044	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0053par0045	Mr. President, I want a word against you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0051par0046	It's over, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0053par0047	He spoke in Polish, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0051par0048	It's over, sir. There's been two arguments.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0054par0049	This is the second time, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0055par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I also feel a great deal of pain and pain because of our soldiers who were killed in Hakkari, and I offer them the grace of God, and my condolences to their families. I'd also like to point out that I share your pain. But unfortunately in Turkey, it does not make the slightest effort to end these painful events in political power, but it does have a policy on them. This day, Bulent Arinc says: "There were many of them, and they came, and they had weapons. " This is not a common statement, and it is a mockery of the nation. This nation needs to share its pain and find a cure for its suffering, while the political power takes its own pleasure. Was Erdogan not going to Germany? He said: "The soldiers have become martyrs. I'm not going for him. Why, then, when there are so many martyrs, when 13 of our citizens are burned alive in Urbana, do they enjoy themselves abroad in America? Then he'll have to cut off his trip and come back. Now, friends, I am amazed at these AKP people. What event is causing your ministers to leave this post? Now, the person sitting in the office of the Justice Department... 13 citizens are on fire. Eight other citizens were burned in a transport the other day. He's enjoying himself, no responsibilities. You have a conscience, a sense of responsibility. Friends, 20 citizens are burning alive in one country, the Minister of Justice is responsible; he's still sitting in his seat. Anyway, I don't have a lot of time... Mr. President, what does it say here in Article 87 of the amendment to a law? If there is no rule contrary to law or order... we don't know if there has ever been such an application or not. How can you correct a law if its title is wrong?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0056par0055	In connection with article 1.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0055par0056	Sir, it's not connected to the substance. Then you wouldn't be able to explain it here if it was related to matter. You're saying if there's any change in the material...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0056par0057	That's what we've done so far.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0055par0058	According to this, I think you'll take this motion into consideration, negotiate, agree or reject if necessary. Otherwise, if you start an application here that an error in the title can't be corrected by the motion, then that's a bad example. What matters here is logic and reason. So, okay, you can't imagine the people who are doing the Civil Code thinking all the way through and through. I mean, the title of a law is that if it doesn't fit the text -- there are some laws that actually might have something to do with it -- I can't think of it right now, but the title can be offered to change, there's no rule against it. Since there's no restraining order, and it's going to have to be a hell of a result, I think your application should be on its way. So they give the motion, there's a debate on the motion, and then it's settled. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, if we don't accept the motion, there will be terrible consequences, or rather, false consequences. If that happens, then we won't be able to change the issues that are very clear and specific. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0057par0063	Thank you. There's been no change in my attitude. On the grounds I explained earlier, it was not possible for the motion to be processed. [[Continue]] There are three motions on article 1: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 277 Sequences of Business Health and Safety Bill (P.S.) shall be changed to ▪ Labour Health and Occupational Safety Act (P.S.) and 1. Instead of the expression "work health and safety," which is included in the article, we offer and propose that the statement be written in terms of occupational health and occupational safety. İbrahim Binci Erol Dora A. Levent Corporate The Leader of the Golden Tan Secret Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main occupational health and safety bill (1/605) is called the working health and safety bill (1/605). We offer and propose that the declaration of occupational health and safety in the matter be changed to working health and occupational safety. Mesut Dedeoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Rusar Demirel Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1 /277 of Business Health and Safety Bill 1. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Dr. From the Heart to the Highest Sulaiman Çelebi Levent Gök Izzet Cetin Musa Pine from Uður Bayraktut The purpose of this Law is to prevent business accidents, ensure occupational health and safety at workplaces, improve and improve existing health and safety conditions, regulate the rights and obligations of employers, employees, and employees for the protection of employees. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0058par0095	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0057par0096	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0059par0097	Musa Pine.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0057par0098	Musa Çam, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0060par0100	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, valuable parliamentarians, I salute you all. First of all, we wish God's mercy and peace to the wounded today, to those who have lost their lives. One of our soldiers lives in the village of Kütahya Gediz Akkaya and in the village of İzmir Buca is in the village of Yeşilağlar. He will be buried tomorrow, and I ask God to grant them mercy. Dear friends, it comes to us as Bill 277 rows of law, the bill of occupational health and safety, but its true name was in 1973, under the Law on Labor Health and Safety. This was a Labour Health and Safety Act, but in 2003, in the first year of AKP's coming to power, the new Labour Law 4857 was lifted, with the Law on Health and Safety of Labor, replaced by Occupational Health and Safety. So it seems that the perspective and logic that the AKP is looking at the worker is clear and clear. Now, with our motion, we're making a brief correction, and Mr. Secretary and the Commission say they disagree. What's he saying? In the bill of law, the purpose of this Law is to arrange the obligations of employers, employees, responsibilities, rights and obligations to ensure occupational health and safety in the workplaces and improve existing health and safety conditions. We bring here, Mr. Secretary, work accidents and bring the protection of workers. You're not against business accidents. You emphasised this on business accidents in your previous talks on the Commission and last Thursday's speech at Parliament. We bring to this paragraph the addition of work accidents. It has no cost, no burden, and it has to be added to this material, but you call it no. And you call it no. And without reading it, you call it no. But in recent years, dear friends, most of the deaths in the mines have been privatized, the attention of subcontractor mines. The sub-employee practices and privatisation in the mines are a fact that death increases. However, the government closes its ears to these objections and approaches the issue through fate and fixation. After the 2010 job killing of 30 miners, Mr. Prime Minister, who visited the area, linked the deaths to the extremism and fate of the mining profession, and said in a way that was hard to believe, friends, the subject of fate began to be abused immediately in certain circles. I didn't tell you to believe in accident and fate. I also know about your affairs and your sexuality. Here's what I'm talking about: this is what's in this profession. The flu blast is happening all over the world. The Prime Minister says it's subcontractors, subcontractors, subcontractors. If you don't have faith in accident or fate, that's another matter. I'm not going to discuss it with you, you go talk to the President of Religious Affairs, don't talk to me. What I'm saying is different. So that's what this is all about, that's what it's meant to be. I mean, the business accidents in Turkey and the deaths in places where there's no job guarantee, Mr. Prime Minister attaches it to a character in this country and ties it to a destiny, my friends. Last Thursday, Mr. Çelebi said while we were talking here, there may be a business accident here as we speak. He said, "There may be an accident here at any time." And our twenty-four-year-old brother Nadir Kekilli, who worked at the office connecting the sewers of the Assembly, died here, right at the bottom of the Assembly. Now, we'd like to add business accidents to both the memory and matter of the rare Kekilli, who died in a business accident, but the Commission and the Minister say no. We don't think that's true, guys. Why not? Why not? The Minister has to come out here and say it. Mr. Dinçer, the Minister of Social Security before the Minister, died well after those who died in the mine. In this regard, I can safely say that they didn't suffer, and that they died physically well from here, and that in that busy speech he called the subcontractor, he does not put dust on the subcontractor system, and he claims that the accidents in the private sector were lower than the public. Again, Mr. Dinçer, there were no burns on the body of our first 19 miners, who were given to families in a hurry without an autopsy from the hospital. Eight of our miners had mild burns, and their identification had problems. The miners were delivered to their families, families at peace. He says we've only been unable to reach two of our miners, and we're trying to reach them. So he can also say that his death in the mines here died extremely well. Mr. Secretary, there's been an occupational accident, an occupational accident, and I can honestly tell you, it makes my heart tremble as a minister responsible for working life. It's such a burden on my shoulders... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that day I want to go under the ground, says our Minister. If you want to go underground, Mr. Secretary, please correct this sentence and accept our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0061par0115	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main occupational health and safety bill (1/605) is called the working health and safety bill (1/605). We offer and propose that the declaration of occupational health and safety in the matter be changed to working health and occupational safety. Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0062par0124	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0061par0125	Rusar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir, is demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0063par0127	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. What are the priorities of the laws on the working life of countries in the developed countries of the world, where advanced democracy is expressed at a high level of human rights? There are laws in those countries where occupational illness, accidents, health priorities are important and put first. And that's why we, on behalf of our group, made a motion like this, as long as we wished that the health of the workers would be a priority, that the work, not a job, but the life of working people would be a priority. Well, we've submitted this motion, and how the government ministers, especially Mr. Minister, oppose it, have difficulty understanding it, because you have signed a statement in the Istanbul Declaration, which you signed in September 2011, including the Seoul Declaration in 2008, which is a priority for business life. You signed under a strong and efficient system to protect employees' health and safety. You have a signature not only on preventing business accidents but also on the creation of a culture that enhances the welfare and well-being of employees. Either you're complicating all your signatures, or... I don't want to say anything else for the interpretation of that. Mr. Secretary, the esteemed Justice and Development Party MPs are a declaration signed by the relevant ministers of our government in 2008. And the Istanbul Declaration -- Mr. Minister -- we're always proud to say that, as a Turk, we all express it, 19. It's a declaration issued in our country as part of the occupational health safety congress. These two declarations are interconnected, not in working life -- as I've just said -- but in working life, not in work, but in the priorities of the health of working people, and in the end, our government sided with the explained materials. International contracts are not only expressed by signing, but by how much they are put into life, how much they are involved in our practice of life, because as they sign these declarations, the working ministers also take the responsibility to keep this matter on the national agenda, and they also prioritize working on providing social sensitivity in our country. Is that on our national agenda? Yes, there is, and there was something that happened when we talked about the law on Thursday, right here on the stand, even now, some of the workers are being killed. So we find it difficult to understand why our motion on this matter was rejected on behalf of the Secretary, the government, and by the members of the Commission. Either you're recognising your signatures or there's got to be some other reason because the most concrete evidence is that there's not much effort to increase the welfare and well-being of the workers in this country is that 71 percent of our employees are unhappy. Where there are those of your employees who say I'm unhappy, it does not suit Turkey of the 21st century, just to reject people who work and to take into account the safety of material assets in the working life. Turkey of the 21st century deserves a law that protects the rights of employees and prioritizes the health of employees. In this frame, I would like to invite you to support our motion again, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0064par0133	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 277 Sequences of Business Health and Safety Bill (P.S.) shall be changed to ▪ Labour Health and Occupational Safety Act (P.S.) and 1. Instead of the expression "work health and safety," which is included in the article, we offer and propose that the statement be written in terms of occupational health and occupational safety. A. Levent Corporate (Istanbul) and friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0065par0141	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0064par0142	Levent Tüzzel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0066par0143	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, yes, I have made a commitment to change the real name of the bill to occupational health and safety. First of all, the government and the capital class in its service will not eliminate its responsibility for the work killings in our country by this law. The fact that one worker lost his life in the sewer work at the Capitol, especially at the time the law began to negotiate, shows this fact. It is clear that the responsibility of capitalists in the event of these murders is to reduce the cost of workers and to ensure the efficiency of production, not to reduce their profits, not to provide the necessary measures and working conditions. The reality of ten thousand deaths in ten years is that the AKP's power and government work for this system. Let us remember the important work killings in our country: the death of 151 workers in the shipyard so far, the explosions in Davutpaşa and Ostim, the mine accidents in Bursa, Balıkesir, the nine workers lying under the ground at Bursa Textil Factory, the five workers who burned to death on a New Year's Eve, the eight workers who died in the flood of Biketelli, the women who died in Adana, Giresun, the ones who died in Erzurum. So what's missing from all this, the absence of the law? What's real is that in this corrupt order, a worker's life is not worth a dime, not a notion of human dignity. Therefore, when these work killings took place, it was fate, it was the nature of their work, and we're sorry, and they died well. They turned a blind eye and knowingly covered the crimes. First of all, it is impossible to bring health and safety to the worker, not to the worker, but to the work of this law, which is first called work and profit, and we need to see that there is no salve to any problems today, no injury. Therefore, when this bill was drafted, workers, workers, and their organisations, occupational organisations did not approve it. So, this idea of politics and governance, especially today's flight security and the life of the traveler, has hijacked the strike rights of those who resisted, and it's not enough, and it's left 305 workers out of work, and I'm talking about the air industry. Now, how can we talk about the health or safety of the airline workers, who are being brutally removed in these conditions? The workers, the workers, do not want to impose a law as a way of speaking, not as a way of pleasing the ILO (ILO) or the EU). We're just talking about the consequences, the deaths, the injuries, the injuries. In fact, we have to talk about a whole process of production and service, the process of working, and we have to organize it, so we have to talk about a whole period of work that goes from working to retirement. Look, valuable lawmakers, those who boast about economic growth, don't they know it's at the expense of dying lives and pooring lives? We need to know that business accidents are in the growing sector and especially in the sectors that the government encourages, that subcontractors, unregistered, non-organised work is in areas that are abandoned to brutal market conditions, and that workers who are willing to work under unemployment conditions face it. Therefore, this logic, which puts responsibility on the employer and not on the worker, has transformed this area into a commercial market. Dear lawmakers, we will not be fooled by this illusion. Our working class and workers will not submit to the desire of the capital for slavery. We will unite our strength for a healthy and secure working life, where the work will take its due, and we will keep our health and our dignity in the fields. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0067par0151	Thank you. The Minister has a brief request for a statement, according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0068par0154	Mr. President, thank you very much. I ask God's mercy to all our martyrs, and I offer my condolences to our nation. Now, the three groups here have made assessments of this bill, which we discussed under the title of the law, the title of occupational health and safety. They suggested that this should be changed into the form of working health and safety, or that the work health of the workers should be treated as ▪ Safety. Now, dear friends, first of all, I want to say that working life should be treated as a whole, all its elements. Now, when you say occupational health and safety, it's a definition that includes the employee and the employee and the workplace, and because it's an international definition, we put that definition at the head of the law, and that's the first.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0069par0158	It's not an international description. No, it's not international, it's wrong.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0068par0159	The second is that when you call it working health, you ignore the employer.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0070par0160	Trader politics!
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0068par0161	You're ignoring the workplace. When you say work health, you ignore officers and other elements. Because of these reasons, the definition of occupational health and safety includes all of this in a business, he comes to you with the bill of employment health and safety. In other words, the Istanbul Declaration is extremely important. The 19th Occupational Health and Safety Congress is a very important convention carried out by Turkey. In referring to the Seoul Congress, there are some things that have been accepted in the Istanbul Declaration, and as ministers, we have signed them. What did we say? We promised to keep occupational health and safety in our country more alive and alive, and we said we'd set up legislation on it. So we immediately, less than a year later, completed our work on this law, brought it to you, so we did what was necessary for the Istanbul Declaration. I'd like to point out that there's no contradiction here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0071par0164	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are four motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 (a) of Business Health and Safety Act 277 be removed from the text of substance and added to the same joke. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Mine Lök White During the execution services for convicted and imprisoned persons, the workhouse is covered by improvement, education, security and occupational activities Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the 2nd Article of Business Health and Safety Act (C) be removed from the Bill text. Mesut Dedeoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Rusar Demirel Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Charter 2/277, which is currently in session. We propose that the second joke of the article (c) and (c) be removed from the text. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart, Süleyman Çelebi Nurettin Demir Dr. Aytun Çıray Uğur Bayraktuttan Levent Gök Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 277 rankings of employment and safety within the scope of the Law Bill. We offer and propose that the second clause of the clause be removed from the text of the substance, along with all of its dams. İbrahim Binci Erol Dora A. Levent Corporate Altan Tan Sırrıyya Leader Sebahat Tuncel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0072par0199	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0071par0200	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0073par0201	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 2 of the Law Bill 277. I salute you all. We're talking about a really important issue, business health and safety that have become a serious problem for Turkey. In fact, this was discussed earlier, although it was supposed to be occupational health and safety, unfortunately it was considered occupational health and safety. There's a difference of approach here. We've often expressed on this bench that, however you look at the matter, whatever mentality you've drawn up, you create policies according to it, or you prepare the majority of the law according to it. So, really, what we can do here, really, is, instead of an arrangement that guarantees the health of workers, safety, right to live, but again, in terms of neoliberal policies, as we've always known, in terms of the European Union's warnings, how can we speed up exploitation in this area a little bit more, instead of the workers' rights and freedom struggle, how can we get more credit on the workers and the workers' efforts, as long as the government doesn't get it, unfortunately, it's not in the hands of workers. Now, we express, for example, that business health is a right for everyone, that it is also a right for not an individual, but a right to social rights, and that it is not appropriate to remove some of the reservations here, especially in all areas of this, no matter where they work, where they work, where they have to have practices that guarantee the health of workers, the safety of the workers. It's a responsibility, so that's what it takes to be a social government. The other thing is, even if you look at it from a capitalist perspective, if you can't make the employee happy, if you can't guarantee his life, if you can't pay for his work, you can't expect anything from production. If you notice or if the government does a survey on this matter, let's set up a research commission, a social rights commission, and let the workers in jobs safety and occupational health care places participate in production, and let them investigate the production of people who lack these rights, who work under more difficult conditions, even if you look at it from a capitalist perspective, it's important, so you can pay your employee, your officer, your employee, first, so you can improve production here. Europe is discussing it. Europe, for example, is now discussing business democracy. It's not just about how to exploit through workers, it's about how to include workers in this process, how to bring the boss and the worker closer, how to make the production process more efficient. We're still talking about deaths here. Now, even as we're talking here, there's a lot of areas -- it could be on site, it could be in Tuzla shipyards, it could be in factories, it could be in textiles -- business accidents may be happening. Now, in this case, let's say we leave some areas out of this, we're making a decision on business health and occupational safety. For example, the issue of women with home axes is a serious problem because more women with home axes work. They also made suggestions to the parliamentary groups, saying: "We don't have any guarantees, we don't have any records, we already have serious problems in the area we live in, we have health problems. There is an institution called Imece working on this matter, and in other areas, there is the Home Axis Workers' Union. According to their statement, dozens of women face serious problems in this area each year, and they can't even make their voice heard. Now, you left that out of the picture. Again, there are people working in small workshops, textile workshops. So let's say they're dealing with problems in many areas within that scope, and you're taking it out of context. That's not the right approach. If we're going to make a law, we're really talking about the health of the workers, and we really want to at least contribute to the laborers' struggle for rights and freedom, then let's make a proper law. Mr. Secretary, we know that the AKP government looks at everything from an economic point of view. Even if you look at this point, it's important. The other thing is, the problem area here, let's say, is that we don't give this business health and job safety to the actual contractors and give it to the contractors, or we open up a new job here, and we give it to the contractors. In fact, we saw in Turkey, especially in Tuzla shipyards, that subcontractorization is a problem in terms of the health of workers, in terms of their efforts. As long as we don't give it to the real contractor, we're gonna have serious problems. And that has to be noted, especially since most subcontractors either employ their relatives or let's say they employ people around them. He agrees with them in part, and he's fine with it, and he's not responsible. How will this be controlled now? I really think it's important to see if there's an attending there tomorrow, and I hope you'll support our motion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0074par0214	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Charter 2/277, which is currently in session. We propose that the second joke of the article (c) and (c) be removed from the text. With all due respect. From the heart (Tekirdağ) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0075par0224	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0074par0225	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0076par0226	Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0074par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0077par0228	Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most important things that makes a country civilized is business security. Unfortunately, Turkey's view of this is embarrassing for our country. Turkey is among the G-20 countries in terms of illegal national product, but is third in the world after Algeria and El Salvador (also known as El Salvador) in terms of business accidents. As a matter of fact, the Ministry of Labor and Social Security has two different written responses to the oral motion, which questioned business accidents in 2011. The total number of people who died in business accidents in 2011 is 587, according to one answer. Dear MPs, people are dying in Turkey. He dies in business accidents, he dies in prison fires. And this morning, God rest his soul, the martyrs die as martyrs. So on the one hand, you're not going to be able to keep the living alive, but on the other hand, you're going to go out and talk about the fetus' right to life, and you're going to be a hypocrite. Now, in the last 24 hours, we've given eight martyrs. These eight martyrs are two times more than the number of security forces that died in 2002. Unfortunately, in 2002, the AKP wasted a great opportunity. In 2002, terror was over as a determinant, the number of security guards we lost was 6, I'm ready to help the Apo state, my nation, my mother was already making statements that she was Turkish. After four years on his back, after sitting at that time and not negotiating with the terrorist organization, he suddenly appeared four years later and announced the Kurdish problem in Diyarbakir. From 2002 to 2004 to 2005, AKP rulings have done nothing economically and socially to end terrorism permanently in the southeast, dear friends. Then, in 2004-2005, the prime minister, who was talking about the Kurdish problem, started talking about the terror problem this morning, and he started saying there was no Kurdish problem. In fact, for the first time, they met with Mr. Leyla Zana. In his statement, Mr. Zana said he did not admit that he had a Kurdish problem. Clearly, there has been a new climate of negotiation with Barzani and the external observers. On the one hand -- as it was -- you're going to send government officials to negotiate, not just to kill people to do their constitutional duties, but to go to the southeast to serve because the Constitution ordered it, you're going to be silent to the death of our young people and do the politics that killed them. Look, Mr. Demirtaş has made a statement today that he says: "Let the PKK stop all political acts." The attack, which will kill eight people on one hand, will cause them to become martyrs, and on the other hand, the instruction that Mr. Demirtaş had given to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). Well, shall I tell you what that means? This is a statement from the PKK to show who is the boss in a victorious military position. We can stop what you can't stop. It's a statement called. I don't know if you're comfortable with this. Dear friends, you've divided society, you thought you'd combine this society you've divided into a commonist understanding, but you're wrong, you've missed the opportunity in 2002. I'm sorry to say that in order to go down in history, your 2023 project has collapsed from now on, it's broken down financially, it's broken down politically. May God give you wisdom, for the right of life means nothing more to you than a piece of propaganda. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0078par0235	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the 2nd Article of Business Health and Safety Act (C) be removed from the Bill text. Rusar Demirel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0079par0244	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0078par0245	Rusar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir, is demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0080par0247	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. With this motion on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, we asked for the release of the joke on home services, which was found in exceptions. I'm here to make the announcements on this matter. In fact, sir, if you open the text that Mr. Minister printed and distributed for the Budget Law Bill on December 14, 2011 -- what he had on page 42 -- there is a statement from Mr. Secretary of the Minister that says that we are aiming for the drafting of the occupational health and safety law, which includes all employees, to be legalized as soon as possible, Mr. Secretary. So if all the employees will be covered, including this sentence, why should the household service workers be excluded? However, in the brochure, which they distribute because of the budget, all employees will be taken into account. They have expressed their statement by saying, "We do not agree at the moment." Also, as the National Movement Party Group, we have a parliamentary motion to investigate these people as part of the domestic work -- the extracurricular work, which is most of them -- in the House. If this motion were to be accepted and brought up and done with a study, they would see that most of the employees in home services are women and many of these women are off-the-book women. There's been reports in the newspapers that 51 women have been killed working housekeeping last year. So, this home service, where women risk their lives, off-the-books, unsecured, and at a very cheap price, is an emphasis on social sexism. So, again, I'd like to read you sentences from a work ministry bookstore: the Ministry of Labor and Social Security aims to support activities aimed at social gender equality. It is our ministry's responsibility to support Turkey's legislation with the laws of gender equality in the working life of the EU. There are articles published by you in the brochures published by your Ministry in the form of social equality acquish. Sir, these pamphlets are being published, no one reads them anyway. If you think you're wrong. As you can see, we're reading them very seriously, drawing them down, and there's a lot of serious emphasis on social gender here. Again, most of the home services staff are a group of women, and these women work unsecured, unsecured. I think it's important that our women who work off the record in this country, especially for their safety, get different guarantees of life, and it's a very important thing to look at some of the plans that are meant to be introduced to fit the EU with their gender goggles. I'd like to ask your high council to reconsider and support this motion after these statements. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0081par0255	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Article 2 (a) of Business Health and Safety Act 277 be removed from the text of substance and added to the same joke. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends During the execution services for convicted and imprisoned persons, the workhouse is covered by improvement, education, security and occupational activities Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving you credit, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0082par0265	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0083par0266	Motive.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0081par0267	I'm reading the reason: Complicated and repeated practices have been resolved with the presence of these employees under the Law, with special arrangements for their work. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Article of Business Health and Safety Act, which is currently in session, shall be added and proposed after the declaration of the First Amendment (m) on the basis of the first article (m). Nurettin Canikli İlknur Salih Husband of the Sea Mehmet Doğan Kubat Osman Caffeci Ercan Candan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following bell to Article 3 of the main occupational health and safety bill (1/605). Reşat True Nevzat Fearless Spiritar Demirel Mesut Dedeoğlu Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Nurse of the workplace, Nurse of Nurseship 6283, a nurse/health officer who has a ministry-sanctioned job nurse's license to perform her nursing job in the field of occupational health and safety under Nurse's Law 6283, Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 3rd edition of the Constitution of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We propose a change of terms (d) and (e.g.) and (e.g. change) in the same manner as (h) in the same way as (h) in the following way, and that (t) be added (i.e. bequest) in the same manner. With all due respect. Uður Bayraktütan İzzet Cetin Sedef Small Suleiman Çelebi Dr. "Glory to the Heart, Levent Sky" The employee: the real person who is employed or employed in public or private businesses regardless of the status of his own private laws, the person who produces property or service to his own account, education institution: Offices, occupational safety expertise and other health care staff other than occupational and occupational physicians have been authorized by the Ministry to provide training by institutions and organisations and universities and occupational institutions for this work. The occupational physician: a doctor of occupational medicine, authorized by the occupational institution to serve in the field of occupational health and safety, and registered by the Ministry, has a certificate of occupational medicine. The joint health and security unit: the unit established jointly by public institutions and employers who have 50 and fewer employees, have the necessary equipment and personnel to provide occupational health care services to their workplaces, and are authorized by the Ministry. Technical employee: Technical teacher, physicist and chemists and graduates of business health and safety programme with the University Department of Labor Economics and Industrial Relations It is a professional institution: The members of the public institution are obliged to be members of the work laid out in this law. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0084par0308	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0081par0309	Sedef Küçük, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0085par0311	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of Law Bill 277. I salute your high council. I wish God's mercy to the martyrs who lost their lives tonight in a foul attack in the morning, my condolences to their relatives, and an urgent cure to our wounded soldiers. I strongly condemn this outrageous attack on our entire country. In addition, last week, our citizens, who were in charge of the state, whether they were prisoners or prisoners, who were entrusted with state protection, were burned to death. In this case, I ask God's mercy and patience for our fellow citizens who have lost their lives. All aspects of the incident and those responsible for these murders must be revealed immediately. You know, during the negotiations of this law, we lost a worker in the accident at the construction of a new service building. This suggests that our country has many ways to go in terms of business safety. And I ask God's mercy on our lost worker. Dear lawmakers, according to Turkish Statistical Agency data, women's participation in the labour force is 28.8 per cent and unemployment rate is 11.3 per cent. I don't need to tell you that these rates are the worst among OECD countries, EU countries, developed countries, and we all know that. Unfortunately, when it comes to women, human rights, freedom of the press and the rule of law, our country's international report card is always filled with broken notes. It may be those who have taken this situation for granted, but as a republican woman, as an individual, I would like to point out that I'm very upset and not used to it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the beginning of my speech, one of the three women joins the labor force. I'd like to give you an example for comparison with today: 54 percent of the women who could have worked in 1970 were actively involved in working life. I'm not talking about a developed European country, I'm talking about Turkey of the 1970s. These statistics show that our women today have a very serious employment problem. Of course, there are more negative examples than that. For example, in a study of the DPS, 76 percent of the household heads, or men, have expressed that the woman's most important role in the family is domestic work and child care. Sadly, this mentality and understanding are also presented today by the most competent mouths. On the one hand, give birth to three children, five children. On the other hand, the state does not do its part in the opening of a nursery. This is equivalent to saying, "Do not work for women, stay at home, take care of children, serve your spouse. " However, a significant number of women who want to work have to work off the books, around 71 per cent. Women are the ones with jobs when they try to be unionists in any line of work. Women are the first to be laid off during a crisis. Women are the ones who are denied senior public administration. Does it seem reasonable to you that there are only one female governor in 81 provinces, that only 13 percent of senior executives are women? Apparently, women who are victims of gender inequality are also seen as second class in business. Compromising gender equality is an obligation that we take on with our signature international contracts. This will be possible with the full benefit of our girls from education. This will be possible with the breaking of social mentality patterns. However, first of all, it will be possible for women to be given the right to work in return for their basic income. I believe your high council will consider whatever law he argues, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0086par0322	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following bell to Article 3 of the main occupational health and safety bill (1/605). Reşat Right (Tokat) and his friends Nurse of the workplace, Nurse of Nurseship 6283, a nurse/health officer who has a ministry-sanctioned job nurse's license to perform her nursing job in the field of occupational health and safety under Nurse's Law 6283, Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, it's a proper arrangement, but we can't participate because we don't have a majority of commissions. We appreciate it, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0087par0332	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0086par0333	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0088par0334	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0086par0335	I'm reading the reason: As a public health nurse, health care and development concepts are based on primary issues such as health care development, prevention of accidents and occupational diseases, risky individuals and initiatives in working life, risks in working environments and evaluations. In the world and in our country, there are nurses in their workplaces and they serve as basic health workers. The proposal aims to include the definition of a occupational health nurse in the draft text and to implement occupational nursing at all workplaces, particularly day care centres and schools. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Article of Business Health and Safety Act, which is currently in session, shall be added and proposed after the declaration of the First Amendment (m) on the basis of the first article (m). Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? It's a proper arrangement, Mr. President. We don't have majority, we can't participate, but we leave it to appreciation. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0089par0346	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0086par0347	I'm reading the reason: It has been added to the idea that more effective services will be provided in collectively populated businesses. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 4 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/277 rankings currently in session are the fourth of the Business Health and Safety Charter. We propose that the clause 1 (c) be changed and proposed as follows. With all due respect. Dr. From the Heart to the Highest Sulaiman Çelebi Levent Gök Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Uğur Bayraktutan C) The health and safety of occupational workers also assess or make risk assessments with their opinion and participation. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0090par0366	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0086par0367	Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0091par0369	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As I begin to speak, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who were martyrs in Haqkari and Hatay, and my condolences to their grieving families. Albert Camus said, "Look how people die in that country to get to know a country." Based on how people died in this country, Mr. President, Turkey is among the 10 less developed countries that have done one of every two traffic accidents in the world in an unstoppable car accident. It's a country where even prisoners whose guilt has not been proven in state-protected prisons are burned to the ground. A country where their own jets have shot and killed their own citizens because of their national or unofficial intelligence mistakes is being discussed in Turkey and Turkey's Grand National Assembly as well as on the side of the Assembly as the Law on Business Health and Business Safety Act, where all the responsibility of the Assembly is actually owned by Ankara Water Sewers, but the government party has encouraged the subcontracted the subcontracted subcontracted subcontracted by the subcontractors, without job assurances, and hours of fatigue that have been working on the side of the Assembly, and that is where all of the workers who have been under the collapse and die while the bill is being discussed. The night we started discussing the generality of this law on Thursday, we lost Nadir Kekilli, who was a 24-year-old citizen living in Kadirli district, where I served as an honorary deputy in this unfortunate accident, who was looking for the bread of a family who lived there. Mehmet Çekilli, who went into the pit that night with Nadir Kekilli, who was caught in a cave-in and accidentally fell on it, told us that he and Nadir Kekilli had been working with him for almost 36 hours without sleeping. We visited the family in Osmaniye. What the grieving family told us about living conditions and their need for this job, it was a heartbreaking experience for all of you. In Nadir Izmir, Mehmet was a member of the same company. On that day, he was called to Ankara immediately in the morning. Over twenty-four hours of fatigue, one of them traveled from İzmir, one of them from Istanbul, came all the way here, and entered the pit at eight o'clock. At eight o'clock in the next morning, Parliament wanted this to be over, and we are very tired, we are sleepless, we can't do it. Despite what they said, the foreman didn't listen to them, and said, "This will be done by morning." They didn't have helmets on their heads, they were short of lighting, they didn't have walls to be secured, and traffic was supposed to be closed next door, so it wouldn't collapse from the vibrato, the vibrations, but traffic was running. These two friends have gone to the pit of death, and one of them is here, burning our hearts out, all of us, reading grace from behind him, conveying our good wishes to their families. But subcontractorization is the name of working for a lower wage, working for a full meal, ignoring labor rights, running for labor without severance and tipping, not for man, but for slave labor. This system is a killer system that makes working relationships insecure, flexible working hours, rules of law, laws of law. The flexible, unregistered, long, long and subcontractor work, whatever law you're making, does not protect the health and safety of the worker, but protects it, allows the employer to make a little more profit, to exploit the worker a little more. That's what we're dealing with. We wanted to make a very positive contribution to this draft on business safety and labour health, and our contributions remained minimal. Tam, when the law was transferred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey despite our vote, a bag came to all lawmakers in our commission from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. There's a box like this in the bag. It's actually a flash drive, but it's written on the hood -- it's written in English -- it's a healthy, safe workplace; it's a healthy workplace. Attention, this workplace is healthy. There is no warning. But if there really is anything in Turkey about a healthy and safe workplace, you need to put a sign here. I was going to put it here, I suppose, but after Mr. Salim Beslim had attacked here, it's probably not so safe now either. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0092par0381	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 5 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 5 of Business Health and Safety Bill number 1/277. We propose and propose that the clause (b) be changed as an analysis of the risks that are impossible to escape and to keep those who work in risky jobs out of the way or to shorten their working hours. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart Sulayman Çelebi Ali Riza Ozturk Levent Gök Izzet Cetin Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0093par0397	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0092par0398	Ali Riza Ozturk, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0094par0400	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have been promised a motion in Article 5 of the current bill, and I salute you all. My dear friends, today in Turkey, it's not a big deal if we say that what is called a business accident is actually murder, because Turkey has degrees in this regard; it is third place in the world, first place in Europe. In fact, as we all know, there has been a risk that has not been foreseen and therefore has not been able to take any measures to prevent it from happening. However, there is no unpredictable risk in many of the murders committed under the name "work accident" in Turkey. Knowingly, things are happening, people are dying, but as our predecessor, the Minister of Labor, says, well, they're dying. Still today, in Afşin Elbistan, ten men, two of whom are engineers, are in the ground. Two out of 30 workers were actually rescued months later, including two mining engineers, in the accident that took place at Zonguldak on 17 May 2010. My dear friends, workers today, workers are not the cause of the business accident, but the vulnerable side. Today, the employee has been made easily available by paying for the production process. Today, because the employee's value is measured by the price of his labor, the right to live as a human is not considered in this process. In Turkey, production, business interests, individual interests, production has always preceded business safety and labour health. The problem with AKP's power has gotten bigger. In terms of privatisation, subcontractorization, business profits, exports and so on in AKP ruling policies, the manufacturer, the worker, was never included in the background of these elements. The problem has been wrongly discussed since the labor health problem is not considered part of the general health of society, as it is not put at the center of the production process. What really needs to be done today is not to view business accidents as a simple health issue or a technical issue of production. It is necessary to view a work accident as a human problem, a social problem that is heavy. For this reason, occupational hazards and occupational illness should not be viewed as a health problem caused by social isolation and a technical process. Unless human and employee are placed at the center of the production process, the problem is wrongly discussed as long as the labour health issue is not considered part of the general health of society. Therefore, occupational hazards and occupational illness should not be treated as health problems caused by social isolation and a technical process. Dear lawmakers, because we care about labour health and job safety, and because of the fact that accidents in Turkey about labour health and occupational safety, production losses, injuries and work-day losses have reached what can be called a terrible disaster, I made a motion to open a parliamentary study in the 23rd term, but this motion was not accepted. Again, in the 24th term, we submitted this motion. The measures for labour health and job safety in Turkey are now viewed as cost-enhancing factors, and employers are constantly protected, even existing legal legislation is not implemented, and they are not under control. When I went to the Zonguldak Basin for an internship in 1976, my head hit a pressure pipe. I took off the helmet, and I looked at it, and a mining sergeant said to me, "Don't look at your head, see if anything's happened to the sternal pipe, because there's no more value to a person's life than the stern pipe." I salute you all with the hope that we remember the fact that the workers are human.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0095par0410	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are three motions on the 6th article, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that Article 6 of Article 6 of Business Health and Safety Act 277 be removed from the text of substance (e) and replaced as the (i.e.), which should be included in the third joke of the same clause. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Enver Yılmaz Salih Big Fevai Arslan Osman Çakır Ali Şahin Mustafa Hamarat İsmail Aydın Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th Amendment of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. The first joke of the article (a) and (b) the second joke has been changed as follows; we propose and propose that a joke be added after the second joke. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the heart of Solomon Çelebi Salih Firat Levent Sky Uður Bayantan Musa Pine The employer assigns at work (A) class at the workplace, at least (B) class, in the less dangerous classroom, business safety specialist at the workplace (C) and other health staff at workplaces in all dangerous classrooms, according to the size of the business nurse and the workplace. In businesses with less than 50 employees, those who produce goods or services to their own name and account without employing employees with these qualifications can receive all or some of this service from joint health and safety units. In order to meet the obligations imposed on him by the employer's health and safety, the employer meets all necessary needs, such as a place or health department or time for the presentation of tools, equipment, health care services. Those who do not have the obligation to employ the necessary staff due to the lack of staff employed by public institutions and organisations under the Public Contract Act 4/1/2002, receive labour health care directly from the Ministry of Health. In cases where full-time personnel do not need employment, relevant personnel can be employed at part-time. From workplaces, in very dangerous classrooms, businesses with 1,000 employees in 500, 750, and less dangerous classes are required to employ full-time occupational physicians. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 1/605) is the third of the 6th article of the First Amendment of Business Health and Safety Act (1/605). We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the draft text. Mesut Dedeoğlu Rusar Demirel Ali Öz Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0096par0442	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0095par0443	Ali Oz, MP of Mersin, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0097par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I pray for the immediate healing of our martyrs who died today in the foul attacks on Haqkari and Hatay, who have enslaved our entire nation. My condolences to the Turkish nation. One of the main issues that we have discussed in the Employment Health and Safety Bill is that the labour health of this law should be based on the fact that in order to protect and improve the health of the workers, there is important emphasis on the fact that none of the business insurance systems, which will be assigned to the workplace nurse and other staff in the workplace health and safety department, will ensure that their rights, authority and responsibility, especially from the employer, will allow them to act effectively in this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're bringing in the FFF doctor. A doctor friend works at work. As long as the employer is the boss of this, I would like to say that it is not possible for the employer to keep work health ahead of business as long as the employer pays the salary. Again, in certain articles of the law, the employment nurse, which the government and the General Assembly have agreed to, must be strictly employed in order to maintain occupational health and employment at workplaces. When we look at the generality of this law, we regret to see that many of its employers are in favor of the employer, most of its demands are in the form of the law. Therefore, if the main goal is to focus on the work health centre beyond the occupational health centre, although the law is acceptable as it is today, it is imperative to state that it still has many missing places. One of the things that we have specifically stated is that let's make as many good substances as we want, as many good laws as we want, without cutting off business medicine and working nurses from the workplace, as much as we want, and it's not going to save our country from the business accidents and the deaths of occupational diseases that we have for our country. Therefore, those who are responsible for reducing business accidents and providing enlightening information at the point of the workplace's environment and employees' exposure, in order to prevent occupational illness, must be strictly employed at workplaces. It is not possible for a workplace physician to overcome all of these responsibilities during the full - time period. Especially if the workplace physician you work here is sentenced to receive his salary, economically speaking, to an employer, it is obvious that there will be very serious consequences, very positive results. While the commissions were being discussed, we also stressed at the point where the social rights of physicians here, especially at the occupational health centre, which would speed up the spread of the work to the bottom, will provide training. When he came back to the commission, we were concerned that with the withdrawal of some motions as a result of the Treasury's rejection, those who would work here would unfortunately be deprived of this economic arrangement. I hope that the progressive materials will improve the economic and autonomy rights of workplace physicians, especially at the workplace health and safety center, so that the information wave will spread to business centers, businesses, and employers, which are important in all industry and economics, which will begin from here. With that consciousness, I think useful work will be done at the point of preventing business accidents and occupational illness. Therefore, in the workplace, there is also the need to be studied at the workplace nurse's position as a preventive physician, as well as at the business hygienist's point, where it is inadequate, but we care that this law, which we care about, should be good for our country, I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0098par0453	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 6th Amendment of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. The first joke of the article (a) and (b) the second joke has been changed as follows; we propose and propose that a joke be added after the second joke. With all due respect. From the heart (Tekirdağ) and his friends The employer assigns at work (A) class at the workplace, at least (B) class, in the less dangerous classroom, business safety specialist at the workplace (C) and other health workers at workplaces in all dangerous classrooms, according to the size of the workplace nurse and the workplace. In businesses with less than 50 employees, those who produce goods or services to their own name and account without employing employees with these qualifications can receive all or some of this service from joint health and safety units. In order to meet the obligations imposed on him by the employer's health and safety, the employer meets all necessary needs, such as a place or health department or time for the presentation of tools, equipment, health care services. Those who do not have the obligation to employ the necessary staff due to the lack of staff employed by public institutions and organisations under the Public Contract Act 4/1/2002, receive labour health care directly from the Ministry of Health. In cases where full-time personnel do not need employment, relevant personnel can be employed at part-time. From workplaces, in very dangerous classrooms, businesses with 1,000 employees in 500, 750, and less dangerous classes are required to employ full-time occupational physicians. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0099par0467	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0098par0468	Salih Firat, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0100par0470	Mr. President, I have submitted a motion to amend the 6th Amendment of the underlying Bill of Law 277 rows. I have made a promise on behalf of my group on the motion. I salute the High Council. Before I begin my words, I wish God's mercy, condolences and patience to our soldiers who were martyred in Hakkari province today and again, our citizens who were burned alive in the fire in Şanlıurfa Prison on Saturday. Unfortunately, in our country, it has become impossible to take precautions without people losing their lives. Despite the fact that conditions in prisons are not humanly viable and have been reported by NGOs and occupational rooms, no regulation has been made by the Ministry. In relation to this incident, the Minister of Justice has stated that necessary sanctions will be enforced against those who are negligent and flawed and cannot be covered up. Mr. Secretary's calling in. I'll tell him who's in charge of this place: it's you and the government who are in charge of the Ergenekon and NG operations, holding elected staff and anyone who doesn't think like you in prisons, making the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons nearly three times more than your capacity. Despite all warnings from the medical rooms and the bar, your Ministry, which has taken no precautions, is responsible for these deaths. Therefore, the Minister of Justice must resign immediately. Yes, as I've just stated, we don't make legal arrangements, we don't take necessary measures before people lose their lives. This bill only came to light after the deaths of thousands of our workers. But it's still an empty bill. Sadly, as if the losses were not enough, the principle of the march states that another year or two more will pass. So in a year or two, thousands more of our workers will die, and then this bill will be implemented. In addition, the fact that health care is a team service has been seen to be part of the working health care team, along with the workplace physician. Again, since the proposal was a vague statement in Article 6 of the bill and failed to meet the health department at work, the statement was used in our motion for a change. The second joke of the 6th article of the draft bill is open to abuse, since the public institution and its institutions under the Public Contraction Act have stated that they can receive occupational health and safety services directly from the department of health and safety services within the framework of the Law on Public Retribution Number 4734, as well as directly from the return capital institutions. This service will not be provided for the public interest of this service, it will be taken from private health units founded by supporters. For this reason, our amendment has been envisioned that it can be carried out directly by the service of the Ministry of Health in public institutions and institutions with sufficient employees, and by the service of public institutions and institutions without sufficient staff. In addition, the proposed amendment has been determined to employ a workplace physician for a full period of time, depending on the degree of danger. Honourable MPs are feared by the word "worker" in this law. It's a law to protect capital entirely. We should not be afraid of the word "worker." Look, there's an expression, "He who can get hurt, he who can get laid." There's a saying. This has been established in the proverb of our country, but unfortunately, in this law, it is considered to be a life-threatening act. Therefore, employee health must be considered as a priority. Dear lawmakers, this amendment has been offered to ensure that the bill can serve its true purpose in terms of business health and safety. I expect all of you, leaving political concerns aside, to consider that human and human health is the main thing, and to vote on our amendment motion, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0101par0483	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and recommend that Article 6 of Article 6 of Business Health and Safety Act 277 be removed from the text of substance (e) and replaced as the (i.e.), which should be included in the third joke of the same clause. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0102par0492	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0103par0493	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0101par0494	I'm reading the reason: The bill aims to preserve the structure of the joint health and security units set up and maintain the structure under the conditions of free competition. The statement has also been changed in order to resolve the hesitations in the application of the third joke. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion on the 7th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly You're the Law on Occupational Health and Safety, number 1/277. We propose and propose that the clause (b) be removed from the article text and added to the following (4) joke after its third joke. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Levent Gök Musa Pine Izzet Cetin As part of this joke, the provisions of the Public Contraction Act 4734 are carried out in the identification of institutions that provide occupational health and safety services. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0104par0511	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0101par0512	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0105par0513	Mr. Ugur Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0101par0514	Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0106par0516	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion in Article 7 of the Law on Labour Health and Safety Act 277, which is in session. I salute your high council. Before I begin, all the MPs -- all the MPs have voiced up -- senior sergeant Ali Silver, infantry corporal Cahit Kılıç, infantry soldier Hope Bulut, infantry soldier Ali Yasin Erosmanoglu, infantry soldier Mustafa Türkmen, infantry soldier Yaşar Doziş, transporter Samet All of our martyrs who died yesterday morning, I call upon all of our martyrs, and ask for immediate healings to our wounded. I feel the pain of all the families. I've made a promise here to add a fourth joke to the 7th article of the bill, and in this joke, the provisions of Public Disbursement Act 4734 shall be carried out as part of the identification of institutions that provide occupational health and safety services. We demand that the declaration be added to this article. The reason here is that we propose that the agreements between companies and the Ministry should be determined within the framework of the provisions and criteria of the Public Contracts Act and criteria, in order to establish objective criteria for the detection of companies or companies that will provide support services for businesses with fewer than 10 employees. Now, the goal of doing this is to make this offer, especially -- my fellow lawmakers have just mentioned -- that in the last decade of business accidents in your administration, we find that 11 thousand people have lost their lives in fatal business accidents. That's 1,100 deaths per year on average. If we divide it by the day, we sacrifice almost four people every day in business accidents in this country, my dear friends. In 2003, we face the number 1,452 -- unfortunately, this number has increased by almost 100 percent -- the number 2.086 -- when we compare the leftovers as a result of business accidents. In 2003, 860 workers were lost in business accidents, while today, in 2011, 1,563 people face an increase of nearly 100 per cent. When we compare them with European countries, my dear friends, Germany, of 83 million inhabitants, lost 519 in 2010 as a result of a fatal business accident. Can you imagine? In Germany, of 83 million inhabitants, only 519 people were killed in 2010 by a work accident. In Britain, which has a population of 64 million people, 489 people die in business accidents. The number of deaths in 2010 was 106, as a result of a business accident in the Netherlands, which also has a population of 17 million. This is an interesting example of how much trouble we face in terms of business safety, which is that we are unfortunately the first in Europe, and otherwise we are the third in the world. These work accidents are busier: we encounter them in shipyards, mines, construction industry, and construction businesses, particularly hydropower plants. Hence, the main reason for these business accidents is the increase in business accidents, the first is lack of rules, the second is insecurity, and the third is recklessness, and most importantly, reckless work. Of course, one of the main arguments here is subcontractorization. The subcontractors see the way to profit in reducing labor-force costs, and therefore some ways to reduce labor-force costs are justified and they act accordingly. What are these roads? These are the findings of the study and research of the Republic's People's Party in particular: one of which is long hours of work, my dear friends. Due to the long hours of work... my dear congressman, my Manisa MP, Free Private... is right about the latest death here, as well as the fact that he was able to determine the death in Parliament, which is due to long hours. The other incident is the low-payment rate, despite long hours. The subcontractors unfortunately try these methods of work, and because of these methods of work, they invite business accidents immediately, or rather. We demand a legal arrangement in our country to predict a zero-job accident, a necessary infrastructure. Hopefully we'll reduce business accidents to minimum in the coming period, that's our wish and demand. So I repeat our motion to add the fourth joke to the 7th article, which I have just expressed in my statement. I look forward to your support in this matter, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0107par0526	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0108par0529	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit02spe0107par0530	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kusoğlu, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Trust, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Akar, Mr. Land, Mr. Onur, Mr. Soydan, Mr. Tunay, Mr. Coach, Mr. Acar and Mr. Öz. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0107par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The 7th article did not have enough attendance in the roll call before Artvin MP Uğur Bayraktutan and his friends voted on the motion. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We will continue negotiations with Bill 277 rows. The commission and the government are in place. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 8: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Common Business Health and Safety Act shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Koca İlknur Denizli Sevim Savarer Türkan Dağoğlu The certificate of authority of the occupational physician or occupational safety expert, who has been neglected in the event of an occupational accident or occupational illness, resulting in the death or disability of an employee, is suspended. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 277-square Work Health and Safety Charter of the United States. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. (2) Occupational physicians and occupational safety professionals report to the employer and employer's deputy the measures they need to be taken for occupational health and safety at their workplaces in written terms with the regulations of procedures and procedures; it is recommended that the job be stopped by the employer or the employer's or employer's deputy. The employer or his deputy is responsible for all the damage that could be done because of the job's stopping and its failure to repair improprieties. Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzzel Sebahat Tuncel Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Job Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277, is now in session. We propose the addition of the accompanying joke, following the first joke of the article, to make additional changes in the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth jokes. With all due respect. Dr. From the Heart to the Highest Sulaiman Çelebi Levent Gök İzzet Cetin Bkent Kuşoğlu Uğur Bayraktutan In the dismissal of the occupational physician and occupational safety expert by the employer, the reason for the discharge of the letter is reported to the relevant professional organisation within three days. If the termination of the employer is justified by the occupational organisation, the contract of employment will be terminated. The six-month gross fee is paid as compensation by the employer, as well as by the other rights he has with the invalid and unfair dissolution results of the employee's discharge of the contract before this requirement is met. This compensation will not be subject to any interruption except the Mark Tax. In the workplace where there was an accident at work or death due to occupational illness, the occupational physician or occupational safety expert who had been found to have a major defect is suspended unless the warrant is issued by a court order otherwise. At workplaces (A) where business safety specialists are in very dangerous classrooms to take office, they are required to have at least (B) classrooms in dangerous classrooms, at least (C) workplaces in less dangerous classrooms, and at least (C) class business safety expertise. In businesses with 50 and more employees, the employer is obliged to establish a business health and safety unit. In addition to their original duties, they can be assigned to the institution or other public institutions where they work, according to the regulations of the public institution and institutions concerned, as well as to be a business physician or occupational safety expert, provided they have the necessary documents and have the right to assign them. For each hour (300) the number of indicators is done by the agency, which provides additional payment for the amount of the officer's monthly coefficient and multiplication of the number of employees assigned in this way. Without this payment, no cuts will be made except for the stamp tax. In this situation, it is in accordance with the limits of the Employment Law in terms of the extra work the staff will do. According to Article 5 of the Law on Turkish Medicines No. 6023, the approval of occupational physicians to be assigned to office health and safety units and joint health and safety units must be received. According to the Law, the work done by occupational physicians and other health staff in public institutions and institutions is outside the rules of the full-time work of health personnel. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0109par0051	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0107par0052	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0110par0054	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 8 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety. My respects to all of you. Like today, we live in a country where terrorism is almost every day, where traffic accidents are very high, and business accidents are an average of 60-70,000 a year, and we are finally meeting with an Employment and Safety Act. Hopefully, after this bill goes into effect, there will be a reduction in the importance of business accidents, but I just don't think it can be avoided by the law, and I don't think anyone's thinking about it; there needs to be a consciousness about it, education needs to be built more intensively, needs to be done. Regarding this issue, criticism from the European Commission on the issue of the 2011 Progress Report, mentioned in Turkey progress reports year after year, in the 19th chapter, in the 19th chapter, in the title "Social Policy and Employment" -- which holds the most bumpy chapter -- will weaken, hopefully from now on, so there won't be a lot of criticism about this part. But I hope this doesn't end in a failure, as it did when we turned the collective agreement we discussed earlier, because it's a very important issue. It has to take its rightful place, make the right impression in society, in business. Our proposal for Article 8 of Article 8 is: Article 8 is very important, with the title of occupational physicians and occupational safety experts. We propose an addition to the 1st joke, which is important: the reason for the dismissal of the occupational physician and occupational safety expert by the employer is reported to the occupational institution within three days. If the termination of the employer is justified by the occupational organisation, the contract of employment will be terminated. The six-month gross fee is paid as compensation by the employer, as well as by the other rights he has with the invalid and unfair dissolution results of the employee's discharge of the contract before this requirement is met. This compensation will not be subject to any cuts except the Mark Tax. There is an important reason for this, because it is also mentioned in ILO (ILO) Convention 161 and Advice Decision 112. The independence of occupational health and safety workers, occupational physicians and business experts is a very fundamental criteria, a very important issue. In order to ensure their independence on this issue, they must not be influenced by the employer, the payer. Without it, the system can't achieve its goal. I'd like to stress that in particular. We're also making a change in the fourth joke: the suspension of the occupational physician or occupational safety expert unless the warrant is passed by a court order otherwise. We think that's important too. We specifically request that the declaration of our proposal be removed from the text due to the vagueness of the law, which should be carried out by the 5th ▪. It's a matter of law -- it's important, Minister, and I'd like to get your attention -- and it's a vague statement. Again, we propose that those who serve as institutional medical examiners at the public institution should also be accompanied by personnel, such as the appointment at another institution to carry the responsibility of occupational medicine. Again, we propose an increase of the overtime fee scheduled for 80 hours in the bill in three hundred hours. That's a big deal. My dear friends, this 8th article is important, and our proposal is very important. I'd like you to consider it specifically. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0111par0066	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 277-square Work Health and Safety Charter of the United States. Article 2. We offer and propose that his joke be changed in the following way. 2) Occupational physicians and occupational safety professionals report to the employer and employer's deputy the measures they need to be taken for occupational health and safety at their workplaces in writing with regulations on procedure and procedures; it is recommended that the job be terminated by the employer or the employer's or employer's deputy who poses life-threatening risks. The employer or his deputy is responsible for all the damage that could be done because of the job's stopping and its failure to repair improprieties. Hasip Kaplan and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0112par0076	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0111par0077	Sebahat Tuncel, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0113par0078	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we have made. I salute you all. We're actually discussing an important bill today. In particular, workers, working NGOs want this bill to be legalized, and we especially care that there is a law on the health and safety of workers, but in doing so, we feel that the opposition's opinions and proposals should be taken into consideration. I, of course, have been in this Parliament for a long time, for two semesters, and I have never seen the opposition's views taken into consideration one day. Usually the commission doesn't agree, and the ministry can't, for some reason. The commissions don't usually talk about it. That's why it's all about power. After all, we can do good things together here, no matter which party does it. That's what this motion is about, because this 8th article is important. In the matter of occupational health and occupational safety, this bill is mostly based on the employer's ability to do work health, job safety, more through employers, but since there's not enough control, the law has been passed on this issue, but we can't prevent the deaths of workers, we can't prevent business accidents. In that sense, the state should be responsible in the first degree. Our motion is a little bit more responsible for the state. We just mentioned that subcontractorization is a very serious problem. Many businesses, described as dangerous jobs, employ subcontractors, and this has no control, the state does not seriously supervise; this is a serious problem. Last semester, for example, there was a research commission here on the deaths of workers at Tuzla shipyards. I was part of that research commission. We went, we did research, we identified the situation there, but at the same time, they were building shipyards in Yalova. The solutions to the problems at the Tuzla shipyard were not applied in Yalova, unfortunately, because construction had begun in Yalova, where we had to protect the bosses! So nothing happened through the workers, and there's still a problem with business accidents. That's problem number one. So we have to take measures to ensure that there will be no more labour accidents, no more business accidents, no more healthy conditions. From that point of view, it's not important to take precautions after accidents, cry over them, say anything. Every member of parliament who came to this stand stated that a worker died right next to us as this law was being spoken. So, in order for that not to happen, we have to take precautions first. For this, it is important to provide healthy work conditions. One of the things that needs to be done is freedom to organize, dear friends, something that is not in Turkey. The last thing we saw was Turkish Airlines workers, who don't have the freedom to organize, not even the right to strike. Do you go on strike, or do you object, then we'll fire you. You're threatened. In other line of work, too. Again, there are two areas in unionization: on the one hand, a state-owned union; on the other hand, in a more democratic area, there is a policy that prevents trade union struggle, and there is a policy that prevents union struggle. I'd like to draw attention to this freedom of organization once again. Why? Because as long as the workers are conscious, they will seek their rights. If this is not implemented in this regard, for example, if necessary measures are not taken for business health, it will object, start legal proceedings. Now, the worker who doesn't know that sees it as at the mercy of the boss. In that sense, there's something about the union struggle, about raising awareness of workers, developing a common struggle. And because they didn't happen, labor deaths, business accidents, are much more likely to happen. Another thing: really, let's say that preventing these accidents is our main responsibility. If we really want a democratic Turkey, and we want to reach the world's 16th largest economy -- we now call it 17th -- as we brag about it -- then it will be possible, first, to improve the living conditions of those who built this economy, to ensure the right to live. Otherwise, we'll just have to pass these laws within the norms of integration into the European Union. Once again, we want to emphasize that the ILO contract, not because the European Union wants it, but because we need it, because we want our workers to work in a safer environment, because we care about their right to live, otherwise it really doesn't mean anything to us. Once again, I would like to say that I hope that we will never have to face any more work accidents, any more workers' deaths. We're hoping you'll support our offer. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0114par0088	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 8 of Article 8 of the Common Business Health and Safety Act shall be changed in the following way. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends The certificate of authority of the occupational physician or occupational safety expert, who has been neglected in the event of an occupational accident or occupational illness, resulting in the death or disability of an employee, is suspended. Does the commission agree with the motion? Sir, we're putting it to proper consideration, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0115par0098	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0116par0099	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0114par0100	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to expand its obligation to ensure occupational health and safety at workplaces, as a result of the services provided by occupational physicians and occupational safety professionals in the field of occupational health and safety, as well as the current provision of the employer's responsibility for the expertise of these professionals. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion on Article 9 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Job Health and Safety Bill 9th, number 1/277 in the currently held row. We propose and propose that the following sentences be added in order to the first and second joke of the article. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine The appeals to the assessment of the danger class of workplaces are made to business courts. In addition to the actual work done at work, if an independent unit is engaged in a more dangerous class in units or workshops, then that workshop is based on the danger class for the unit or the unit. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0117par0120	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0114par0121	Haluk Koç, Samsun MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0118par0123	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion in Article 9 of the proposed bill. I salute you with respect. I made some statements during my personal say-so. More than the content of this motion, I'd like to think about some concepts. My dear friends, we have to discuss it very clearly now, and it's this device we call the state, which unfortunately, in the last ten years of globalization, is trying to complete its final transformations in accordance with the demands of capital. The concepts that are relevant to this law are changes that will contribute to this transformation. I've said a lot of laws, the Business Law, the Public Administration Reform Bill, the bag of laws that are supposed to care about this capital, which are supposed to protect it, but who ignore the most fundamental elements of democracy, along with labor health and security services, have always tried to reduce the burden of capital by resolving business as unnecessary waste of employment and employment physicians. Business health care and occupational physicians and occupational safety training were left to subcontractors with a free market understanding. The market conditions have been matured, and now they want the final signature. None of the major views of any of the professional mass organizations here, unfortunately, were taken. My dear friends, now we're going through a time when democracy is being questioned. I've just told you, today you describe the future as democracy, and in some European countries it's described as a powerful democracy, but when we look at it, people begin to question parliamentary democracy, representative democracy. How do they question him? They see that the wills they make to run with their votes do not work in their own interest, so they see that the international financial centers, the CEOs of powerful companies, the executives of their governments, they see that they are in the one-on-one run within the ruling structures of their governments, and they see that the social gains, the rights they've created over the years, are slowly being taken away from the powers they've brought in their own hands, their own votes. Notice that all elections in Europe -- including the second round of parliamentary elections in France -- appear to be about 50 per cent of the turnouts, and people vote for extreme parties, racist parties, exclusion parties -- because the majority system in France is the majority system. My dear friends, the question has always been asked: "To make democracy strong, we need to stretch the state device, loosen it. The institutions we describe as governments must be weakened so that the democracy we describe can be strengthened. After all we've been through, people are starting to lose faith in this system. We'll have the same arguments. People voted for you, voted for you for three semesters, but with their votes, they began to see their social rights slowly slipping away. What needs to be done here... is that the wills they've created in parliament -- I've just stressed -- are facing the direction of financial circles and high-income, profitable companies, their prescriptions, their recommendations, political sanctions, if necessary. Now, while I have a personal say in this law here, I'm afraid we're not dealing with a participating bill. A complementary role of the last Health Transformation Programme in this area is coming to our attention. No matter what we do, there is no turning back of running water. We're going through a process, and we're going through a period where the concept of weakening the state and strengthening democracy is reversed. Democracy will be strengthened, on the basis of human rights, freedoms, but it will be strengthened by the decision of the financial environments, by the direction of the international capital environments, by making laws, not by making laws, but by putting the people's demands into the life of the living. So for a strong democracy, the powerful state device will be restored. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0119par0132	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 10 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 10th of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We propose that the first sentence of the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Dr. From the Heart High Solomon Çelebi Izzet Cetin Haydar Akar Musa Pine Levent Gök The employer must or must assess the risk in terms of occupational health and safety with the participation of employees. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0120par0149	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0119par0150	It's Haydar Akar who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0121par0152	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, my condolences to our soldiers who have lost their lives because of today's incident. And I wish our wounded soldiers a speedy recovery. I have made a commitment to the 10th Amendment of the Law on Health and Safety. I salute you all. In business accidents, we live in a country where the world's third is Europe's first, where on average one work accident occurs every minute and one of our workers dies every day. These are work accidents, and there are work accidents that don't appear on record. Mr. Faruk Çelik, Minister of Labour and Social Security, answered a question motion, according to Social Security Agency records, stating that from 2002 to 2011, 735,803 work accidents occurred and 10,804 people died. Turkey is shaken by business accidents in its recent years, while thousands of our citizens are crippled every year in business accidents across Turkey, particularly the Tuzla shipyard and mines. In February, 10 workers were killed by the explosion of the cover of the Gökdere Bridge Dam tunnel in the village of Ergenupüskı, in Kozan district of Adana Province, and five of them were still unable to be found. In April, five TEDAS workers lost their lives in the dam pond in Erzurum, and the AKP government only looked at it. The common thing about workplaces where accidents happen is that they are businesses where job security is ignored, audits are never implemented, unionisation is not available, subcontractorship is common. The decline of public business understanding, the decline of unionisation, has caused the issue of labour health and occupational safety to become a chronic problem. As these problems escalated, you led to increased business accidents during your ten years of power, by not implementing the laws that you claim your government has set out to solve problems, as your government has not solved them. The AKP government bypassed its own labour legislation by drafting a regulation in 2004. The regulation is that the Turkish Medical Association does not consider the opinions and proposals of the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architects, and the Court of State 10. A lot of articles have been cancelled by his apartment. Following the cancellation of the regulation, the AKP's government changed its policy in 4857, rather than in accordance with the law. This change was clearly made to render the verdict useless. Instead of regulation being regulated in accordance with the law, the laws were intended to be adapted to the regulations. This method has never met the requirements of democratic life, as it is a ten-year practice of power by the AKP government, which violates the principles of being a law state. Thus, the AKP government has faced a tragicly tragic situation, such as changing its second term, rather than doing the required work of a law in its day. Now it's 2012. The AKP government is redecorating and while the law is being made, trade organisations and trade unions, including the Turkish Medical Association, are not involved. If this law is passed, I'm afraid the concept of worker health and safety will be reduced to the concept of occupational health and safety. This law is not made for the health of workers, but to open the way for employers not to take precautions. This law is a law designed to not reduce problems, but rather to blame employees, occupational safety experts and workplace physicians as responsible for problems. Dear lawmakers, we face a process such as the implementation of control by private agencies in the Bill of Labour Health and Safety. This process is actually a bit similar to the Building Control Law. The maintenance of the buildings is provided by private companies, and the health and safety inspection of the buildings is also required. So the grizzly's alibi is a winer. By privatizing control, you want to create a serious Rant area. As the AKP metabolizes everything, it also metabolises the health and safety of workers and sees the health and safety of workers as a service. Labour health and safety, however, are not a service; it is a right. It is also a right to work safely, as is the right to education and health. When we say "right," you can't put any authority there other than state authority, if you call it service, you put it there. Besides, that's where the AKP's delusion begins. It should not be taken into account that it is a public responsibility to establish a healthy and secure working order. This should not be left in the responsibility of commercial enterprises based on profit logic. Dear lawmakers, the law is incomplete and crippled in every way. It is unrealistic to say that all employees are covered by occupational health and safety, the limits of health and safety measures have been lifted. Because public employees have been excluded. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This law does not apply to those who produce goods and services in their own name and account without employment. It is considered to be among the exceptions of those who work in their own name and account. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0122par0163	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0123par0166	We want roll call, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0122par0167	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll carry it out. Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Silver, Mr. Akar, Mr. Moroglu, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Kökturk, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tetür, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Coach, Mr. Eksinci, Mr. Soydan. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 11 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Job Health and Safety Bill 11th, number 1/277. We propose and propose that the following (d) joke be added to the article. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart, Süleyman Çelebi Bulent Tezcan Izzet Cetin Uður Bayraktutan Musa Pine (d) The employer informs the workers on the work of the emergency situation and gives confirmation to the City Department of Labor on emergency plans under the above jokes. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0124par0193	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0122par0194	Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0125par0196	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're interviewing the esteemed lawmakers, the bill of occupational health and safety. Dear friends, when it comes to concepts such as occupational health, occupational health, and occupational safety, the first thing that comes to mind in the past is the anxiety and hesitation that the cost element will increase. In areas that are particularly business environments and spokesmen of business environments, it has been understood that work health, labour health, work safety, and the first thing to be considered to be considered to be a cost-enhancing factor is to be considered the first thing to be saved as work health, work safety costs. I'm afraid it's been looked at in this framework as we've been looking at the provisions that regulate business safety in our legislation so far. Dear friends, I'm afraid we haven't given up on that understanding in the bill that we're meeting today in front of the General Assembly. Business safety is still considered a cost factor, and labour is considered the first cost factor in the product, which will be abandoned in production, the first cost to be saved. Dear friends, can you imagine that Turkey has risen to the status of the 3rd and 1st country in the world in business accidents during the ten-year period of AKP power? What we haven't lost is a one-way street in which we should be ashamed of working. We have become the third country in the world and the first in Europe. Dear friends, how did this happen? In the ten-year period of AKP power, unsecured working methods have been systematically established. We're putting unsecured work into business, from public to private sector. Dear friends -- more recently -- 11 workers who went abroad, working to bring their child's bread money, and trying to warm themselves with the electric stove in the room, like a tiny cell piled over stack. This law, the safety of work, that 11 people, 11 workers, were burned because you really gave up on the understanding that a person, a worker, a worker, could live in healthy conditions. Dear friends -- look, it's very interesting -- the employer who killed those workers -- will have received a plaque from the Prime Minister, received an award, received a plaque of success, so the AKP Power will be a state of history by handing the Prime Minister the record of success to the employer who burned 11 workers who burned to death because they didn't take the safety measure of business in Esenyurt.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0126par0203	What plaque of success?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0125par0204	Now, with that understanding, we're discussing the safety law you brought in. Dear friends, as long as you don't pave the way for union organization, unless you create powerful unions, you can't tolerate the union struggle, the organised struggle of the working class, you can't create trade unions under the rule of power, you can't act as long as you create trade unions. I ask you, who will supervise? Unless there is an organized working class union, as long as there is no organized working class, who will oversee the working conditions of the worker, provided there is no union struggle? Dear friends, the AKP Power is looking at the working class with an understanding that even during the ruling period, the strike bans from September 12th are less and that bans a strike on the airline business. It is not possible for a government that looks to the working class with that understanding, blind to the work, deaf to the ears, and speechless to provide job guarantees. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0127par0209	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 12th of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We submit and propose that the following (3) be added to the article. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the heart of Solomon's Çelebi F. Nur Serter Mosa Pine Levent Gök of Uður Flag (3) In the event of serious, close, and unstoppable danger, or the risk of such danger, employees demand that they be released directly to the employer if there is no board or board. If the employer fails to comply with the request of the staff or the Council and the employees suffer for that reason, the criminal responsibility will also be exposed and taken into consideration by the competent court. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0128par0226	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0127par0227	Nur Serter has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0129par0229	Mr. President, I'd like to congratulate Mr. Secretary and members of the Commission first as I begin my remarks, because they strongly advocated a concept that has no meaning or meaning in Turkish, such as business health, and I really congratulate them. Of course, when we did that, Mr. Secretary said: "We use this concept according to international criteria. We see that when we turn our eyes to what we call international criteria or terminology, there is no concept of occupational health. There was a convention in Istanbul in 2011. In the English translation of Congress at this convention, the Turkish equivalent of the concept used in its emblem is in work, health and safety in business, because it has no health. And when you look at it as the health of the job, it's an understanding of the efficiency of the workplace, the loss of labor, that ignores the painting worker. In short, the translation of this concept is understanding that accepts the worker as a means of production rather than as a human being. Therefore, it has become clear to the public that those who refuse to agree to all the motions given since the 1st Amendment, or to disagree with them, have prepared a law for what purpose. The AKP has no workers on its agenda, no people working on the AKP's agenda, he has no health, he has no security, not the employee's safety. This mentality also led to Turkey's declaration of European championships in business accidents in Turkey. Now we turn our eyes and look, what are we looking at? We're looking at the World Health Organization, we're looking at the International Labour Organization, and we're looking at what kind of arrangement, what definition was there for the safety of the workers? And we're looking at this: the understanding that talks about the safety of the worker, the health of the worker, is not just about the health of his body, it's not just about protecting his body against danger and risk, it's based on his psychology, it's about his social needs. That's the way he sees an employee in Western societies that we don't have. That's why Western societies are working towards human work, human fitness. Are these actually new studies? It's not new. Dear friends, these concepts have come to work in the 19th century, the concept of humanization of work, that is the understanding that the employee should be seen as a human being, not as a means of production, but as a human being in the 21st century, we call it work health in Turkey, and consider the employee to be destroyed. It's a truly condemnable situation, and I wish that in a law interview where opportunities like this were created, the AKP would seize this opportunity and humanize the name of this law a little bit. Dear friends, now, the business accident is no doubt the problem of the whole world. In 15 seconds, one worker in the world is killed in a work accident, 160 workers in 15 seconds are killed in a work accident. But what do Western societies do? He's looking for ways to reduce them. Now, the last number in Turkey was 1,563 people who died from a business accident in 2011. So, what's the situation in Western societies? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey is four times the size of Germany, and when we look at the Netherlands and Austria, business accidents in Turkey are 15 times their number, and this law will not solve anything. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0130par0238	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 13 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 13th, number 1/277. We propose and propose that Article 4 be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine ▪ Employees are practically employed when they are not working according to the laws of the law, even though they demand it. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0131par0253	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0130par0254	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0132par0256	And before I begin my words -- we have eight martyrs in Dağlıca, 16 wounded -- I ask God's mercy to our martyrs, to heal our wounded, to offer my immediate condolences to our relatives and to our nation. However, 13 of our prisoners, our prisoners, burned to death in the midst of the madness, and God have mercy on them. Yes, the employee's right to avoid working in situations that threaten body integrity and life is defined as a right to work. In order for the worker to exercise that right, the potential dangers must be close, serious, and vital. These concepts discussed in the draft have been reassessed as close, serious and unstoppable. The bill separates the employee's right to not work and their condition of leaving the workplace. In the first instance, the danger is indicated to be imminent and serious, while in the second instance, it is also unstoppable. According to the clause that regulates the right of the bill to avoid working, when workers identify serious and imminent danger, they will go to the occupational health and work safety board, go to the employer where the board does not exist, and they will be able to use the right to refrain from working if these measures are not taken, and they will be able to go to a safer place. This clause, which regulates the right of the bill to refrain from working, renders it virtually dysfunctional. How will the worker detect serious and imminent danger? He did, how can he go to the employer and say that? Yes, I've identified this danger and I'm not working. Is that what he's going to say? As you know, more than 50 employees have a business health and occupational safety committee with this bill. So instead of the board, it's more of an employer. What will the employer's attitude toward the worker be? Really, dear MPs, put your hands on your conscience. Is this really practical or can it be done? What will the employer say to the worker? The door is here, you have the right not to work. Well, knowing this fact, can he go to the employer and say, "I don't work?" It's the same as leaving her to die, leaving her to the worker who has no job guarantees while dying in order not to lose her job in the reality of the country. We're already giving the representative this right in the current application, the representative is applying to the board on this, and now this is changing. As long as we don't get the union rep, the shields are obviously going to lose their jobs using the rights they've been given. Secondly, how will we determine that the danger is imminent, serious, and unstoppable? This means that the event will have begun to happen. It means that it's too late, so the purpose of the law's prevention will change as a goal of compensation. For example, how will workers who burned to death in the mall leave the area? It's really not the right logic. If we really care about our people, our lives, our health, come on, let's all change that. A higher right than the provisions in the relevant clause of the bill has already been in Article 83 of Law 4857, under the rights of workers for nine years, but the workers have not been able to use them. So there's no point in fooling each other, ourselves. There's no point pretending to do it. Our country really needs a practical, rational, human work health, occupational safety law. If we had already been doing this for nine years, there would have been no business accidents in Tekirdağ, Tuzla, Esenyurt, Zonguldak, Adana, and thousands of our employees would not have lost their lives. The clause that regulates the right to refrain from working also presents numerous qualifiers. For example, the Council makes its decision immediately. I don't know if it's an hour, 24 hours, a week. Well, the employer is required to decide according to the employee's request, but the situation is unclear when he decides against it. Dear friends, another problem with the bill is that employees with a contract of employment can be called off when employees in the private sector' demands are not met. Who's willing to take that chance and call off the contract of employment? The choice of the worker forced to make a choice between his work and his health will be his work in this unemployment environment, and we will avoid actually applying occupational health and safety. So the title of this article, I think, should be changed to work, not to avoid working. So I would like to evaluate the motion we've made, and I would like to offer all of you my respect and love, to make the necessary arrangements, and to prepare a work-health, occupational safety law that really suits us.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0133par0268	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: : Those who do not accept... matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 14: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 14th article of the main occupational health and safety bill (1/605), which is discussed, shall be replaced in the following way by a) and b) the second one. Mesut Dedeoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Rusar Demirel Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal Sinan Okan A) In 24 hours after the accident, B) In 24 hours from the day he learned about occupational illness reported to him by health care servers or occupational physicians He'll notify Social Security. (4) Healthcare servers report to Social Security within 24 hours of the cases they have been diagnosed with occupational illness, as well as business accidents that have occurred to them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 14th, number 1/277. We propose that the last sentence of the second joke be changed in the following way and that the additional jokes be added after their second, third and fourth jokes. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart, Sulayman Çelebi Ali Sarıbaş Moon Horseman Muharrem İklut Tezcan Dr. Aytun Çiray ▪ Reports to Social Security Agency. The employer immediately informs the authorities of the business accident. If the accident cannot be learned immediately, it will report it as soon as it is learned. In each city centre, at least one of the public hospitals is established a professional health clinic that provides adequate staff and infrastructure opportunities for free services. Workers can apply directly to these clinics. ▪ It is decided by the health board that a disease is a professional disease, created by medical examiners at the occupational clinic, or included by these doctors. The decision is sufficient for the diagnosis of the disease and for the employee to declare that the disease was born due to professional exposure. This report is sent by the health organization to the Social Security Agency in ten days at the latest to carry out the work and procedures that must be done due to occupational illness. The medical examiners who work at the occupational clinic are paid no less than the monthly payment paid to their counterparts at the same hospital. The difference is they get paid in addition to themselves. This payment is not subject to any interruption. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0134par0298	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0133par0299	It's Aytug Horseman, Mersin MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0135par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have brought to you the bill of occupational health and safety, knowing that you will not change our amendment proposal on the change of the second sentence of Article 14 of the Article 14 of the Law on Health and Safety. I hereby salute lawmakers who respect the sweat and are truly fellow workers. First of all, I ask for God's mercy on our soldiers who were martyrs in Hakkari. I especially share the pain of their parents and loved ones. I also bless those who have lost their lives in Şanlıurfa Prison. By the way, I'm ashamed of what's happening in prisons, what's going on with the inhumane. I strongly condemn those who have no shame left. Dear friends, what do we say in this amendment proposal? If you look at it from a human perspective, you will see that it is not possible to say no, but your hands will rise again. It's obvious already. We say that the employer should report the business accident to the authorities immediately. Such an accident is important. In each city centre, at least one of the public hospitals will open a police clinic that provides adequate staff and infrastructure for free services. I don't know how you can say no to that. So we're saying one clinic in every county should open up and look at occupational disorders. There are also problems with the definition of occupational illness. The medical examiners in the occupational health clinic should form a health board, study occupational disorders, because there is no expertise in this -- let them sit down and say that this disease is a professional disease or not. Now, these are, look, constructive criticisms of the opposition. I mean, it's a law that's already too late. It's a law that doesn't come out the way we want when it's late. But you always come out here, especially your group presidents say: "We expect constructive criticism from the opposition. Here is constructive criticism. Look, our tone is good, we don't yell at you, we don't get angry. We say, "Come, let's set up a professional policy." I really wonder how you're going to say no to that. Let's not impose performance on professional doctors, let's give them something from the average so everyone can work like a man. You know why I say these things? Because the Constitution commands it. The Constitution says in Article 49: "Working is everyone's rights and homework. " The state takes the necessary measures to improve the life level of employees, to protect and support employees in order to improve their working life. This is why you have to say yes. You have no choice but to say yes. You have no choice if you believe in the Constitution. The state says it makes it easier to maintain working peace in working-work relationships. And then, even though the people who did say that, they don't get enough of it, they get up to make it stronger, and they put up the 56, and they say: "The state allows everyone to keep their lives in body and soul health, and they do it by increasing savings and efficiency in the human and material power." At work, we suggest that you work together, and come to this proposal, and call it "Yes." The fact that these articles are included in our constitution shows the importance of the Constitution's work life, its value. Well, is that really the case? I'm afraid not. When we look at the application, the occupational illness of death to the laborer (work killings) falls to the laborer again, so: "The ways of love for you, boss, bullets for me." As you can see from here, the problem isn't really in the law, but it doesn't change much after you change the mindset. But come, let's at least change the law and make it good so that our fellow workers don't actually suffer from these professional diseases. Look, a lot of my friends here told me about our report card on business accidents, and we're European 1st. I wish we weren't, an unfortunate first place. Between 2002 and 2011 -- look, I'm not making this up -- there's a 735,803 reported business accident. And 10,297 people died in them. But look, these numbers don't exactly reflect the facts because we didn't write down the secondary deaths associated with the work accident here because the notice of secondary deaths is not mandatory. People dying and dying of silicone disease are not included in the district of Karliova. Come on, let's give them a helping hand, improve it a little bit, and accept this proposal, and we'll take it to a little bit more humane. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0136par0315	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0137par0318	President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0136par0319	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll carry it out. Mr. Akar, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Atıçı, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Akagün Yılmaz, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Moroğlu, Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Mr. Öz Öz, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Ediboglu, Mr. Güven, Mr. Özkoc, Mr. Serter, Mr. Fırat, Mr. Aygun. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 14th article of the main occupational health and safety bill (1/605), which is discussed, shall be replaced in the following way by a) and b) the second one. Mesut Dedeoğlu (Heromanmarash) and his friends A) In 24 hours after the accident, B) In 24 hours from the day he learned about occupational illness reported to him by health care servers or occupational physicians He'll notify Social Security. (4) Healthcare servers report to Social Security within 24 hours of the cases they have been diagnosed with occupational illness, as well as business accidents that have occurred to them. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0138par0341	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0136par0342	Rusar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir, is demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0139par0344	Mr. President, I have received your word on our motion as the National Movement Party Group. I want to remind you of a story that happened before. As we discussed the general bill here on Thursday, we stumbled upon a business accident. Do you know how we found out about that business accident? It's technology. Because this business accident near the House had fallen on their websites. At the last minute, Internet news said there was a dent in construction of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and a worker was under collapse. It was a little after 12:00, and we got word that the worker under the cave-in had passed away, so it was Friday. If the bill had been reported within three working days, as predicted, it would have had access to the relevant locations by today's evening. But as you can see, in the age of technology, all business accidents over the Internet reach all our cell phones, laptops, televisions, screens, everywhere without waiting for the employer to report. This is the age of technology. Or another news: On March 11, 2012, 11 workers died in the tent in Esenyurt, and you know that these workers were employees who were admitted to Social Security through the e-state minutes after their death, so I think you remember, what reason could they have in this era to make their notifications after the death of workers who could have social security, whether they were killed or had at least three work days after they were infected? Congressmans, we're in the age of technology, and even if we don't make some notifications, press or amateur cameras are transmitting a lot of accidents, a lot of business accidents, a lot of people with occupational illness, images of people on screens, phones we have. So we are a country that boasts about transitioning to the e-state, and the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is already involved in the work of the E-government, especially the SGK, with all of our knowledge. After these two stories, as the National Movement Party, we care that business accidents should be reported within 24 hours by the workplace physician within 24 hours after they've been discovered, because business accidents can be repeated, and after a business accident, none of us can guarantee that there will be no more business accidents in that workplace in three days, or if they have a professional illness, none of us can know if this occupational disease at work is contagious. For such reasons -- and for these reasons -- and we're in the age of technology, we're in the e-state -- one of the reasons for our motion was that material risks could be prevented by quickly entering the statistics of the state's health issues as well as by preventing business accidents. With these two examples, I wanted to refresh your memory by reminding you that the news of the death of the worker who was buried from midnight to morning, which connects last Thursday to Friday, should reach all of us within seconds, as well as the workers who had received social security after the death of 11 workers in Esenyurt. But there's more to it than there are to it, after their deaths. Who knows there are business accidents in Turkey that have no number of 11 workers, maybe one worker's death, that none of us have noticed, none of us have, none of us have seen. Therefore, we ask you to support our motion as a sign of how important our lives are, how important each of our employees are, not by the number of deaths, job accidents, occupational illness, or the decline of the press. I refer this matter to your consciences. Thank you very much. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit03spe0140par0352	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0140par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue their discussion on the second part of the Bill 277 rows. The commission and the government are in place. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who asked for the National Movement Party Group to speak on the second part.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0141par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First, I would like to express my condolences to all Turkish nations and relatives who were killed in a vicious terrorist attack. Unfortunately, on the one hand, the problem continues while some projects are being tried to continue. Instead of fighting terrorism, such results can continue when discussed. I'm going to review this part of the bill, bringing to everyone's attention that this problem is a separatist terrorism problem. Dear friends, there's been talk of occupational health and safety here, but in the past few weeks, we've discussed the union laws of all employees, the bans on strikes. So we're actually discussing a conflicting situation when we're talking about non-official, non-contracted unionism on the one hand. And while we're doing that, we're doing it again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it by missing the basics of things, because if there's a basic right to live, then healthy living is a complementary element. So all of these effects in the use of the right to work -- the effects of bodily integrity and health -- are not supposed to be at work, and the measures involved are also required. Of course, it's the government that gets it. The responsibility of being a social state is the government's responsibility to preserve and guarantee people's right to live. When you look at the description of the world health organization and the International Labour Organization, which includes all the conditions, it talks about reaching the highest level of goodness, welfare levels at this level, physical, spiritual, social level. When we look at it, it doesn't seem healthy for us to do so without a strike ban on its economic prosperity, not a collective contract of public employees, on the other hand, without measures on the safety of workers, without reviewing all of their physiology, all of their psychology, work space conditions. In fact, when we look here, of course, I've told all the employees -- for him, I've also told the public employees -- that it needs to be done in environments where job safety and health, work, good efficiency is appropriate. So, are there other household services workers, uninsured employees, such as tradesmen, working in their own workplaces, any precautions? No. Is there any study of a number of negative effects that will bring about when we bring the limit to the number? Sir, let's bring this down, let's increase it. When we say, are there any other measures to be taken about the other SMEs? Of course, it's one thing to take certain things out here, to take care of it, to make a law on it, but in the process of making this law, it has to be presented with a bill that includes what the ancients call a mosque, a mosque, an absorption. On the one hand, we've made a lot of laws, we've made a bag of laws for employment incentives, dear friends. Here, unfortunately, business accidents continued, and the Department of Labor has made some statements to save the day, considering just some of the issues here. Next thing we know, they're trying to subcontract their training. It's one of the worst things the AKP government has ever done. Both employees and a system of services are now becoming subcontractors. Unfortunately, as in every case, this place is looked at as a capital and is being tried to market here. These studies are moving towards a structure that paves the way for the private sector, which leads to subcontractorization, which encourages capital, but the priority here is not economic priority, but business health and safety first. So who makes money here, how it is, not what the economy of this sector is, but priority, the health and safety of these employees. I, interestingly, looked at the statistics given by friends, meaning that Turkey was ranked third in the world in mortal business accidents. Of course, I don't know if Mr. Secretary can give me any more information. Over 10,000 people have died in business accidents in the last ten years. So almost every day, four workers die from work accidents -- if we average that. We've discussed a lot of things here, we've seen, we've had discussions in the shipyards, after the accidents in the mines, but after we've done it in the heat, these remain. Unfortunately, there is one other thing, besides the health of this job, which is, in fact, beyond the safety of the profession, we are far behind in Turkey. In particular, many of the world's accepted occupational diseases are not considered a professional disease in Turkey. And when we look at the memos, it's still tragic. So either there's something missing from those reports, or there's something missing from those occupational disorders, or there's no report of anyone trying to avoid their legal responsibilities. There's a hitch, because when we look at the world average, and we look at the people here, unfortunately, there's not enough control here, and there's not enough infrastructure to combat the occupational illness, and here, of course, there's a commercial understanding that I've just said, so there's a monetary understanding that comes first. In that case, rather than the concern of human anxiety, human health and safety, a commercial concern has arisen, rather than the study of who will conduct inspections on this issue through the private sector, through the private sector, and through the private sector to do their training and certification. These flaws need to be repaired. So our goal here is not to protect businesses or increase efficiency, but to increase the profit share, but to ensure that the environment where it's being done is healthy, safe. If we don't create a system that puts the human element forward, first thinker, then, after a while, we develop a system that starts to think about who controls it, who gives it, who gives it to the company, which is more accurate. For him, there must be an arrangement that puts a person first, highlights the measures for occupational health and safety, which will, of course, allow employers to follow the rules. The state's protective function, of course, will regulate it, but first I think it has to take measures to ensure the safety and health of those employees. Because when we look at it, I've just made the flaws in this place, as a matter of fact. Why is it missing? If we ignore the opposition, as in all the laws, if we ignore the opposition, I look here, of course some of it has been compiled here, some of it has been done, some of it has been done, some of it is left, but what's relevant is that the Medical Association has explanations, there are employers' agencies, labor unions, everyone has opinions on this issue. It seems that there is no study here that is in complete harmony with them and can be balanced by their demands. So, unfortunately, we're faced with a general problem of perspective. As with other laws, there seems to be a study that is completely materializing, unprivileged, that will solve some of the glitches in the system, that can lead to new setbacks. Of course, some of the motions have just been made, Mr. Secretary. We have agreed. Of course, when the shortcomings are corrected, they are accepted. I'm afraid this is happening because the motions we made the other day were rushed and didn't go through the filter. Right now, the Plan and Budget Commission has received a bag of bills, and we're seeing new proposals constantly coming in before we even meet. The bills from the government, unfortunately, come with the signature of a few of our fellow lawmakers. Therefore, these mistakes will continue. As a matter of fact, it's far from a bill that puts labor health, occupational health and safety first, but I think it's better if it's corrected by some motions. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0142par0017	Thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sebahat Tuncel is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0143par0020	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the second part of Business Health and Safety Act 277. I salute you all. Following the government's application for full membership in the European Union on 3 October 2005, the start of the negotiation process began efforts to adapt to the health and safety of workers. The negotiation process was an obligation to adapt to the European Union and the ILO norms. The integration process saw not only what was defined by the contract of employment, but also the necessary and mandatory future arrangements, including all employees. With the European Union's environmental directive, the draft was drafted in December 2005, in accordance with contracts 155 of the ILO Health and Work Environment and 161 of Occupational Health Services. Instead of arguing with workers, workers, or occupational organisations, this draft was first sent by the government to capital organizations, and it was drafted and brought to our attention today. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that Turkey is the third place in the world in the deaths of workers. This dire situation will be a major step in the pursuit of laws in accordance with the ILO contracts set by world standards, with the detailed trade unions and organisations working in this area, preventing deaths. It is important to remember that in many sectors of business accidents that have resulted in death, we are talking about a country that has lost China and is ranked number 1 in the first place. And while we're negotiating this bill, we always think it's best to keep it in mind. The strange thing is that business security in our country, which is constantly boasted of economic growth, is not growing in the same way, but as the years go by, the number of business accidents is increasing. During the time Turkey grew 8.5 per cent, fatal business accidents grew more and more. According to the data of rooms and unions, business accidents increased by 15 per cent during the period of the growth of 8.5 per cent. Turkey has shrunk by 4.8 per cent, and business accidents in 2009 have been fewer than reports. So what is described as growth is actually nothing more than capital increases in the deaths of workers. As a result, more profits are adopted by the AKP government, the slogan of more workers' deaths. Although it is not expressed as such a expression, practical results show it to us. According to data released by the Labour and Social Security Minister, the number of workers killed in business accidents from 2002-2011 was 10,297. In 2012, 250 workers lost their lives in the first four months. In January, 62, 42 in February, 59 in March and 87 in April, workers lost their lives. During the growing HES dam construction during the AKP period, in the first five months of 2002, nearly 30 people lost their lives in HES construction. Members of parliament, according to the 2011 report of social rights violations, the number of workers who died in business accidents was 641, while the number of people who were fatally injured in business accidents was 668. A total of 1,309 people were killed in a fatal business accident, and half of them died on the day of their work accident. The other data recorded in business accidents is 2,166. These numbers have increased by 15 per cent compared to 2010. According to the figures, workers always pay the price for growing up in Turkey. Members of parliament, one of every four fatal business accidents takes place in the construction sector in Turkey. One of the five work accidents occurred in the manufacturing industry. The two sectors follow the mining sector in the third place. The fourth is ranked by seasonal agricultural workers. An overwhelming majority of the deaths in the manufacturing industry occur on organised industrial sites. I'm afraid there's been a situation of organizing industry that's organized the deaths of workers. Fires, explosions, electrical leaks are caused by certain causes of death. We would like to point out that work accidents and workers' deaths in businesses such as construction, shipbuilding, manufacturing industry, where subcontractorships are at extreme levels in every sector. Public subcontractorship and flexible employment forms, considered a fortress of both private sectors and legal work during the AKP administration, are rapidly spreading. Workers in many areas from municipalities, primarily education and healthcare sectors, are included in the harshest and unsecured working life. While hundreds of thousands of university graduates work for a staffed job on public staff exams, a significant portion of public employment is provided through unsecured, unconcerned working methods and service by subcontracted subcontractors. According to DİSK's subcontractorship report, sectors such as construction, mining, shipbuilding are areas where work accidents and subcontractor practices are dense. For example, only 10,013 of the 35,042 workers employed in the shipbuilding sector work with the original employer, while the remaining 25,029 are employed by the sub-employee. In other words, 71 per cent are employed by the sub-employee. That's an extremely scary ratio. The construction industry is almost in the hands of subcontractors. In many sectors, such as cleaning, food, security, transportation, storage and communications and so on, subcontractors are now under way. Other than that, production in an industrial industry is seen to be illegally divided into many subcontractors. It's a very intense situation in salt shipyards. With the exception of government officials, at best 30 per cent of the registered labor force -- close to 3 million workers -- are unsecured employees of these subcontractors. So occupational health and occupational safety are in fact a serious problem in these areas. The sub-employee does not accept that responsibility. Perhaps with this law being passed today, it will be partly as if these problems are being resolved, but if this is not done strongly, if the conditions here are not met in this sense, unfortunately, the work killings will continue, the work killings will continue. Members of parliament, another problem for Turkey is child labor. According to the DİSK report, one of every five children in the world is working and one of every two children is working in Turkey. There are 306 million child workers worldwide, while Turkey has 1 million child workers. The total number of children working from 5 to 17 is 49 per cent in Turkey. Child labor has been known to shift to industry after the dissolution of agriculture. In 1994, the rate of 16 per cent was up to 28 per cent of child labor in 2006. According to ILO data, Turkey ranked eighth in child labor after China, India, Venezuela, Brazil, Indonesia, Kenya and Thailand. Turkey expects it to meet its requirements as a country that sided with Contract 182, the emergency action plan for eliminating the worst conditions of child labor in the world. The measures to prevent the operation of under 15 years of age must be taken immediately, and agriculture, considered the worst form of child labor in the world, must carry out emergency action plans in 15 areas, such as the manufacturing industry. Congressmans, of course, we've expressed this bill from the beginning, and it's humane to wonder if there's a point to opposition. You know, when you think that these power seats are empty, we're wondering how sensitive we are when we think about the lawmakers who come in here when they're asked to raise their hand or if they're asked to make a decision. But this is where we discuss a bill that affects our lives, which is seriously in the way of our lives. This bill, I hope, from now on, will have a bill that will make the lives of the workers a little easier for the workers. Finally, I would like to point out that the problem with the government, the opposition here, has to solve the problems of workers, workers, workers, and make arrangements to ensure both rights and freedom of life on the freedom of organization. It is important not only to do so but also to express the rules and how you apply them to life. Once again, we want to emphasize that there's nothing we can do after the deaths, unfortunately, there's enough death in Turkey, and the important thing is to take preventive measures without accidents. This bill, I hope, will be sufficient to take these measures. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0144par0036	Thank you. Mesut Dedeoglu, deputy of Kahramanmarash, who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0145par0038	I won't talk.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0144par0039	Ismail Tamer, Kayseri MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0146par0041	Mr. President, before I begin my words, I ask God's blessings on our martyrs of Dağlıca. I wish God's blessings to our citizens who were burned to death in the prison. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in the second part of the Law on Health and Safety. I salute you all. Article 49 of the Constitution is the rights and homework of everyone. The state takes the necessary measures to improve the life level of employees, to protect employees and support work in order to improve their working life. Again, Article 56 of the Constitution states that the government allows everyone to live their lives in body and mental health. The Bill of Occupational Health and Safety of the United Nations has been obliged to choose everyone's work profession at the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, and to recognise the right to work under just and proper conditions. Under the current Business Act 4857, Turkey has a limited structure between the employer and the workers working within the contract. Some of the workers in our country have remained outside the scope of the Business Law, so they are not covered by legislation. The concept of employees and employers also showed changes. Of course, in addition to all of this, a more comprehensive law that regulates occupational health care is mandatory within the framework of European integration laws with the EU Union. The European Union published the EEC Framework Director in 1989, which includes both the public and the private sector. The private sector includes all departments such as industry, agriculture, trade, administrative work, education, culture and so on, but very specifically, the armed forces and police agencies were excluded. In the international agreements mentioned above, I have just told you that a large number of employees in our country are lacking in occupational health and safety services, as well as in Business Act 4857. According to occupational health safety in our country in 2009, 176 people have been in accidents a day, 3 to 4 people have lost their lives, and 5 others have been unable to function again. Of course, to be honest with you, it's good to rephrase how important this law is if we put it off the record. Another issue we will focus on is that most of the workplaces in Turkey are in the SMEs, 99.7 per cent under the SME roof. 83.8 per cent of the employees are working at the KOBI, while 83 per cent of the business accidents are still here. According to ILO data, economic losses in countries due to occupational accidents and occupational illness constitute 4 per cent of the GDP. This figure is around 44 billion in total, according to the 2010 current prices in Turkey -- if we look at it together with business accidents and occupational diseases. All of this can tell us how important losses there are in the economy. So, with this law, we plan to eliminate all this negativity. After this law comes to life, I wish you all the blessings of our country, my respect and love.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0147par0052	Thank you. Now, for 15 minutes, there will be a question-answer procedure on the section. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0148par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked him in my speech, Mr. Secretary, we refer to international agreements, institutions left out of the scope of business security in international agreements, the police force, these civil defence activities and armed forces. Other than that, why do we exclude home services and business safety issues related to employees of their own reputation and account? Mr. Secretary, I'd like your opinion on this. Again, I asked you the other day, you consider young employee to be 15 years old, but there is a situation in the National Education Act where you send 13-year-old boy to apprentice. How do you explain that, then? Will there not be an arrangement contrary to international agreements and the Employment Act?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0149par0058	Thank you. Mr. Dinçer... Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0150par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, of course it's a good thing to have a Business Health and Occupational Safety Act removed after years in Turkey, but when we look at the content of this law, we see that there are serious shortages in the health of workers. In particular, the employer, occupational physician, and occupational safety expert mentioned in Article 6 is called "if he himself is talented or has a document, he can take it upon himself. " No employer complains about himself, doesn't control himself. He's not like this anywhere. It is not in Turkey, nor in the world. So I think that's gonna be a problem. Do you believe this law will solve this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0151par0064	Thank you. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0152par0066	Mr. Secretary, according to media reports today that you have been unable to address the chairman of the Airways Board of Directors, Topçu, in your talks to rescind 305 workers who have been discharged as a business activist, and it has been said that this has been a negative outcome. Is the chairman of the Turkish Airways Board on a higher mission than you, one? Second: You have not been able to overcome the pressure of employers from time to time and the failure of some ministers to sign legislation. Do you accept your failure in these matters, or do you intend to do so? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0153par0069	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0154par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I have two questions. First: After the examination fees of workplace physicians, 3 Turkish liras are cut off during the collection of prescriptions from pharmacies. Given that the state does not contribute in this sense to workplace physicians, given that the wages of workplace physicians are given by the employer, for what reason would I like to know from the prescription that 3 Turkish lira contributions have been cut? Second: As expressed in this bill, Turkey is far from and inadequate from the European Union standards in terms of professional illness. Therefore, I think it's a good idea to capture the European parameters with the authority to pre-diagnosed and diagnose the workplace physicians in order to fix this. Isn't that artificial? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0155par0075	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0156par0077	Mr. Secretary, we're interviewing the employees' health and safety, but the numbers you've given us are really bad. Is it true that we are third in the world after El Salvador and Algeria in the deaths of business accidents in Turkey? Also, how do you explain 735,803 workplace accidents between 2002 and 2011? And my final question, Mr. Secretary, is what measures have you taken in the Istanbul shipyards? Will the killings at Istanbul shipyards end now? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0157par0081	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0158par0083	Thank you, Mayor. Yesterday İstanbul Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge and Haliç Bridge began maintenance and asphalting. The study will take three months. Traffic is literally paralyzed, and it's going on today. Istanbul's public transport, especially sea transport, was caught off guard, and the problem turned into a disaster. The sea buses, the ferry, the boat, the ferry weren't enough. It was months in advance that the program was scheduled for this care. Even though this was known, why was there no increase in sea transportation on the European and Anatolian side of the Bosphorus and Marmara? Pendik, Maltepe, Eagle, the Catwalk, why aren't the ferry docks being used? Even if it's too late, is there a traffic management plan between both sides to increase sea transportation capacity? Is there a co-ordination agreement between the Governor of Istanbul and the IBB? We recommend a three-month traffic emergency management or crisis management plan for Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0157par0085	Thank you. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0159par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister. Under the bill, it would include all employees. But I want to know why there are no agricultural workers in the agricultural sector that contribute 25 per cent to employment and 9 per cent to illegal domestic product. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0160par0091	Thank you. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0161par0093	Thank you. Do you believe there are sufficient audits on occupational safety and occupational health? How many businesses have been inspected in this area in the last ten years? What sanctions have been imposed at the end of these inspections? Is the number of people who do inspection enough? The total workday loss lost in our country due to business accidents cost the economy around $50 billion for 2011. How much is our ministry's budget for occupational safety and occupational health activities? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0162par0097	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0163par0099	Thank you, Mayor. The occupational security expert has to inspect the workplace he works at. Under Article 25 of the Employment Law, the employee has an obligation to be faithful to the employer. How do you relate this to this? My second question: under the occupational safety code, he has the right to quit his job due to occupational safety of interns and apprentices. Even though this is in the Employment Act, the arrangement you brought in has nothing to do with interns or apprentices. How can you afford that? My third question: the right to avoid work has been arranged in three ways in our law: 1) Legal strike. 2) Security reasons. 3) When the fee is not paid on time. Is it ethical to prevent a strike by law even though it is a legal right? My last question: How many people in the Ministry of Turkey received a certificate of inspection of heavy workplaces?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0164par0105	Thank you. Dear Light... Last question.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0165par0108	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, the engineers or other testers who are in charge of mining businesses are doing these audits with the money provided by the employer. This arrangement is actually obstructing a legitimate control of mining businesses. In this case, we know that the bodies of our workers who died from accidents or collapses in the mining business in 2011 and 2012 are still unaccounted for. How many of our workers, including Kahramanmarash, Zonguldak, and Kütahya, had insurance in our provinces? What measures have been taken by the Ministry to compensate for the victims of their families? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0166par0112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0167par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. Why is home services out of bounds? We've actually said that a couple of times. Number 89/391 by directive one. Second: there is no employment contract, so there is no employee and employee position.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0168par0116	Why not, Mr. Secretary, why not?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0167par0117	See, we're talking about an unregistered practice in household services -- we're talking about heavy women in household services. I've already expressed in the earlier question-answer section that we're in a different arrangement about this, that we should put the employment offices on the line. Otherwise, it will remain unregistered and therefore not included in this law on part-time work, as long as these flaws in our legislation remain unregistered.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0168par0118	There's a business contract, Mr. Secretary, just not a regular business contract.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0167par0119	I'd like to state that we have a study of employment offices to sort this out. Let me also say that this is the table under directive 89/391. Second: There have been many assessments of the concept of occupational health, safety. It's as if we, as the government, brought the matter of business health, safety, through this law. That's not true. Dear friends, on 24/08/2000, during the time of the late Ecevit, there are also significant changes in our ministry's organization's law with a decree on the rule of law. One of them is: I would like to point out that a unit known as the Office of the Office of Labour Health was changed to the Office of Business Health, Security. So this is also the government of that day, which is in the government that day, the National Movement Party is in Parliament today, and we believe that this arrangement of that day is true. As a matter of fact, after the Constitutional Court called off the ruling of the law, these provisions that were left in the void were then implemented in 2003, in accordance with the Ministry's Agency's Law. As a result, the office of the Office of Labour Health has become the General Directorate for Health and Safety. Now what is in the United States of America? The United States Health Security Act came into effect in 1970. There are many countries, but the British Health and Health Act came into effect in 1974, the Burkina Faso Health Act in 1985. Therefore, since there have been many different assessments of the name of the bill, I have felt the need to express them and clarify them. In addition, if there is a worker's health permit, the employer can also use it. This is also an arrangement within the framework of EU applications. A question was asked about Turkish Airlines. We've had our talks with the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Turkish Airlines today, but the issue has been brought to justice, and there's a process in which both sides have been brought to trial, and there are opinions about that process. So, we're continuing our negotiations with a finder's size. I hope it works out in a healthy way, but in the process, everyone is saying that you've been acting in a legal way. While the union is saying the same thing, the Turkish Airways administration says: "This was not the result of a strike. The result of a collective contract was not a picture of the result of a strike, but rather a violation of our existing legislation, against our union legislation, an illegal act." The interpretation was taken to court by both sides. We'll have to wait for the verdict.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0169par0124	You're the one who caused the problem, Mr. Secretary, not the workers! You've created a problem, you'll solve it. You've made a lot of workers lose their bread.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0167par0125	As Department of Labor, we're doing our part. The other thing is, it's about age. With this law, we will now remove Article 85 of the Work Law. The 85th article contains provisions for those who will work hard and dangerous jobs. We remove it, and we add the provisions for those who have not aged fifteen and have not received days of age eighteen to Article 71. There's two things there. One: the current arrangement provides a definition of,, less dangerous, and, very dangerous. So in response to the 85/50 heavy and dangerous work, the current arrangement in the Business Health and Safety Bill is being described as dangerous, dangerous, and very dangerous. Here again, the occupational obligation for dangerous and dangerous work is protected. In addition, it is organised by regulations of what jobs they will be working on when they are 15 and 18 years old. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They're certainly not going to be employed in very dangerous and very dangerous jobs, and that's what it says.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0170par0130	Is it on the bill?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0167par0131	Of course, there are many issues, and I'm going to present them in writing along with the others. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0171par0133	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There's a motion on the 24th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 24th and 2277th. We propose and propose that the following sentence be added after the first sentence of Article (3). With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine The administration of such businesses is also carried out by the Ministry's inspectors. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0172par0150	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0171par0151	Antalya MP Gürkut Acar has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0173par0153	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 24/7 of Business Health and Safety Act 277. I salute you. Before I begin with my words, I honor our eight martyrs in Dağlıca, our one martyr in Hakkari, and the 13 prisoners who died in Urbana -- all of them -- and I want to express my regrets. Come on, terror is a pain in the ass for all of us, and I'm saying this for all of the parties, but, dear friends, we really need to pay more attention to the 13 people who have been killed by these harsh conditions in prisons, the incredible, unbearable conditions, because when something like this happens in no country in the world, a justice minister, the person responsible for this job, doesn't sit still; he offers his resignation, he resigns. Dear friends, please, I ask you to take this seriously. This is an unprecedented event in the world, and conditions in prisons are getting worse and worse. I know that there are some of you who may have been in these prisons, and I want you to appreciate how bad those conditions are. Now, my dear friends, this is the 24th article of control. In fact, Turkey has sufficient experience and savings in all areas, but Turkey lacks the determination to follow and follow the rules and control. Perhaps the most important flaw is the control issue. Control will be independent, audit staff, inspectors will be independent, they will work in security, but unfortunately, there is no such structure. During the AKP, the issue of control has become increasingly weak, my dear friends. As all public institutions were turned upside down, the inspection system was virtually dysfunctional. The radical review boards have been shut down. Look, one of the most important and highest, most transparent audit institutions was the Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board, and now it's gone. What happened? It was shut down, melted in the court, which was chosen by the power's votes. In their investigations, the investigators who touched, reached out to the government, and wrote them themselves became the subject of investigation. Investigators have to be on the public side, and they should feel secure, but the opposite happened, the inspector's office was worn down, destroyed. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has always escaped inspection. Look, the biggest reason for corruption, irregularities, business accidents in this country is lack of control. Look, this government has drawn up a strategy document to fight corruption, where it is said: "There will be a review of the status of leave in the audits and investigations." For some reason, the public is not doing it. It became impossible for the Prime Minister to take the investigation into court, let alone a person the ministers didn't want. What kind of control is that? We see in local governments that there are inspectors in the municipalities where opposition parties are in charge. If Ankara and Istanbul are in major cities, the AKP municipalities are not allowed to investigate. As with everything else, the control system has been adopted by the AKP. My dear friends, what is the reflection of this lack of supervision on business? Business accidents are labor killings, disabled workers and off-the-books work. In ten years, 10,804 deaths were created. Turkey's most important problem is unregistered. In these ten years, have you been able to get any distance from the unregistered? How will you ensure your health and safety at a place where unregistered work is common? Are there health and safety for people who aren't on the official record, my dear friends? First of all, what needs to be done is to prevent off-the-books and create the conditions for organized, union work. Then you'll do objective inspections with objective measurements. As long as you do not build this structure, Turkey will not be able to change its position in the order of business accidents and workers' deaths. Dear friends, our proposal and the objective system in military workplaces are also aimed at validating the objective system. The inspection system must be independent. Instead of auditing inspectors of the National Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labor must be allowed to oversee them. With these thoughts, I wish the motion to be accepted, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0174par0165	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 25th article, and I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 25th of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. When a life-threatening issue is detected in buildings and plugins at work, working methods and methods or work equipment; until this danger is resolved, the quality of life-threatening and the area where the risk can be compromised are considered to be taken into account, and the work is stopped in the entire workplace. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Ilhan Demiröz Musa Pine Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0175par0181	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0174par0182	Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0176par0184	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made regarding the 25th Article of Business Health and Safety Act 277, which is being discussed. I salute you all with respect and love. Before I begin my words, I also pay tribute to the martyrs we lost in Hakkari Mountainca, and to the families we lost in Urbana, to the grieving families, to the wounded, to the wounded, to the immediate healing. Dear lawmakers, in proportion to the rapid industrialisation and technological developments in the world and Turkey, there have also been problems with the safety of those working at work. Therefore, some measures are important to all of us in order to make the workplace even safer by being taken in advance, but I would like to emphasize another important issue: if there is no job security, I repeat, if there is no job security, I would like to ask what the safety of the business will mean. I want to continue this with an example from Bursa, because we have a factory in Bursa, in Orhangazi, I can give them the name of the factory later if they want it. This factory was transferred in 2000 to a financial institution that the employer borrowed due to a breakdown in his business. The employer, at his own workplace, unfortunately, has become a tenant by handing over his machines, all his things. Right now, on May 14, 2012, the factory was impounded, they stopped production, they're waiting for customers to sell the business, but here, dear friends, the fate of 200 workers is unaccounted for. It's not known what kind of contract the workers' rights were handed over during the period, unfortunately it's not known whether or not their severance pay will be paid. We'd like to know how to solve the problems of our friends who are members of the TEXIF Union, which of our colleagues A and B will deal with. I would also like to say that we are expecting help from our Minister -- who is now a member of Urban Congress -- but because he knows what is happening here -- that our fellow workers are currently on strike from May 14th. Dear friends, there was only one change in this motion, but unfortunately, does the government immediately agree? What's the word? ▪ Jobs are halted in the entire workplace. • Why? If there's any problems with a building at work with chemical waste, if it's a life-threatening threat, why stop it here in part? When you've partially stopped it, you'll know that all that trouble at work is not going to be taken care of. So I'd like to say that in order for these problems to be resolved at this workplace, this substance has to be this way and that business must be stopped completely at work. And finally -- I'm an agricultural high-engineer -- we want to know why workers in the agricultural sector -- who contribute 25 per cent to jobs in agriculture today and contribute 9 per cent to illegal domestic product -- are not covered. Not just about these farm workers, but also about these farm workers, temporarily considering how difficult the working conditions of these friends are, and what conditions they're made under, the need for this safety code to be done... Our friends, Mr. Izzet and other friends, are asking questions while the Minister has found them. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Well, we've made it into the transcripts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0177par0195	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 26th, number 1/277. We propose and propose that the amount of punishment in a, b, c, c, c, d, e, f, g,, h, i, i, j, k, l, m, n will be increased to four times each. With all due respect. Oğuz Oyan Nurettin Iron Süleyman Çelebi Dr. Izzet Cetin of Güyüker Uður Bayraktu Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0178par0211	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0177par0212	Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0179par0214	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers that we talked about came to our attention here in 2003, as the Business Act, as part of the fifth part of it. Since 2003, this arrangement is in effect, but we have passed through a period of year 2000 in Turkey where business accidents have increased during an entire AKP period, and occupational illness has increased, and unfortunately, it has not been successful. All our reviews at the time have been justified once again. Now, actually, there are several structural reasons at the root of the issue. One is the contradiction between the cost of maxing capital in Turkey, as in capitalist countries across the world, and the ambition to maximumise capital, and the cost of preventing occupational safety and occupational illness. This contradiction, this conflict, if not the organization of the labor force, is resolved in favor of capital. Hence, the practice here in Turkey, especially the practice that goes through the philosophy of creating cheap labor, has further fueled and further riveted this point. Therefore, the priority here is either to master the system somehow or to train the employer. First of all, it's about connecting it to sanctions, allowing the employer to train the employer, of course, to think about the training of the worker depending on it. The second issue is to bring institutional structure to an adequate level. So completing the lack of legal guarantees, not obstructing organizational rights, unionization rights, on the contrary, support is, therefore, solving a fundamental problem area of job safety and occupational illness. The third problem area is subcontractorization, unregistered employment, and the proportions in Turkey are very high. Without preventing this, there is very little chance of reducing business accidents with legal regulations in Turkey without preventing it from being registered. There's nothing the bill can bring us in on this. The fourth is the lack of protective and preventive services and equipment. Working hours in Turkey are very long, a very important reason for business accidents. In Turkey, the worker is not given training during working hours because the employer only thinks about labour efficiency there, although it may be wrong if he thinks long-term. There is not enough supervision, sufficient measures for an adequate worker, and the fear of losing the job is very dominant. Look, the Turkish Airlines strike... which was actually a direct intervention in business relations here. If it wasn't for this, it wouldn't have happened, but, see, in Turkey, occupational security is not only in the working conditions, but also in the conditions that regulate the working conditions, from here, through the legislature, and today 305 of our friends have lost their jobs. The fear of losing his job is one of the main factors that prevents the worker from taking precautions, and it is the lawmaker who is responsible for it, the AKP ruling here. Fifth, it's a lack of control and deterrent. He's got a serious control problem. 28,000 businesses are currently under control and cannot be properly inspected. Now here, with this arrangement, it goes up to 1 million 426 thousand. How are you going to do that? What mechanisms will you do, and what deterrent will you create? Our motion here stipulates that the administrative fines will be increased fourfold to increase this deterrent, in case it's useful. And let's also say that the increasing marketment of this audit is a new element of insecurity, a new door for a runt. You have to give up this idea of marketing. There is no such demand for EU integration or the ILO contract. So there's no point, there's no way, there's no point, there's no point, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's no way, there's That's why I think this bill is incomplete, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0180par0223	Thank you. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The commission has a request for a review, please. Mr. President, for every employee who has failed to meet the obligations set out in the seventh and seventh jokes, I demand that the second sentence of the second joke be changed in the form of a thousand Turkish liras for each employee and again, because of the financial and financial error, because of the financial error of the second joke, the second one (g) can be highly regulated, and the second sentence of the second sentence can be changed in the form of a sentence on behalf of the public organization. I'll buy it. I submit the item to your votes along with the redaction: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 27 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 27th, number 1/277. We offer and propose the removal of Article 3 of the article. With all due respect. Dr. Glorified by Souleyman - Mighty Skymen Reminder Mosa Pine Levent Gök of Uður Flag Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0181par0242	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0180par0243	Kadir Öğüt wants to speak on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0182par0245	Dear lawmakers, I'm going to address the motion that we made for Article 27 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Number 277. But first, I wish God's mercy to our eight soldiers who were killed in the battle in the Dağlıca region of Hakkari, and to our relatives and to our nation's wounded soldiers with patience and urgent healing. I'm sorry for the loss of our country. The permanent end of terror is our greatest desire. I also wish God's mercy to our citizens who burned to death in Urbana, and my condolences to their relatives. Precious lawmakers are among the most important groups of health workers when they are called occupational safety and health. Health workers who are forced to be devalued by the AKP's rule serve under extremely negative circumstances. Performance practices have brought down the quality of the ministry, causing negativeness on health and health of health workers. The results show that there are serious problems with care and care. In addition, patients pile up and the results lead to the beating of health workers, sometimes deaths. Doctors have to work day and night. For example, at oral and dental clinics, a dentist looks at 30 to 60 patients initiativeally. World standards require a 15-18-integration procedure. Doctors face serious psychological and physical health problems. A study of the national data system found that healthcare workers and other employees have been met with health problems, acute and chronic problems higher among health workers. In their skeletal systems, pathology is very high, and because of work environments and workloads, they are the top of the most risky profession groups. A special study group belonging to this group must be formed. A health care unit must be established to reduce risks. Again, undergraduates in dentistry are working in the mouth of patients, facing all kinds of risks, and in return, the income is not even included in the social security system. They don't have health insurance. Our students who have a PhD in the faculty work without pay or health insurance, even though they are heavily ill, and there are no job descriptions at the clinic. Another important problem is that no longer subject to any tests, medical school seniors -- the intern doctors -- have full-time patients -- have no economic and no health insurance. Again, nurses and nurses face the same problems. To deal with these problems, you have to organize and unionize, but the obstacles to unionisation and the pressure on public employees are unfortunately preventing organisation. Again, the difficult conditions of dentists who serve dentists very importantly are pathetic. Three dental technicians recently died of silicone disease. One of our brothers started working at the age of sixteen and died at the age of nineteen. Our other loss was twenty-four years old. We also have dozens of friends who are fighting silicone disease. The reason is that there's no base price on the purchases of contracts. The company that took the job employs employees under extremely negative conditions, and lab inspections aren't done enough. The materials used have no standards, no analysis. The working hours, which should be seven and a half hours a day, are extended until the end of work. Air vents are inadequate, health scans are incomplete, medical reports are paid. The scan should be free and more comprehensive. Occupational training is inadequate. There's no margin for early retirement and wear and tear. Resanction must be made, technical standards of labs that participate in oral and dental tenders must be upgraded. I bid you all good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0183par0254	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on Article 28 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current number (1/277) is 28 of the Business Health and Safety Bill. We propose and propose that Article (1) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Moses Pine Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi" Mehmet S. Kesımoğlu Uğur Bayraktutan İzzet Cetin (1) There is no alcohol or drug use at work. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0184par0271	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0183par0272	Ahmet Silver, Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0185par0274	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, members of lawmakers, business accidents are increasing every year when we look at official numbers, especially in the last decade, we've lost almost 11,000 people in business accidents. That's an average death rate of 1,100 a year, 100 a month, 3 or 4 people a day. This painting is not something to brag about. Sadly, some ministers, lawmakers, and bureaucrats boast of this painting. Remember, what did they say? ▪ How well they died. Fate, fate. We've seen those who call it fate. Under the circumstances, of course, there's nothing more to it than a commitment. Even the bodies of our workers who lost their lives in the accident continue to display insensitiveness in our country, where there are accidents that can't be reached. I can't believe it. Intimacy is nothing more than a delusion to freeze a man's blood. Looking at the business accidents that have resulted in death in recent years, we should be able to better understand the grim picture of business accidents in our country. See, on February 11, 2011, 10 of our workers lost their lives and the bodies of our workers under the collapse were not removed as a result of a landslide in the coal field in Afshin district of Kahramanmarash. The explosion at the heromarash denim sand factory left four workers dead, nine workers injured. In 2008, 23 workers were killed by an explosion at an illegal workplace in Istanbul, 11 workers working on a shopping mall construction site in Esenyurt have died in the fire while they were sleeping at the construction site. Five workers were killed in the business accident in Elazığ, and 20 workers were killed in 2011 as a result of a boiler explosion in the Ankara Ostim industrial region. Job accidents in salt shipyards that result in endless deaths continue without slowing down. Business accidents in the mines continue the same way. Some say that these deaths are now being welcomed as a normal event. This horrible and serious picture, which is heartbreaking, is unfortunately the result of the indiscriminate policies and practices of the AKP's Authority. The length of unregistered working conditions, unregistered working and working hours, which continue to continue day after day, is at the top of the factors leading to the fatality of business accidents. In recent years, condensed subcontractorship practices also invite business accidents. Business accidents have been seen as a result of murder by employing cheap, illegal, and unsecured labor workers, with the rules of labour health and occupational safety being disregarded. However, the lack of measures for health and job safety, the lack of sufficient supervision and sanctions, has caused these murders to increase. Instead of auditing, taking precautions, the AKP has removed licenses for shipyards, especially in Tuzla, which have resulted in deaths in recent years. The reason is to protect international competition and support employers in the shipbuilding industry. We also see similar practices in mining and construction. Our country is in charge of business accidents in these sectors. Instead of taking precautions against business accidents in these sectors, the Ministry of Labor has eliminated this practice through inspectors. When we look at occupational illness in our country, we see that the situation is not very good, the sad picture. Let us not be misled by the numerical images of occupational diseases, an important issue of labour health and safety, because there is not yet a comprehensive record system in our country that is not taken seriously by occupational illness. In addition to our human loss, business accidents and occupational disorders cost our country's economy trillions of dollars each year. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Many accepted occupational diseases in the world have not been widely accepted by our country. What does the AKP government do when medical facilities must be opened and medical facilities must be first provided to deal effectively with occupational illness? He cuts the resources of hospitals in Ankara and Istanbul, which serve for occupational illness. He takes away his job to diagnose occupational illness, saying, "Do not identify occupational diseases. " Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0186par0292	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 29 that I read and process: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Job Health and Safety Bill 29th, number 1/277. The employer, who has an obligation to write a safety report on the 2nd article, can open up the contents and competencies of their security reports by the Ministry and the relevant trade organisations to run their businesses. We propose and order to change them. With all due respect. Dr. "Glory to the Heart" "Solomon Çelebi Turgut Dibek" Musa Pine Uğur Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0187par0308	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0186par0309	Speaking on the motion, Turgut Dibek is a Cyclarian MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0188par0311	Dear friends, I have received our pledge on the 29th Amendment. First of all, I salute you with respect. We just got a call from our citizens. A citizen said something interesting, I'll let you know. He's following the assembly, he says: "You're discussing the law of occupational health and safety, but I want you to talk about what's going to happen to our children's health and the safety of our country." The point that our citizens are actually sensitive is that right now, after the time we've been through, terrorists are walking around, they're martyring our children, they're leaving, they're leaving; what does this country mean that you're talking about when it's unsafe, and what you're talking about before it's safe? As we were just talking, it wasn't relevant... maybe our friends could say: "Ya, Congressman, what did you say?" Of course, there was no time left. I mean, I told him about Urbana, about that prison, about the events there, and about the general situation of Urbana. What was the connection? The connection was, let me put it in one sentence: look, you're trying to get into politics in such a way that you need people there for $16. Those people don't make them there, those people don't win. There's water, there's dirt. In Suruç, people say that we want to produce. Bring us water. You don't bring water. I said, you're going at an ant speed. So the GAP will serve with eight in that area, and you say no. You think of it as a voting warehouse. 670,000 people in Urbana, with green cards, 670,000 dear friends. There are 10 AKP MPs among you. 45% of the population is green-carded. That system generates crime. After that crime, when you put people in prison, or rather, you can't raise prisons to put people in. That's what I tried to tell you. It's not just for Urbana, it's for every province. Give up that understanding. I believe in Mr. Secretary's sincerity, I do. I mean, he means well, he means well. But, dear friends, if those people produce, I mean, if economic relations change, if they win, maybe your votes can go with it, that's another matter, but Turkey will win. I mean, that's what I meant. Now, what I want to say about the law, or rather the matter, is that our friends are telling me about it, and I'm also getting attention, and you're questioning why we're always the leader of these business accidents, mortal accidents, injured accidents, leaders of Europe? What's underlying it? The numbers are very striking. Everybody says it, I'll say it again. So you're... Today I'm watching the Minister of Justice on TV, and he says: "You've been in power for ten years... with problems from the past." I wonder if the Minister says the same thing. So it's stuff from the past? For ten years, friends, you've been running this country. If you can't manage it, you will, but you can't say 1,100 people a year, if these people die in business accidents, I'm talking about official numbers. Our friends make it. I mean, they're more expert. And they're working in very good faith. Three people die a day, three people a day. We're talking about people with insurance registered to this social security. Other than that, you don't know them, and neither do I. 11,000 people died in ten years in your power. What did he die of? What's underlying it? So we're trying to compete with Europe, and we're trying to compete with them. Seven times the averages of European countries are our fatal accidents or business accidents, seven times the number. What's under there? Have our friends ever thought about it? In fact, Mr. Secretary, how does the government feel about this? You could say, yeah, look, we're on our way. So far we've had no separate laws, a law on health and safety at work. So far, we've been operating under regulations. Mr. Hajji has just stated that there is a law, there is a law, there is a Business Law, in 2003, there are relevant parts of it. You could say it's gonna be okay from now on. But, dear friends, with understanding, with the Minister of Justice's understanding, nothing will improve. Our Minister of Justice, we're working for the Commission -- maybe it's a matter of good faith, separately. If things were to be resolved in good faith, it would all be solved- what does he say? If problems are resolved with my resignation, I must resign immediately. You quit, there'll be at least 10 guys from the AKP Group here to do it, don't worry. I want people to know that if this goes wrong, if there's a fire in the prisons, the Minister of Justice will resign. Believe me, those fires don't happen, they don't happen, they don't happen. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0189par0323	Thank you. The Minister has a brief request for a statement. In accordance with the 60th Amendment of the Civil Code, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0326	Mr. President, now, every orator on the stand, our dear congressman friends -- you know, one word -- we've been in the third place in terms of business health, safety in the world since it started as if a madman threw a rock into a well -- so I don't know where this came from, and I don't know where it came from, and I don't know where it came from, and I don't know who threw it into the well, and who threw it into the well, and who didn't know? I don't know if this came from a newspaper.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0327	It's in international documents.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0328	No, excuse me. I'd like to ask: do you have any idea how many people died in business accidents in Iraq?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0330	Are you comparing Turkey to Iraq? It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0331	Is there any in China? Are there any African countries involved? Is there one in South America? Is there any data on Pakistan?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0332	It's in international documents.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0333	Did we get data on Bangladesh? So as many Africans as you can count, Far East, Middle East, Central Asia.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0334	He went back to them during your Ministry. The world has banned labor for hire, and you...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0335	So there's a pollution of information, that's what I'm trying to tell you, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0336	You have brought slavery, slavery!
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0337	I'm answering a question, Mr. Izzet.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0338	But you brought slavery, is there slavery in this age?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0339	I'm saying something else. So there's data in this data, and we're saying that it's the third one. There's no such thing, guys.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0191par0340	We'll see it in Article 32.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0341	That's not accurate information. So I made a promise to fix it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0192par0343	Give me the real numbers, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0190par0344	And finally, let me say that there is a great change, a great transformation. I'd like you to leave often, and I'd very much like you to see that change better. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0193par0346	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 30 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 30 of Business Health and Safety Bill number 1/277. We propose that the first joke (b) bendi bendi (2), (3), (4) and (5) bents will be replaced in addition. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Other health care personnel besides occupational health and safety departments, occupational health and safety departments, occupational safety, specialists, and occupational physicians, their qualifications, employment, assignments, mandates and responsibilities, how to conduct their duties, the number of hazards at work, and the minimum working hours at workplaces, how to report the dangerous issues at their workplaces and how to suspend or cancel their documents, or cancel their documents. 3) Abolition of the services to provide occupational health and safety services, documents, documentation and obligations, cancellation of documents and competencies, health care care and health reports under the services to be served, the auditing of these institutions and the dissolution of their documents, or the cancellation of their documents, 4) According to the number of occupational hazard classes and employees, the number of people offering occupational health and safety services will be provided at work, 5) In addition to occupational physicians, occupational safety specialists and occupational staffs other than occupational staffs, training, documentation and registrations, documents they have, which are required to be employed at their workplaces; in accordance with the suspension of the documents of occupational physicians, occupational safety specialists and occupational staff who will provide training and training staff training, the documentation of documentation and documentation of the institutions that will be carried out at the end of the examinations, the authorization of the documents and the regulations of those institutions that will be issued, and the regulations and the regulations of those who will be employed in these programmes. The regulation on occupational physicians and other health staff provides the appropriate opinion of the Ministry of Health and the Union of Turkish Medicine and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Union of Turkish Architects and Engineers in the regulation on occupational safety experts. If conditions for the release of the documents of occupational physicians and occupational safety professionals are lost, the services and educational institutions will be suspended or cancelled by the Ministry in case the conditions for documents or authorization have been lost. (3) Continuous education in this article is planned as training, which has been extended to a period of time and is completed with a certain score of credit collection. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0194par0367	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0193par0368	Mosa Çam, İzmir MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0195par0370	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, members of our House, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on Article 30 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Act 277. Unfortunately, Mr. Commission and Mr. Secretary -- none of the motions we've made so far. So I'd like to go a little bit further than that and make a few statements about the Turkish Airlines strike that Mr. Minister just gave. As you know, Turkish Airlines has recently been taken under the scope of the strike ban. In fact, as we discussed this in the Interior Commission, we told Mr. President of the Interior Commission that the ban on Grev is not the matter of the Interior Minister. We don't find it right to meet with the Internal Affairs Commission when health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission should be discussed. Please send this to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. Send the issue of firefighters in the same way to the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. Despite all our warnings, Minister of Labour and Social Security Mr. Faruk Çelik was disabled and discussed in the Interior Commission overnight and was legalized here. Friends, we also warned the Internal Affairs Commission that the law of collective relations is coming, so bring it there, we'll discuss it there, we'll talk there. We said, "You didn't listen again." The Board of Ministers has the authority to postpone the strike, he has the right to do so. Despite our warnings, unfortunately, you have brought the biggest business accident, and you have terminated the business contract of 305 of our friends in Turkish Airlines. And that's a big success, so I'm celebrating the government and the government! Now, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Metin Ashünk, our friend who has submitted this motion, is starting to assemble this item, which he has brought you in and passed you by ignoring you, which he has imposed on you. He writes in the corner of Mr. Metin Ashunk, which brings up the proposal for the law, on June 9th: "This CHY is being sent to the THY administration, and he is now starting to take over this CHY administration, where the people who have proposed the provision of the provision of the law, which he has now submitted to our friend, Metin Ashunk. Again, on 1 June 2012, I read to you from a report by Üssal Ereke. The MP Metin Ashunk, who owns the ban on the strike in Aviation, supports his schoolmate Burhan Kocafa, which he developed and sold to Turkish Airlines, by collecting CVs from his website. It has been learned that AK PARTI İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk, who currently uses Turkish Airlines and reduces the recruitment process in two days, has established the Empathic Human Resources President Burhan Kobak, who ended the strike ban on aviation, has established the system with support from Metin Ashünk, who added the bag to the law at the last minute. It has been learned that Turkish Airlines has used it for two years to evaluate 26,875 people in October 2009 and May 2011, which has shortened the hiring process for employees that had previously been a year. Turkish Airlines later bought the system from Empathic. Since he is a deputy, there are private sector companies who want jobs as much as there are citizens who want to discipline Metin Ashünk. To that end, we launched a human resources project nine months ago with the empathic company of a friend of mine, Burhan Husband, who I knew from college. He said, "I discipline these applications on my website." Ashunk, who noted that one of the problems they face because he's a congressman, was in need of employment, said: "You can appreciate that the political institution is unconditionally involved in all the problems of the citizen. Every citizen we come across has a reference system in this country to contribute to the request for employment. When a company hires a man, will you evaluate this brother? He says I have the right to call him. He gets 305 people fired, but he also collects CVs through a company to hire people, and he contributes to the hiring of those people by sending them to Turkish Airlines.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0196par0382	He's a real piece of work.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0195par0383	Now, is that justice, friends? You're going to get the people who fight for him fired because he's protecting his right to work, and then you're going to collect a company CV and send them to the Turkish Airways administration, and you're going to broker the hiring of those people. That's what our Justice and Development Party friend, who's called Justice and Development, has done. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0197par0386	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on Article 31: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit or propose that the declaration be added directly or directly after the declaration of the validity of the executive documents passed under Article 31 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Number 277 which is currently in session. Recep from Nurettin Canikli Special Ramadan Can Muzafer Citizen Pelin Günış Bakır Mehmet Erdogan Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 31st of Business Health and Safety Bill number 1/277. We propose and propose that the Article be removed from the Charter text. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0198par0406	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0197par0407	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0199par0409	Mr. President, from 2007 to 2012, 500 workers died in our Tuzla shipyards. In February 2012, 10 of our workers were flooded by the explosion of the dam cover in Adana Kozan. Six workers were killed in Elaziğ Mine district, six workers injured. 11 workers who worked in the construction of the Esenyurt mall burned to death in the tent while they were asleep. On April 3, 2012, five TEDAS officers were frozen to death by freezing to repair the electric pole inside Erzurum Ashkale Karasu Dam Lake. Osman Buddha, who worked at a special coal mine in my district of Tekirdağ Malkara, lost his life in the current of the electric cable left open outside. Tekirdağ, also in the industrial city, unfortunately is a busy town of business accidents. In the mines, business accidents continue without slowing down. In May 2010, the Prime Minister said it was normal in mining for the death of 30 miners in Zonguldak. But Chile, which was our destiny, was not fate. 700 meters below ground, sixty-nine days later, 33 miners were rescued. Sadly, from the cave in of Marash, the bodies of our fellow workers have not been removed. On June 14th, last Thursday, when he spoke at the General Assembly about occupational health, occupational security, right next to us, he died in the eyes of Nadir Kekilli, who was 24 years old, preparing for marriage. Yes, in our country, where 1,100 workers die a year in a business accident, this painful, frightening painting state, the world's 16th largest economy, the national income per capita, is not spoken of, but of the reality of our country, which boasts that $10,444. Many speakers, of course, gave me the dates, the facts, the numbers, but I wanted to repeat them once again, just to remind you, just to remember, in order to learn, because business accidents are really a social thing. Workers are not the cause of business accidents, they are the vulnerable side. Since the value of the worker is measured by the price of his labor, the right of the worker to live as a human is unfortunately not considered in the process of producing. The main reason for this negative table is that occupational health, occupational safety measures are treated as an additional cost factor by an overwhelming majority of employers, that the rules are not followed, that there are no unions in the workplace, that the workplace is not supervised. Under unemployment, poverty, poverty, union-free, unsecured, flexible, forced to work off the books, the working class dies every day, fires fall every day, and it appears that it will continue to fall. Because instead of creating a policy on taking effective measures, the current government is predicating an understanding of leaving occupational health and occupational security services on the free market. Clearly, a country that does not know the value of human hard work and health will not thrive in any field. The responsibility of the employer and state cannot be limited only by giving work to its people, but also by providing conditions, health conditions, and security in the working environment. So the solution to the problem can't be achieved just by taking medical and technical precautions at workplaces, so it can't be compressed into a narrow frame. In this sense, occupational health care should not be cut off from common issues. In a more explicit way, the interest of capital is clearly contrary to the universal values of humanity, which are above the interests of the entire community. Dear friends, in occupational health, occupational safety services, it's important that that person be presented at work, as employees of the office, because occupational medicine, occupational safety expertise, is a professional job because working life is as serious as dynamic risks. Occupational health, safety specialists, workplace physicians need to work there, where workers live, or even do what they do; the dynamic-producing field and parallel-changing risks must follow the worker, the job. You can't keep an eye on what's going on inside the house. Thus, the current bill took out workplace physicians, occupational safety specialists, prevented the establishment of health care at work, and importantly, pushed out those who would, in the first place, live that responsibility, do it. In particular, occupational rooms, occupational safety professionals, occupational physicians, workplace nurses, health workers were taken out. It needs to be done again, especially because the contribution of vocational rooms in this area is undisputed. Let's kill him, but let's not lose him. And in that sense, I say, let's not get political, I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0200par0422	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit or propose that the declaration be added directly or directly after the declaration of the validity of the executive documents passed under Article 31 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Number 277 which is currently in session. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you the proper opinion. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0201par0431	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0200par0432	I'm having it read. As a result of the verbs performed by people serving ISG, the determination of responsibilities has been strengthened. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. On Article 32 (a) there is a motion, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of Business Health and Safety Charter (a) be removed from the draft text and that other dams be identified accordingly. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0202par0450	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0200par0451	Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0203par0453	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, our Minister has just said that we will make important arrangements for the establishments of employment. May God protect the workers from the wrath of the AKP. What can I say? If that's the arrangement, it's bad from now on. See, I came up with three pamphlets: One is Job Act 4857, one is Parliamentary Report 15/3/2003, and the other is today's 277 rows. Here, the last sentence of Article 32 (a) of the last Business Law (a) has been changed in the following way. So a short text was removed from the last sentence. The printed text is obliged to provide the worker with the necessary training for health and safety risks. Employer. So you're going to approve saving the employer's laborer from his training debt in a moment, if you vote. My dear friends, it's basically the last sentence of Article 7 of Article (1). What is the 7th article of the Employment Law? The way he first came to the House, hired labor, borrowed business. Article 4857 was later translated into a temporary business relationship with the monopolitan talks in 2003. We're preparing for the Minister of your National Employment Strategy Document of employers, which he says will be fine. In the document he says, you will now restore the order of slavery, the working conditions of the Middle Ages, to Turkey. After that, the minister says, "Where do you find these? " Either the Minister is deceiving the experts, deceiving the bureaucrats, or the Minister really doesn't know what he's doing. Look, these are in the House's transcripts, so I brought them here, and you can have them. Rental labor is essentially two places to find valuable friends. One of them, an employer named August Borsig, is in a machine factory in Berlin, Germany, and in 1837, when he fails to finish the work at the machine factory, he hires soldiers from the Prussian army to complete his labor and enter into that way. The second is in Mecklelle, the Ottoman, the man for hire. Who's renting it? The employer can rent another employer, a worker, as a slave. He can also boast that we will do good things in order to arrange it. It is shameful, it is sinful. Really, private employment offices are appropriate to hire workers, to re-embarrass hire workers, to re-employ them from 4857, even to see them as cost-effective elements at his workplace, to reduce the employer's training, to adapt him to certain working conditions, to delegate him from the law, and only to allow him to employ workers in the slave system. It's a shame, it's a sin. Tomorrow your children may be workers, and your grandchildren may be workers, and may be children of those who say yes. My dear friends, don't kill people so much, don't let them work like slaves. I mean, the Minister doesn't know what he's talking about. The minister knows that 10,000 people have died in nine years -- not even off the record -- but you all know how you find it. If that's the way the working system works, if the workers are unguarded, unsecured, without security, especially if the employers are left at the mercy of the overachieving employers. And this law will probably come back from the Constitutional Court in a large way, because you're going to leave a lot of things to the regulations that have to be done with regulations, and you've left them. And you did it on purpose to get him to come back again. At least in this article, I say don't let that joke get out, I give you all love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0204par0463	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. On Article 32 (b) there is a motion, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 32, number 1/277. We propose and propose that the clause (b) be removed from the draft text. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Gürkut Acar Levent Gök Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0205par0479	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0204par0480	Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0206par0482	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on Article 32/b of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety 277, and I salute you. Dear friends, I'm having a hard time understanding this arrangement, so everyone drinks and drinks and goes to work like they're out of control? Is there an explosion in this area? There's a law, which is the same as this law twice, which is impossible to understand. There is a ban on substance abuse with Article 28, and you have forbidden to come to work drunk. It's not enough, it's also a provision of 32, so let's get him out of the job without any hesitation or notice. Another item is being brought in. So, there is a right to act contrary to Article 84, which is entitled the right to immediate termination of Article 4857. What does Article 84 say, my friends? ▪ It is forbidden to come to work drunk or on drugs and to use alcohol or drugs at work. It is already available, which means there is a ban on the Employment Law. That's not enough, this law is being added to a separate title. That's not enough, and this sentence is added to Article 32. There's no way to figure that out. Wasn't the judgment in the Employment Law sufficient for unresolved, unregistered layoffs, which is put twice in the law? I don't think that's enough. Let's make such a judgment in every law, dear friends. We're getting to the point where it doesn't make any sense. The concept of drunkenness is a vague concept, as noted in our proposal for change. What's the limit of drunkenness? Is there such a measure scientifically? So when someone comes to work the next day to have a drink or two with a friend one evening, can they be considered drunk or not? When it comes to court, what will the judgment be based on? So every employer, like the traffic cop, is going to measure it with a breathalyzer? He's going to dump the contract of employment, and then he's going to add this report to his back? Is there a measure of this? Or are there going to be breathalyzers in occupational health cabinets or medicine cabinets at work? Or will he keep the workers with him himself? If this sentence remains, perhaps it should be considered that a sentence be added here. Dear friends -- as I mentioned before -- each arrangement is imposed on a mind world, a mind structure, and I draw your attention to it. This sentence is one of them. Millions of people in the country are unemployed, thousands of people have lost hope of finding jobs. Teachers commit suicide because they can't be appointed. While this is the painting, the law is set up as if everyone is going to work drunk while people are looking for a job to hold on to. There's already an arrangement about this, but I want this written all over the place, so that this understanding is constantly highlighted so that your own mind world can be settled in the subconscious of all citizens. Dear friends, see, the red zones are on the agenda of the AKP Powers. Picnic areas are widely banned from alcohol at their workplaces every day. One step beyond that, I suppose tourists will also be banned. It's not possible to understand it or accept it. For these reasons, I look forward to your support for the acceptance of our motion, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0207par0490	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. On Article 32 (c) bendi (c) there is a motion, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 32, number 1/277. We propose and propose that the clause (c) be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Young people who have aged 16 and have not aged 18 are forbidden to work in heavy and dangerous jobs Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu Uğur Bayraktutan Dr. Glorify From the Heart Suleiman Çelebi İzzet Cetin Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0208par0507	Mr. President, the Hatibine's assessment just made a very different assessment of the substance as a result of its lack of real understanding. Again, in the motion that was made earlier, a new clause was introduced, even though it was the arrangement of how to set up the future in the workplace. However, the 28th article states that it is forbidden to come to work drunk or on drugs and to use alcohol or drugs at work. It is recommended that you do not come to work drunk. It is called. There's already an arrangement. E is now being removed from Article 84 in the Employment Act. Instead, the 25th article referred to is in the Employment Act. The decrees that have been lifted there are addressed to Article 25, meaning the gap in the right termination of your employer is carried to Article 25. When it's not understood, it's presented as if something very different was being done. That's why we can't agree to these motions. I'm afraid I have to say that there are no proposals for a very healthy study. Here, we all have the right to speak, and I respect it, but it's such an introduction that I have to make this correction because it's presented as if there's been some serious, big mistake. We can't agree to the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0209par0511	Thank you. Mehmet Ali Editoglu, Hatay MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0210par0514	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on Article 32 (c) of Bill 277. I salute you all. As it is known, the right to work at the end of human history is considered basic human rights. The state is responsible for the cleansing of the workplace and maintaining its rights, for the effects that would affect the employee's body integrity and health. In our country, there are an average of 160 work accidents per day. In these accidents, four people die every day, five are disabled, and unfortunately, there are no serious precautions. If the Prime Minister of this country can answer to employees demanding that the working conditions be raised to international Labour Organization standards, there are many unemployed people working under these conditions, there are many. There are insincereness, insensitivity, and aiding in the killings of mortal jobs. Our country is worth more than 7 times its average business accident because of AKP's policies in favour of capital, which eliminate workers. The main reason behind the climbing of business accidents in our country is the rapid spread of unconstitutional, unsecured, unsubstantiated, unregistered and unregistered working styles. Increased business accidents are also the result of AKP's sense of rant-oriented economic growth. For example, the annual income per capita exceeds $10,000, but the absence of those figures to workers, civil servants, pensioners, widows and orphans is a concrete indication of growth for the proportionists. In contrast, we propose a new model of economic growth based on production and rightfulness. Subcontractorization has reached extreme levels, and most importantly, internal control has been eliminated. In addition, the government has lifted the Charter of Labour Health and Safety. As a result, in order to achieve sufficient and lasting results in the field of labour health and occupational safety, a systematic policy is also mandatory with a different approach at a national level, aimed at preventing accidents, disease, or other health-related problems. This approach, which will strive to reduce danger and risk to a minimum, will reduce the destruction caused by accidents and diseases, and improve business environments and conditions. If the bill is adopted in this manner, it will not be possible for employees to solve problems in the field of health and safety and to achieve desired norms, and it will also cause problems to deepen. Dear lawmakers, the economic and utilitarian approach to the health and safety of employees should be abandoned, and the health and safety of employees should be restructured in a framework reflecting the opinions of NGOs. In the arrangement, the health and safety of the workers and the public must be placed at the centre, and the ties of business physicians and occupational safety experts, who are the key to the system, must also be strengthened. In addition, regulations on the working conditions of heavy and dangerous jobs are requested to be removed completely. As a result, it will pave the way for women and children under the age of eighteen to do heavy and dangerous work. Respected MPs, there are 988,000 child workers in Turkey, according to a survey by the DİSK again. A study conducted last year reveals that 630,000 child workers worked under heavy conditions in Turkey. These figures also show that the number of child workers is increasing rapidly in our country. In fact, the 4+4+4 Law predicts that the number of child workers will increase further. In addition, Turkey also sided with Turkey, which was adopted in 1999, in order to eliminate the worst conditions for child labor in the world, and in that framework, under 15 years of age was banned from working in our country. However, it is also known that all under 18 years of age are considered children according to the 1st article of the Convention on Children's Rights. Therefore, under 18 years of age, in fact, no child should be present in the working environment. However, it is known that in Turkey, especially in seasonal agriculture and small businesses, children are constantly employed. Children who work on the street are ignored, just like in third world countries. Child labor workers are the most exposed to labour exploitation because almost all of them are working without insurance and are preferred as a cheap labor force. It seems that despite all the lives we've lost and the loss of our health, the health and safety of workers, the pressure of capital and the ambition of subcontractors. Again, the spirit of this bill is more profit and profit. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0211par0524	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0212par0527	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0211par0528	I'll submit the motion to your votes, but there's a call request, and I'll carry it out. Mr. Celebi, Mr. Şelebi, Mr. Şelebi, Mr. Onur, Mr. Ediboğlu, Mr. Oyan, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Öz, Mr. Kuğeli, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Güven, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Külturk, Mr. Serker, Mr. Fırat. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is a motion in Article 33: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Business Health and Safety Charter 33, number 1/277. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Bornt Kuşoğlu Musa Pine Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0213par0553	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0211par0554	Bkent Kuşoğlu, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0214par0556	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to a motion on Article 33 of the Law on Occupational Health and Safety Number 277. I'd like to point out to you, dear lawmakers. Now, this law is about all the businesses in Turkey. How many businesses do they have in Turkey? Is there anyone who can answer that? I'll read some numbers: there are 1,491,000 businesses in April 2012, according to the Social Security Agency. The number of traders belonging to TESK is 1,985K on this date. According to Treasury records, there are only 2 million 314,000 VAT taxpayers. Each VAT is a responsible business, at the same time, 2 million 314,000. Companies tax taxpayer 665, income tax taxpayer -- not paid, not paid -- 1 million 729, April. The number of members registered to the Chamber Association is 1,420,000. Look, it's a lot of different numbers. Two million, three hundred thousand to one million, four hundred thousand, about a million. Now, the numbers are so different, we don't know the exact number of businesses, but we're drafting a law that includes all the businesses in Turkey. So there's been some trouble with his preparation. It's about a million, give or take. With such a big difference, it means that we haven't been able to make enough preparations for the workplace physician, for his expert, which means we can't do enough, which means there's going to be a lot of trouble in implementing it. We're in a country where there's no record, it's too big. They reach at least 30 percent, 50 percent. So in addition to that, if you add these, there will be a much greater challenge in implementing them. Now, we need to think before we make these kinds of laws: that the Finance Ministry, the IRS, the Social Security Agency, the Office of Labor, TSE (TİK) and all of them -- all of them are institutions related to workplaces -- should be reported to a joint institution, take a number, take a business number, and that number should apply to all institutions. All institutions need to be able to talk to each other, monitor each other. Right now, the Ministry of Finance and Social Security can't control each other, they don't know each other. Different, right now, the numbers I just read. And I'm afraid there's no chance that such an important new law will succeed from the very beginning. So there's also an inadequacy with the project. Also, there are exceptions and exceptions in Article 2 of the law. Amongst the exceptions, like, last week's painful incident, where do we put the fact that we're living in Urbana Prison? Now, Urbana, all public enterprises and private sectors, including this coverage, including the law, where people are, where they work. Urbana Prison is a place where people work. At least it has to do with the safety of the guards, the officers there, business security. So there's got to be security there about what they're doing. For example, I don't see him in that context. And since I'm not on the commission, I'm really curious. I have a question to ask Mr. Secretary about where he should be, where he should be in this difficult situation with the prisons. Again, there are problems with occupational illness, with Mobbbing. In particular, we face a law that does not cover mental problems or problems. This needs to be covered, as well as the mobbing. There would be a more detailed, beautiful, more successful law. Of course, awareness in education is more important than anything else. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0215par0565	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions in Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose that the provision of Article 34 of the Law on Business Health and Safety shall be changed in the manner shown in addition to this clause. Mustafa Elitaş smurf Ünal Suat Önal On the lists of 34-Ekli (I), (II) and (III), the additional members of the Court of Law (I) were removed from the Department of Labor and Social Security (I), which was added to the Department of Labor and Social Security (IV). PRODUCTION: WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION Class Title Amount GDP Occupational Health and Safety Expert 3 120 120 GDP Occupational Health and Safety Assistant 8 130 130 130 GDP Officer 6 20 20 GDP Officer 1020 GlH Data Prep and Control Management 620 GlH Data Prep and Control Management 1020 TH Engineer 510 PRODUCTION: WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION Class Title Amount GDP Institute of Health and Safety 11 Assistant Director of the Institute for Occupational Health and Safety 13 PRODUCTION: WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION Class Title Amount GlH Count 11 GlH Manager 11 1 GlH Chief 3-2 GlH Data Prep and Control Management 4-2 GlH Data Prep and Control Management 6-5 GlH Treasurer 5 1 1 PRODUCTION: WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION Class Title Amount GİH Institute of Health and Occupational Safety Director 11 GİH Institute of Labour Health and Occupational Safety To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Job Health and Safety Bill 34, number 1/277. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0216par0638	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0215par0639	Muharrem Ilk, MP Erzincan, who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0217par0641	Mr. President, I'm going to discuss our motion on law number 277. I salute you all. Of course, this clause determines personnel who will be assigned to the central staff of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security and to the occupational health and safety departments in connection with the law on occupational health and safety of Article 190. There will be a staff of about 360 people here. Of course, there were changes at the last minute again. With the laws that have already come in recently, and with the laws that are coming in, there have already been over 5,000 new positions. Of course, in our view, do these staffs need to be this open? We think that if people were to be transferred here, especially in what we call the "APK" section, but unfortunately, you also know how to use every opportunity to open new staffs. We believe, of course, that the people who are here, when they're being taken, are definitely the ones who are to be taken. These will slowly be placed in the best places. Of course, here, when you're being picked up, what's important is that the people who were taken are fully competent, that there are people who can do that, because unfortunately, there are a lot of mistakes in the law. And while that's being done, if the people who did it weren't quite enough, then, of course, the law's success would be controversial. Here, we are hoping that there will be no manliness. Of course, where does it come from here? For example, I'll give you an example: the machine technician was hired for a job. Here, at the time of the purchase, the condition of the KPS is said to apply 70 per cent and 30 per cent on the oral exam. 45 people apply here. These 45 people are ranked from the highest to the lowest; the first friend's KPSS score is 93, and the last one in 45 is 62, but of course after the written test is finished... it's not in writing, I'm sorry, it's in KPSS. After the oral exam, there are 62 points for friends here, but two friends who scored 93 points in KPSS have failed to enter. So I went after it a little bit, and I called this agency a lot. The man in charge finally told me, Mr. Regent, enough, you bore me. As he said, he came to the list. We think that's what's going to happen. So, hopefully, it won't be like this anymore. Oh, if you don't want this to be done, if you want this law to be successful, at least take the controllers out of the opposition, a few from the opposition, and the director from the opposition, and half of the staff from the opposition. And tomorrow, when the law fails, you say, "The opposition did it to prevent it." Of course, I had a motion for occupational illness. Of course, most of the motion, or rather, none of it was taken seriously. Here was our goal: I thought that if the job accidents in a country were met with the necessary success of occupational illness, they would also be prevented. Here, the most important thing about occupational illness is the fact that you're looking for insurance. E, it's not logical in our country to seek insurance at a time when there's so much unsecured work and leave these people to die in plain sight. Today we know the condition of the patients in Bingol. Currently, 60 of them are in very bad shape, and 15 to 20 people are living on oxygen. I think we need to take the necessary precautions. Of course, when you're serious about occupational illness, especially in my previous speech -- I couldn't finish -- we have three hospitals -- without performance victims, and their staff needs to be restored to their old days, they need to have reference hospitals, and in every county, whatever disease is more frequent in that area, the polyclinics need to be opened. Because, as far as we can see in the law, it's seen to be left to the family physicians, leaving it to the community health clinic physicians. Today, a family physician was assigned to look at the prisoners there. Unfortunately, we can't solve it by stacking it on family physicians or dumping it on community center physicians. So, first of all, the Medical Offices and the Union of Turkish Architects and Engineers -- I say again -- I think it would be more successful if they were taken seriously and co-ordinated, Mr. Secretary. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0647	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 34 of the Law on Business Health and Safety shall be changed in accordance with this clause, as shown in addition to the additional drafts. Oya Eronat (Diyarbakir) and her friends On the lists of 34-Ekli (I), (II) and (III), the additional members of the Court of Law (I) were removed from the Department of Labor and Social Security (I), which was added to the Department of Labor and Social Security (IV). Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you the proper opinion. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0219par0657	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0658	I'm reading the reason: Since the canceled and imposed staffs belong to the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the clause and additional lists have been considered more appropriate to be changed through this proposal. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0220par0663	Mr. President, this is the second time you've read this motion, but you haven't read the list, the ruler.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0664	We read it in the first place.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0220par0665	The second time you didn't.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0666	I didn't get it read the second time, that's right. It wasn't read because I had it read in the first place.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0220par0667	So you're saying that you don't have a ruler...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0668	We had him read it in the first place. I say so, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0220par0669	Yeah, which one did we vote for, the ruler or the ruler?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0670	We voted the one with the ruler -- we put it in the text as we read it, sir. There are three motions of the same nature on Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendment of Article 35 of Business Health and Safety Law Act number 1/605. Mesut Dedeoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Rusar Demirel Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal The extension of Article 35-190 shall be added in the Department of Labor and Social Security (1) of the ruler's Department of Labor and Social Security; (e.g. the expert on occupational hygiene and health care and health care services) to come after the statement. The accompanying staff has been added to the additional (1) NORMAL ruler. Class Title Degree Free Staff Amount GlH Business Hygiene Expert 177 37 GlH Business Hygiene Expert 4 34 34 34 GlH Business Hygiene Specialist Yard. 7 37 37 Congressmans, the two motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'm going to read these motions and process them together, and I'm going to promise them separately at the request of the motion makers. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that Article 35 of the Law on Business Health and Safety shall be removed from the bill and that the following items be identified accordingly. Mustafa Elitaş smurf Ünal Suat Önal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Big Oya Eronat Dr. From the heart, Sulayman Çelebi Mehmet Hilal Kaplan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Does the Commission agree with the same motions? We're giving it proper consideration, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0221par0703	We agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0218par0704	Mehmet Hilal Kaplan is the MP of Kokueli who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0222par0706	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't know how healthy it is to be here again at this hour in the early hours of the day, but I commend you, I salute your grand delegation. I'd like to address the importance of business medicine and occupational safety experts, one of the main grounds of labour health and occupational safety. I want everyone to know that working health in Turkey is a major work for the Turkish Medical Association. I congratulate the Turkish Medical Association on its efforts to become a separate branch of business medicine by doing a certificate programme for about 30,000 physicians, with a basic training certificate programme that qualifys for vocational functioning in the field of labour health. The main thing about occupational medicine is that it prevents the employee from getting hurt because of the environment he's going to be working in. Although occupational medicine is intended to reduce the burden of hospitals by writing prescriptions, standing up treatments, and medicine is the primary goal. Here's the thing: A physician needs to know how much damage a worker has done in the production stage, in the production stage, in the process of production, and in the processes of harmful materials, so that he can determine whether a worker is suitable for the job, in order to determine whether the work is suitable for the job, in that factory. He needs to know about its light, its moisture, its noise, and its internal emissions in its harmful materials. In the past period, this was the law in workplaces that employ 50 or more workers before the bill was drafted. The workplace physicians were in the factory. They were deciding the employee's conditions, whether he was up to the job or not. For a certain period of time, they were even doing periodic examinations at some workplaces, some for about three months, six months, and a year, to see if there was any damage done by his work. Today's bill was adopted from workplaces between 50 and more, and was introduced in an area outside the factories under the name of the joint health department. It is not possible for the occupational physician or occupational safety expert to take measures for employee health and occupational safety by writing prescriptions on certain days of the week, even during certain hours, without seeing the effects of negatives from production -- outside the factory, who do not know the factory, who do not know the production process -- to be able to do so. With this position, it's not likely to prevent business accidents or occupational illness. With this attitude, you are undermining the practice of medicine. You've turned business practice into a purse shop, if that's what you'd call it. Common health care units... especially in the metropolitan areas, where some friends gather in the health department of 4-5 physicians, you see, one or two hours in the village of Eagle in Istanbul, at noon at a workplace in Gebze, evening at Sultanbeyli, he thinks he's working as a business doctor with a blood pressure tool in his hand, a bag man. That's how you reduce the quality of a workplace physician. The workplace physician has to determine whether the temperature, humidity, noise, whether the employee will stay on his feet for long, whether or not he will be exposed to humidity or noise. You know, it's important to take precautions, especially when certain diseases occur. Business medicine is of no importance after the disease has formed. For example, long - term work in an environment above 80 decibels will cause hearing loss. Our goal is to help the worker not to get sick because of the environment he works in, but it comes to the point of going to a health institution after being sick. Because my time is limited, I would like to extend my love and respect to all of you again.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0223par0713	Thank you. Since the 34th and 35th article is being arranged as the 34th article to be merged, it must be removed from the Charter. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are accepted. Members of parliament, I hereby remove the motion of Eskişehir MP Ruzzar Demirel and his friends because the same motions which have just been adopted have been removed from the draft text of Article 35. There's a motion on Article 36 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 36th edition of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. Dr. Dr. Salih Firat Levent Gök Musa Pine Izzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0224par0731	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0223par0732	Salih Firat, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0225par0734	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we have a motion on Article 36 of Law 277. I have made a promise on that motion. Of course, we want the word "worker" to remain in this motion. So our Minister is also a laborer, most of our friends have worked as workers. I think we should all respect what the word "worker" means. The word "employee" should have stayed there. Oh, if the word "worker" was narrow, the word "worker" could be used. Again, we're drafting a law on occupational health and safety, but unfortunately, most of us, including our Commissioner, are physicians... and even our current environment is contrary to business health. We're trying to establish a health-related law in an inappropriate environment, when it's not appropriate. That's definitely wrong. Our Commissioner is a cardiologist, and I respect our teacher, especially when, when, when, when, when, when, they'll explain to us that the rate of sighting of coronary heart disease has risen. As such studies are conducted after this time of night, the risk of heart disease, coronary heart disease, or heart attack will increase in most of us, as most of us are over 35 years old, the risk of heart disease increases. So, anyway, this law is also stated in the application clauses, some in a year, some in two years. And yet, at this hour of the night, we're fast, we're passing a bill full of wrongs, unsolicited, maybe two or three months from now, we'll see some mistakes before we're even in effect, and I think this law will come back to haunt us, hopefully not like this. Why do we say that? See, the 6th article specifically states: "If the employer has a warrant, he can take over the position of a occupational physician and occupational safety expert himself. " The 8th article also states: "If the conditions of working in the workplace are not appropriate, the employer will be warned if the conditions of working in that workplace are bad. If the employer does not correct those conditions, he will complain to the Ministry. So, how will the employer complain if we give him this assignment? Who's he gonna report himself to? How's the minister going to complain? We're making a law that contradicts itself completely. So, we made a motion about him, and unfortunately, he wasn't accepted. Why wasn't it? Because we don't really think about what we call "yes" in this environment. Just by looking at our group presidents or ministers or commissioners, we say, "Yes." Or "No." Friends, do you think the opposition will never bring a positive suggestion? No, we're human, we're working, we have employees. Of course, we work to provide good things for people's work health, and we take it seriously. We're not here to keep you waiting or to make you tired, but we say that in the future when a law is being passed, why did we make this mistake? Look, two more years to go, but we're breaking the law at this time of night. So, again, I'm asking you, let's review this from the top again, when it's early, let's ask the experts, if there's any loose ends, let's complete them, if there's a surplus, but when we break a law, that law can stay in effect for years, and it doesn't need to be changed for years. As our minister just answered some questions, he said: "Sir, Turkey is not in the third place in the world regarding business accidents. This information is wrong. Okay, well, if it's wrong, we asked you for the truth. What number is Turkey in the ranking of business accidents? Today, more than a thousand of our people die from business accidents every year in Turkey. Look, we've been saying that 30 thousand people have died in Turkey in the terrorist event for 30 years. Let's put this fire out. Over 30,000 people died in business accidents in 30 years. That's as important as terror. So let's take this seriously and make a very good law and respect the opposition's opinion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0226par0743	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0227par0745	Mr. President, we demand strike rights, strike rights. It's not working till this late at night! We want strike rights.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0226par0746	I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 37 that I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Business Health and Safety Bill 37, number 1/277. We propose that the clause be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Dr. Melda Onur Çelebi Izzet Cetin Uğur Bayraktuttan Levent Gök Article 2- Turkish Radio-Television Agency and private television companies and local broadcasters, national, regional and local television companies and radios, must publish at least 60 minutes a month of business health and safety, prevention of non-responsibility in working life, union rights, collective contract and strike rights, social security, labour and employers' relations, as well as stimulus and training. These publications are conducted between 8:00 and 10:00 p.m., with a minimum of 30 minutes between 5:00 and 10:00 p.m., and copies of the literature are delivered regularly to the Radio and Television Supreme Council each month. Other than these hours, publications are not included for 60 minutes per month. These programmes are prepared or prepared by the Ministry and its relevant institutions, other public institutions and organisations related to the Radio and Television Supreme Council, and by trade unions, public institutional trade institutions or NGOs. The programmes are provided to be broadcast on radio and television by the Radio and Television Oversight after the ministry's positive opinion is received. No price will be paid for the publications provided under this clause. The audit of these publications and their time is conducted by the Radio and Television Supreme Board. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0228par0763	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0226par0764	Melda Onur, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0229par0766	Mr. President, dear friends, the work and safety law we're discussing, we're afraid that it will maintain and protect what is present so far, and so far the arrangement is not protecting the worker, and it will not protect the worker, because it aims to sustain the work rather than to protect the health and safety of the worker. Under this title, the main idea is that the existence of workers is a gift to the presence of the workplace. The dead die, and the remaining are ours. After that is the idea, give the citizen whatever training you want. It is useless. The new law compels TRT and other private television companies to broadcast at least 60 minutes a month on occupational health and safety, non-registership in working life, social security, employee and employer relations. But there are a few points here: first of all, let Seda Sayan talk about entering as a prime-time spot after the idea is like the top one, even if she goes through the centuries and goes into the conversation of Hürrem Sultan and Legali, she won't protect the employee because the main goal is really not to protect the worker. Because if you do, you're gonna have to give up on human development, aren't you? In our motion, we said: What is the sustainability of the job and at least the citizen's rights with the television spots of the health and safety law that protects the employer? What are the rights to a collective contract and the right to a strike? If they find out, maybe they'll understand what it means when they're stripped of their rights with the arrangements thrown into a bag overnight. Dear friends, the accident here in Esenyurt, not the accident, was actually mentioned a lot of times, about the workers who died in the mall. 11 workers -- you know -- were burned to death. In fact, this death is just a few of the hundreds that are now carved into our heads. These murders are being tendered to subcontractors, just like the hired gun, and that's what happened there. The construction company subcontracted, and the result, just like that famous rhyme, burned to the ground, burned to the ground! The same firm, the company that burned down the workers at the mall, is building the Bağbaşaş HES. So despite the decision to stop it, he's trying to do it with another subcontractor. Another subcontractor disaster, you know, happened in Ashdale. In the meantime, let's add here that 53 workers died only in the construction of HES in 2011. We've given four different ministers of Ashkale a motion to ask questions, and the answers are coming. When the answers from the four ministers are completed, it'll probably come out with that famous rhyme. Where's the cat? He's on the tree. Where's the tree? He cut an axe. Where's the axe? He fell in the water. Where's the water? The cow drank it. Where's the cow? He ran to the mountain. Where's the mountain? Burned to the ground, burned to the ground, it's gonna be a story. The dead will die, and the remaining will be ours. The account, the dead will be guilty, and the rest will be innocent! How? Here's a part of the question motion under which Mr. Secretary's signature was filed. We've asked a lot of questions about it. A note was quoted as follows: An alternative line was powered by the staff who were assigned one day after the accident without entering the water. On the evening of a freezing day, the dead workers left on a pool bike provided by Erzurum City. The result is fate, it's discretion! Thank you, good evening.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0230par0774	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 38 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Bill 38, number 1/277. We propose and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. With all due respect. (c) 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 86, 87, 88, 89 and Interim 2nd Amendments, Dr. From the Heart to Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Levent Gök Sakine Öz Uður Bayraktutan Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0231par0791	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0230par0792	It's Sakine Self-Manisa MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0232par0794	Hail the working class of Turkey! Peace be upon the Creator! Hail the seed of the seed, the seed of the seed that flourishes! All the fruits will be in your branches. The days are in your hands, the good times are in your hands, The right days, the big days, Unexplored in the day, unstarved in the night, Bread, roses, and days of freedom. Hail the working class of Turkey! And those who cry out in the marketplaces, The land, the book, our longing for work, Our longing, the moon star, to our captive flag. Hail to the working class who will defeat the enemy! The king of money, And salute the working class who will defeat the alien's rocket! Hail the working class of Turkey! Peace be upon the Creator! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 38 of the Law on Labour Health and Safety. I salute you all. I began with the verses of the world poet Nazim Hikmet. Nazim voiced the longing for days that weren't exploited, hungry nights, but, in fact, for many workers today, happiness is to return home safely, because workers face him every day on the brink of death when they work at the shipyards, when they're working in unguarded conditions, when they're working construction, when they're at the edge of death. Workers sweat in unhealthy conditions, but on the other hand, they try to be patient with the threat of unemployment, so they are called head price if you want a job. Congressmans, the solution to the health and safety problems of workers is this urgent, and despite many wrongs, despite their lack, a bill has now been drawn up to ensure a little more labor health and safety, but this time the implementation of its most important provisions is left to follow. In very dangerous jobs, such as mining, for example, you leave the most crucial provisions of this law two years from now. Well, isn't this going to continue? Who will have the plague of workers who have lost their lives in this year? That's what I'm asking you from here. Why do the very dangerous things that you do so quickly come into effect, but why do the laws of the law to protect the lives of workers wait for two years? Look, there's an incredible mess today about the 4+4+4 system, not the parents, not the students, not the number of teachers, not the curriculum. At least postpone this law for a year. We say, "You don't listen to us, you put it into effect immediately." Now, there's a law that needs to be passed immediately, and it's being postponed. Mr. President, we're talking about a bill here as lawmakers, but first we have to follow our own law, don't we? Then why do you have the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation working until 4 p.m.? Are there only MPs here? Don't you ever think about the cops, our friends on the General Assembly, the press workers who were assigned to watch us? So working for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the occupational illness, the lack of sleep, the fact that people never see their family? After that, you call it occupational health. Look, don't walk out of these doors right now, talk to our friends who work here, and you'll see how troubled they are. If we don't set an example here, who's gonna believe the law we've passed? We invite ruling party executives to think more about our friends who work for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We're waiting for the day when we can talk about a job beyond market logic, the labour health bill. I wish you all the days of the day, the days of which were not exploited, and the nights of which were not laid hungry, would come at once, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0233par0820	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Interim Article 1 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 1/277 rankings are temporary in Business Health and Safety Bill 1. We propose and submit to Article 4857 that the sentence in which there is no law shall be passed. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Musa Pine Levent Sky Free Special Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0234par0836	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0235par0837	Sir, when this requested sentence is accepted, will it be added to the matter's head or to the end?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0233par0838	Free Special, Manisa MP, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0236par0840	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you once again. The worst misfortune that has happened to the working class in Turkey in the last decade, without a doubt, is that the Justice and Development Party is in power. During this period of power, the two most obvious changes in the working world, in working life, is that unionisation, the union movement is in decline, and subcontractorization is increasing. The Minister's best chance is to be the successor of both predecessors and predecessors with the Minister of Labour and Social Security, such as Omar Dinçer. Mr. Secretary, with his open personality for compromise here, of course, he doesn't listen to our suggestions, but sometimes he manages to adjust the tension here, even when a comma is open to our contribution at the point of moving a point. However, Mr. Omar Dinçer was such a minister that he fought with all social parties, that he was so busy taking away the work of pharmacists, doctors, dentists, nurses, pensioners, BUG-KUR people, workers, all of them, that he did not do what he had to do. The work he's not doing today comes before Mr. Minister, and he says, "Why haven't you done this law in eight years? Why haven't you done it in nine years?" He can't find anything to say when he's been told, just last semester we've done a lot of work on it, and we've discussed it with social parties, and here it is today." And that's when Mr. Omar Dinçer threw bridges with all social parties and made everyone sick. You have to make that clear. Opposition is sometimes a reminder, sometimes a reminder. Mr. Omar Dinçer used the following expressions after the explosion of the flu in Zonguldak ( 2010): There were no burns on the body of our first 19 miners, and they died well. Eight of our miners had mild burns, and their identification had problems. The miners were delivered to their families, the families are at peace. Mr. Omar Dinçer was a true advocate of subcontractorship and a perfect union enemy. Mr. Omar Dinçer had been replaced as a black stain in the history of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, and he had used the following expressions when he defended the subcontractor system: ▪The accident has nothing to do with subcontractorials. I think it's triggered by the unionists' lack of organization in private sector mines. And when Mr. Omar Dinçer was asked about the numbers on the subcontractor, there were 17,000 subcontractors who used his statement. Just a few months later, the same bureaucrats informed Mr. Faruk Çelik that there were 450,000 subcontractors. But we all know that the real data in Turkey is that 6 million people, without job security, are serving their own lives and services for the bread of subcontractors, and sometimes risking the lives of those in their place of duty. Two things have happened since the AKP arrived. One, unionization is falling, and one is subcontractorization is increasing. There are two ministries where this subcontractorization has increased most. One of them is the Ministry of Health. Mr. Erdöl, who is currently in the line of the Commission, talks about the merits of this, as I explain how terrible it is to be subcontracted in health everywhere we attend with our commissioner. In 2003, only 11,000 subcontractors worked within the Ministry of Health. According to 2010, this amounted to 150,000. The Ministry of National Education has acquired 240,000 of the 478,000 workers from 2003 to 2009 as subcontractors. When we're discussing the subcontractor issue in health -- it's an anecdote between us -- I always say that it's very dangerous in any field of health subcontractorship. Mr. Erdöl also says, "What does it have to do with total health care if there is a subcontractor in the cleaning work?" The answer to that is... when a subcontractor raped a mentally ill little girl at Manisa Mental Hospital on the day of her deployment, we ended that argument. Hopefully, Turkey will get away with this subcontractor debate as soon as possible. And we'll be putting an end to subcontractor work in the Republican People's Party. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit04spe0237par0848	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0237par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on the second part of the Bill 277 rows. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion in the temporary article 2, I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Business Health and Safety Charter 2/277 is currently in session. We propose that the clause be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. In accordance with Articles 77, 78, 79, and 80, the non-laws laid down according to Articles 80 shall continue to be enforced until the regulations prescribed by this Law are enforced. Dr. Candar Yüceler Süleyman Çelebi Uğur Bayraktutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0238par0016	Mr. President, this arrangement already exists. We can't agree because we don't need to make such a motion again.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0237par0017	Kadir Gökmen Öğüt, İstanbul MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0239par0019	Dear lawmakers, I would like to express my opinion on Article 2 of the interim law on occupational health and safety of 277 rows. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I'm going to quote you a few sentences from the Prime Minister. Our prime minister says that our country, which has a growth rate of 8.9% in 2010, has grown by 11 percent in the first quarter of this year and has become the fastest growing economy in the world. According to last year's May, it is another indication of how dynamic an economy we have to provide employment for about 1.5 million of our citizens at the same time of this year. You know, Mr. Prime Minister often likes to talk about the Turkish economy, give figures and brag about the government's actions. The prime minister's so-called dynamic economic statements never reflect the truth. You're going to say eight and a half percent growth, you're going to explain inflation that exceeds 10 per cent in the basket of low-income and middle-income, which is measured with untended product pens, like flutes, chips, umbrellas, which you're going to call the highest levels of the current open history. There's no such growth, Mr. Lawmakers, it's not called growth. I'm afraid the economic picture of the government does not reflect the facts. You know, Mr. Prime Minister doesn't neglect to target the Republican People's Party every time he speaks. The opposition does not speak the truth, nor does it speak the truth in their genes. Congressmans, we're always trying to tell the truth, and we're telling the truth about the economy and everything else, but unfortunately what we say doesn't work for the government. In a moment, I'll talk to official statistics as the Prime Minister wishes; you know, talk to the OECD figures. I don't suppose there'll be any objections to that either, but first, let's go over the Prime Minister's boastful remarks about the Turkish economy. Members of parliament, the prime minister said in the opening address of the World Business Health and Safety Congress, which took place in Istanbul last September, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. The issue was business security, but Erdogan, who listed economic data, did not give a single digital account of the business accidents and the deaths of workers that named the congress. Well, let's give it to him, but first, let's look at unionization rates. You know, if you're not union, you don't have social security rights. It is important to regulate the laws, but more importantly, to ensure the implementation and control of these laws. That's just a strong unionism at work. According to OECD's latest unionisation data, Turkey is the last among OECD countries with a 5.9 per cent unionisation rate. Is that a virtue, too, Minister? See, our country had a population of 40 million, it had a union number of 2.5 million. Now our population is 75 million, but not 900,000 unionists today. The figures of the Turkish Statistical Agency data do not match the number of true unions. Yet, even when we look at it from the direction of the TİKİK, the situation is pathetic. Turkey has at least 18 million employees who have the potential to become members of the trade union in 2011, but the number of unions is less than 2 million people. In other words, the unionisation rate in our country is around 12 percent, where the problem begins. Now, let's look at Turkey's report card of business accidents: the rate of business accidents worldwide is 44 per cent, while Turkey is 99.3 per cent, and I'd like to point out that it's too large to explain by accident. Turkey also has 172 workplace accidents per day. International Labour Organization ILO Turkey's diplomatic mission explains that Turkey is the European first in business accidents, the world's third, and this is the ILO data again, Mr. Minister. The AKP's business security report card was also revealed by the response to the proposal of Faruk Çelik, Minister of Labour, regarding the deaths of workers. EU statistics indicate that the rate of workers who died in Turkey is 7 times higher than the EU average. Most of the accidents caused by unregistered work in this data don't exist. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, unfortunately, after all these deaths, it's said familiar words, that families will be compensated, that those responsible will not be punished. We didn't forget some accidents. We believe in fate. It's not fate for a boss who hires uninsured workers, who doesn't bring a union into his workplace. It's called murder, not fate. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0240par0030	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the temporary article 3, I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey It's the Interim 3 of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We propose and provide that the following sentence be added to the clause. With all due respect. Moses Pine Uður Flagtutan Glorifys From the Heart Suleiman Çelebi İzzet Cetin Levent Gök For those who work, health reports regarding the previous employment or job change are also considered valid according to Law 4857 and other legislation. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0241par0045	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0240par0046	Mosa Çam, İzmir MP who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0242par0048	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you. We've reached the final provisions of the law, and we've made another suggestion, but both the Commission and the Minister have rejected our motion. Now, in the ten-year period of AKP's rule of power, regulations in the Business Law and various laws of flexibility and subcontractorization have reached extreme proportions. For example, the policy on receiving a business certificate has been lifted, and the labour health and safety code has lost its functionality, which has no obligation to obtain a business certificate that employs less than 50 staff. In the new regulations, the goal was to protect businesses, not workers. The duties of engineers for occupational medicine and occupational safety have been marketed, their professional independence destroyed, and, most importantly, job control has been eliminated. An arrangement has been introduced that allows middle and large enterprises to split into small pieces and escape their obligations. While the regulations were being drafted, the opinions of trade unions and relevant vocational rooms were not considered. The balance sheet for working life is evident in flexibility, insecurity, and indecisiveness. The AKP has finally presented a bill to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. This bill does not bring changes to improve working health, job safety and working environment. The draft removes professional independence of workplace physicians and occupational safety engineers and makes engineers dependent on the workplace. The draft envisions the appointment of the employee representative in charge of occupational health and safety by the employer. Even in trade union businesses, internal control of trade unions has been eliminated. Even in real work, there are regulations for subcontractorship. The draft law makes institutional control and training of business security completely trivial. The draft considers occupational health and safety not as a human focus, but only as a cost factor. The negative provisions of the AKP (AKP) do not stop with this. It is possible to repeat it with limited-term contract of employment. The restrictions on the application of the sub-employee are lightened, flexible working styles will be legalized with arrangements to be made. Private employment agencies will be able to form a temporary business relationship. The age difference in setting minimum wage will be reorganised. These regulations mean worse and more irregular working conditions, hence more business accidents. ILO envisions 1 occupational health care inspector per 11 workers. Turkey has one business inspector per salary of about 40,000. However, the number is 10,000 in Germany and 12 in Spain. In addition, the legislation on working life excludes the agricultural sector, part of the service sector, and almost all of the SMEs. Business accidents lead to the decline of productivity and national resources. To prevent this loss, an effective control system must be established first and should be focused on the safety training of employees as much as the workplace inspection. We believe that to prevent business accidents, audits and sanctions must be increased. For this purpose, legislation on labour health, occupational illness, and occupational safety must be modernised. Increased business accidents are the inevitable result of AKP's sense of rant-oriented economic growth. In contrast, we propose a model of economic growth that is productive and innovative. The economic model of the AKP is based on a cheap and low-qualified labour force. We aim to create a highly qualified labor force that pays off. Business security can only be provided in such an economy at the highest level. For us, the right to live is the most basic human right, the incalculable value of human life that should be considered before business accidents. No cost is above human life. He says that's the point of view of the measures taken against business accidents, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0243par0058	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the temporary article 4, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Charter Number 1/277, currently in session, temporary 4. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the draft text. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0244par0072	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0243par0073	Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0245par0075	Mr. President, dear friends, why are you so cruel to us at this time of night, especially the opposition? Why are you making so many proposals? Why do you speak in every article?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0246par0077	That's not what we said.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0245par0078	That's what they call it. I'll tell you, Mr. Vice President, I'll tell you: I mean, it's not about torturing ourselves, it's not about torturing ourselves; it's not about bullying our stenographer friends, our eco-friends, our tea people who've been working here since 9:30, it's about keeping them separate from most of their families. In what sense, we reveal here that we are looking at labor health, occupational safety, because we know that many of our proposals for this law have been rejected in the Commission, and the proposals of many social parties, trade organisations, unions, NGOs have been pushed away. I just asked my friends, they've been working here since 9:30. Mr. Secretary, you may consider your staff free tomorrow, but I'm also asking Mr. President, and I'm asking my Deputy Speaker, who will defend these people's rights and allow them until what time tomorrow? We'll ask him to be here by 9:30 tomorrow morning. It's unfair, it's unconscionable, and it doesn't apply to business ethics. It's a real chore practice. I strongly protest that. They don't have a union. If they do an act, they will all be thrown out of the door, just as they were in the Air - Work. It's the Clave's job to take measures against so much injustice, so much cruelty. So, why do we insist on these substances so late? Despite our suggestions, I was wondering if we could improve a substance. On the contrary, we're being driven by a honey, and in one article, in two articles, they agree with the suggestion of the so-called opposition, but the fundamental, the fundamental, the very essence of the law is that it's blocked, friends and we can't agree, all suggestions are rejected by the approach. Look what's happening at this time of night. A new motion... where will it go when I present this motion with a conscience? The 39th amendment was the following law passed by the commission and referred to the Parliament: (a year after its publication of areas of dangerous or very dangerous classrooms with one to nine employees...) Now, this area is completely changing, which is likely to be adopted by a new proposal because it has been submitted by the ruling party, which is now reduced to two years after it has set a new time. Now, look, it's been raised to 50 people, 10 people. So we're here until this hour to make a date for the future. I say so, and let the Minister know, and let the friends know, that from now on, you will not be responsible for the more work killings, the more business accidents, but you will be the ones who say yes, and you will not be able to sleep well, at least on conscience. We need to express it from here, from this stand. So we're going down in history, so once again I say that the law is not intended to prevent business accidents, to protect labor health and job safety, and once again I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0247par0083	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion in the interim article 5 I'm going to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the Interim 5 of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We propose and propose the release of Article 2 of the article from the text of the law. With all due respect. Dr. From the Heart High Solomon Çelebi Izzet Cetin Mahmoud Tanal Uður Baydutan Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0248par0099	We can't agree. Mahmut Tanal has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0249par0102	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, when we look at this Law Bill 277 rows in front of us, whether this law is needed or not, if we look at how many articles there are and how many articles there are, it changes 17 articles in Article 4857 of Business Act 38. The law itself, along with the temporary and executive clause, is 30 articles in total if we throw them out. Well, if 30 articles were to change these other substances in the Employment Law, then this law would not really be in so many articles if the articles in the Employment Law had not been made into more than one substance. Why? Because when we look at Article 38, are these provisions of the Labour Law against the employee or against the employee, according to this bill, which exists? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to point out a few sentences: For example, when we look at Article 83 of the Employment Law, the workers' right to avoid work and work because of their safety, the interns and apprentices can also benefit from it. Well, let me ask you now, Mr. Secretary, it's written here in Article 13. Why didn't you hire apprentices and interns here to benefit from it? I mean, whose side is the occupational code, occupational security, health code? He's on the staff's side. What does it mean to have such a restraining order against you? It may be heavy, but sometimes our friends call it work hostility, so with this stuff, I feel like it's sitting just right. I'm coming back, again, in terms of the continuation of the same substances, in what days does the employer have to report to the 77th Amendment in business accidents? In two days. What's the point? The employer's immediate act of carrying out this responsibility is intended to ensure that no changes are made. Well, it's three days after the 14th article of this arrangement, which you have brought, (2) (a). So it's here, along with the provisions, that the worker has been completely sanctioned against the worker, that it's a constraint on the worker's rights and freedoms. We're coming in, on Article 39, sir, a year from the date of publication for people in dangerous or very dangerous classrooms with one to nine employees. There are no vacations in business accidents, dear friends. I mean, business accidents, I'm coming. It's not like I'm coming. You never know when it's going to happen. In that sense, what hours are the most? At most, the first three or four hours, or the last few hours, as soon as it's already started. What if our friends who work at this hour and our friends in the back are working hard at work? They're supposed to be friends who'll be running for office accidents at any time. In this respect, it's really not a law in favor of the employee. All of our friends who came to the bench said something about the accident in Şanlıurfa, but I'll try to tell you immediately the main causes of the incident there because I was on the plane at three o'clock last night, only at three in Şanlıurfa, and we went to prison today. 1) In Şanlıurfa Prison, you are not allowed to be in Şavarla prison, my friends. 2) The prison does not sell eggs in the canteen, dear friends. I mean, going to prison means you're not allowed to eat eggs. Dear friends in Şanlıurfa Prison, one hour a day at morning, noon, evening, and one hour a day. No sports, no library, no conversation, no social facilities, and more than that, they won't let in any of the books if you don't mail the books from the outside. Well, the cargo money is $10, sometimes the book itself is $10 or $15. All of this, this hand over there, it's caused by the First Director himself. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Well, if that's where six people should be right now, 18 people are lying. Why is it less? 1) A binding sentence for freedom in the Czech Law, for the release of the prison sentence. 2) Since controlled freedom has been lifted, there is a reduction in this capacity in prisons. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0250par0118	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Mr. Canikli, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0251par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. A speech just made about friends serving in the Turkish Grand National Assembly because of their late-night work, and it seemed that our friend was very upset. In order to comfort him, he needs to be corrected and informed. Our friends who work in the night hours are considered 24 hours off at the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which means they're on leave in 24 hours. These friends of ours won't start tomorrow morning, so our tea people won't start at nine in the morning. Let's keep that in the loop. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0252par0128	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0253par0129	The stenographers... will be working tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0251par0130	I'd say about 20 to four hours.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0252par0136	There's a motion on Interim Article 6 that I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey This is the temporary 6 of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. The title of the article is to be replaced by fee payments to institutional physicians and occupational safety specialists and temporary 6. Due to the payment of labour medicine and occupational healthcare experts, which have been carried out in public institutions and local administrations, the charges of administrative and fiscal trial and exercise of public officials will be removed from the process, and we propose that these payments be replaced in the form of resuscitation and compensation cannot be discussed. With all due respect. Dr. Glorify From the Heart Suleiman Çelebi İzzet Cetin Levent Gök Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0254par0149	Mr. President, again, on the stand, the Minister has just made some important remarks, making accusations. For example, an expression, such as a working enemy, was used. All of these arrangements are aimed at removing obstacles in working life, one. And they specifically stated that there are no interns or apprentices under that law. That's what he said.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0255par0150	It's in the Employment Act.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0254par0151	Now, that's what you said...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0256par0152	Mr. Secretary, please, don't talk to each other. Please...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0255par0153	Look, there's an arrangement in the Employment Act, Article 83.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0254par0154	Now, this Law is applied to all jobs and businesses of the public and private sector, employers of these workplaces, and employers of employers, and all employees, including apprentices and interns, regardless of their activities.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0257par0155	That page's for friends who haven't been handed out.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0258par0156	They didn't read it.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0259par0157	The right to avoid working...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0260par0158	So that's it, it's pretty clear what's involved in the containment clause. So let's call it a misunderstanding, one. Second, this employer's three-day notification has been adjusted to the Social Security Act, 5510, because there are two days in the Employment Law, 5510, three days in the Social Security Law. This is such an arrangement.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0259par0160	Bring him in two days.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0260par0161	Sir, two... so we've also taken into account international applications on this issue. He was considered three days in the frame. Thank you. We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0261par0164	My dear President...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0262par0165	Read it, read it all over, read it all over.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0263par0166	Hülya Güven, Izmir MP who wants a word on the motion. Mr. Trust, here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0264par0168	I'm sorry... Now, Mr. Minister says that this is applied to apprentices and interns, which clearly states that he has the right to refrain from working on Article 13. In the Employment Law, there is a clear and clear sentence in Article 83, which applies to it, the interns and apprentices also benefit from it.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0263par0170	Thank you, Mr. Tanal, it's on the record.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0264par0171	So your general explanation here isn't exactly his equivalent. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0263par0173	Mr. Tanal, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0265par0174	It's not a general explanation, it's a general matter, it's a matter.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0264par0175	Sir, there's no point in saying something you don't know, so...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0263par0176	Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0264par0177	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0263par0178	Please sit down...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0264par0179	But I'd appreciate it if you'd tell your esteemed deputies about this.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0263par0180	Mr. Trust, here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0266par0182	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have received our pledge on the interim 6th amendment of Business Health and Safety Act 277 rows under discussion, and I salute the High Assembly. I'd like to start by asking a question to our ruling representatives. Why was there an increase in fatal business accidents every year during your ten years of power, even though there was a law on occupational safety in 2003? If the law was to be passed, why was 2012 expected, and could it not be passed within ten years? In the last ten years, about 11,000 workers in your power have died in a business accident, and we are still in a business accident every day, and at least 4 people die every day. Accidents are now serial killings. We didn't forget the incident in Ostim, 2009. 20 workers were killed in an accident, and workers were found as criminals. Later, the workers were given demonstration training. So, the workers in need of training or the ministries in charge? Again, we have not forgotten Karadon and Elbia. We didn't forget the mine workers that were buried under the dams, our workers who fell from the sea bike, and were frozen, and burned in the tent. Was it your workers around here, too? Very soon, we learn that at least 150 workers died in April and 600 workers were injured. The deaths are mostly in the construction, mining and energy sector. We don't know the number of HES dents. In April, we asked Mr. Minister Veysel Eroglu about the number of HESS accidents and the number of HES accidents, and there is still no answer. Which means the size is bigger than what we know and it's reflected in the press. If the existing laws had been enforced, if it hadn't been on paper, we wouldn't have had all this pain. Does our government support those who can't be hurt to work with their families? Does he accidentally lose his leg and give our disabled workers the prosthetics they can run to, or does he condemn them to the house by not giving them an electric chair? As long as the number of subcontractors continues to employ unsecured workers, neither accidents nor deaths will end. The solution to the problem is not the training of the worker, but the ownership of the government's workers, its embrace, its protection, its giving away those seeking rights. Governments should never be punished. But given what we've been going through for ten years, we see the opposite. In this case, of course, it's not the good faith of the AKP government. We're talking about we're the state of Jahan, we're talking about advanced democracy. Is this the workman, prisoner, prisoner killings you're telling me? That's it? Of course not. When we look at the situation of officers, police officers, and all other law-abiding personnel, the 18th Article of our Constitution states that Angaria is prohibited. The 657 State Officers' Law states that they can employ their staff without paying extra work hours if necessary. The government actually treats workers and civil servants like slaves. In the meantime, you're also limiting the wages of occupational physicians who are on a very important mission. I leave you alone with your consciences, and I offer my respects to eight of our soldiers who are martyrs in Hakkari, and to the prisoners who died in Urbana, God's mercy, and to the wounded, and to their immediate healing, and to their relatives.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0267par0192	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's a motion on the temporary clause 7, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Business Health and Safety Charter Number 1/277 is Temporarily 7th. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. With all due respect. Hülya Trust F. Nur Serter Ugur Flagtutan Dr. From the Heart High Solomon Çelebi Izzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0268par0208	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0267par0209	Fatma Nur Serter has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0269par0211	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been working on a law study here to ensure the health and safety of work, but there's one thing we all know, it's not gonna be enough. This law would already be inadequate, even if all criticisms of the opposition were taken into account, because this law and the government's work so far does not include off-the-book employees reaching 37.5 per cent. The interesting thing is, TİK can declare its off-the-book rate to 37.5%, but the government can't find off-book employees and record them. This law, of course, will not be enough, because only a tiny fraction of the 5 million, 613,000 workers in agriculture include workers in agricultural businesses, but other than that, it does not include measures to compensate for any of the risks they face. It's not enough because it doesn't include people who make a serious risk group who work in households. So this law actually covers the safety and health of a very small group of workers in the country. Even if this law had been passed in a very good way, it would have worked for years to unionize like Turkey, but then, of course, in a country where trade unions were now in the process of filing, it would not have been enough to provide for job safety or labour health. This law, of course, would have been inadequate in a country where the law was so widespread that subcontractorship took over. In this law, there was really no point in making an arrangement for occupational illness because according to the Department of Labor statistics, Turkey is a paradise. Look, there were 104,678 occupational accidents in 2010, 1,213 people lost their lives, but only 216 suffered from occupational illness. So, by world standards, we're a country that exceeds professional illness. I invite the Minister of Labor to realise these statistics. Again, this law, unfortunately, does not protect businesses that operate ten and fewer workers, reaching 57 per cent in business accidents, reaching 57 per cent in business, as the Minister himself put it. If in one country, in business accidents, the share of businesses that employ less than 10 workers had reached 57 per cent, it needed to bring a special arrangement to those businesses. Now we say, "My dear, what is the business that employs less than 10 workers?" However, among the total number of businesses in Turkey, there are 95.6 per cent of businesses that employ less than 10 workers. So this law ignores the problems of 96 per cent of businesses. In 2009, a change was made with the Dair Regulations to receive Business Documents, and it was forced to obtain business documents for workplaces that employ less than 50 people. Dear friends, abolition of the obligation to obtain a business certificate means that 99.4 percent of businesses are out of control from the beginning. But we're looking at the entry part of the law, the motive, the building design, building security. We're also looking at the reality of Turkey, where businesses in Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that 99.4 percent of them are lacking. I wish you all the best, I pay you my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0270par0223	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There are two motions on the interim article 8 that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the Interim 8th Article of Business Health and Safety Act 277 which is currently in session. Recep from Nurettin Canikli Special Ramadan Can Semiha Öyüş Hilmi Bilgin Türkan Dağoğlu Pelin Günş Bakır Yusuf Başer Sevim Fights M. Belma Row İdris Şahin In 2012, 20 occupational health and safety specialists, 100 occupational health and safety assistants, 40 officers, 40 Data Prep and Control executives and 10 Engineers staffs, 21/12/2011, and 6260, can be appointed without constraints in the Central Budget Law. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The current 1/277 is the temporary 8th of the Business Health and Safety Bill. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the text of the law. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the heart of Solomon Çelebi Musa Pine Mehmet S. Kesımoğlu Uğur Bayraktutan İzzet Cetin Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0271par0250	Now, there are recruits. It's a material that completes all of this. How are you going to carry out the assigned staff when this stuff doesn't exist, how are you going to do it? That's why we can't participate.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0270par0251	The person who wants to speak on the motion is Candan Asüçer, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0272par0253	We said yes to any suggestions that would really improve health, safety, work environment, but unfortunately, not on the subcommittee, not on the main commission, not on any proposal given by the Ministry and the Commission. Yes, it didn't. I'd like to point out that it didn't come from the Ministry and the Commission. Of course, the concept of occupational health, job security has become important as a rush to the development of industry and technology, but the cost of industrialization and development is not to create an unhappy working class that can't get enough nutrition, can't get enough feeding, can't get enough food from a business accident, can't get out of job disease, can't get out of work, can't get out of job, can't get out of organization, can't worry about social security, can't see his wife or kids, can't create an unhappy people who don't have a social life. A sense of industrialisation and development that compromises the welfare, happiness, and health of our employees, should not be adopted. In developed countries that value people, their employees, with legal measures, with social education and awareness. But like us, the wound continues to bleed in countries where the employee has no value, and I'm afraid it won't bind, it won't heal, and it'll turn into gangrene. Because in the interest of economic growth and competition, the government has a sense of dissolving employees by selling business health, business security, and ignoring the health and security of their employees. Business accidents have been stated by my fellow speakers, 50 per cent can easily be avoided, 48 per cent can be prevented by methodical work. So 98 percent are preventable accidents. But in other words, 2 percent of them drank off the table, which is accidents that we can't prevent. Ninety-seven percent of the workplaces cover businesses that employ under 50. But nearly 70 percent of business accidents occur in these workplaces. Well, while that's the case -- that's what we had in mind, and that's what we suggested -- let the Occupational Health Safety Board be at the workplaces that employ under 50 workers. Unfortunately, that was not necessary in the current bill. There is no information on who will be made up of the occupational health and safety board, which has been left to regulations. But we do know that business accidents occur in small businesses where there are no S.S.G. Boards. Dear participants, dear friends, occupational illness happens within a period of time, so it spreads through time, and it develops in a sneaky way. It's not that the statistics of occupational illness are rare in our country, it's because we can't count something unknown, not because it's not because it's not a professional disease. So according to the number of employees working for 2010 and statistical data, the average expectation of occupational illness is between 500,000 and 1.5 million, while Turkey's number of occupational diseases in 2010 is only 533. So our situation in occupational illness is pathetic. In order to eliminate this situation, we will be deceived by the fact that opportunities for the detection of occupational disease and diagnosis need to be facilitated, while the bill will be very little to be seen of professional statistics, which has been rejected by the Commission to establish at least one of the new medical facilities and toxicology labs that we offer on these issues, and in the public hospitals, adequate staff and infrastructure opportunities for free service at least one of the public hospitals. On the contrary, the resources of the occupational hospital in Ankara, Istanbul and Zonguldak have been cut off, and they have been stripped of their ability to make professional diagnosis and suspicion. Adeta, don't identify business illness, don't cause us any trouble. In addition, a commercial structure has been created that measures money on the demands of employers, which has been stripped of the authority of the Ministry of Labor to conduct independent control. In Tekirdağ, my district is located in Tekirdağ, especially in Çerkeköy and Çoryan, where the industry is busy, organised industrial areas are being established; infrastructure works are being established; construction, roads, roads, fire stations, stations, but toxicology labs, occupational health clinics, or cancer research centres are not set up. So we need to change that understanding because when you can't diagnose it or put it in late, there are serious problems in health and social rights. Is there only a separate law on this bill? There is. I believe that there is no law in the health system that prevents health and safety in the working life, and that there is no cost above the value of human life. I say preventing business accidents is more humane than paying, and labor is the highest value. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0273par0262	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the Interim 8th Article of Business Health and Safety Act 277 which is currently in session. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends In 2012, 20 occupational health and safety specialists, 100 occupational health and safety assistants, 40 officers, 40 Data Prep and Control executives and 10 Engineers staffs, 21/12/2011, and 6260, can be appointed without constraints in the Central Budget Law. Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you the proper opinion. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0274par0272	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0275par0273	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0273par0274	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Appointments for new recruits are intended to be made before the date of this law. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion based on the new interim clause violation. It is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which requires that a clause of the bill and proposal, which is not included in the Commission's text, but which is very closely related to the bill and proposal, be changed, and will be discussed as a new clause on the proposals which the Commission has already attended. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission takes part in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Interim 9 to Business Health and Safety Act, main number (1/605). We propose and supply that matter be added in the following way. Mesut Dedeoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Rusar Demirel Ahmet Duran Bulut Mehmet Günal ==Early life==If they want to move to the Office of Business Health and Security before the release of this Law, they can assign less than three years of staff from the universities, who are actively employed in the Central Health and Security Directorate's central and rural service and who have the conditions for graduation from the universities to be assigned to the Deputy Business Hygiene Experts, the KPDS or equal to the KPDS, in the event that they want to pass through an international test, with at least a C-level certificate, and if they want to apply to the application of the law within two years of the date of its publication, they can be assigned to the request and its own Assistant Business Experts. The General Directorate for Business Health and Safety and the Centre for Occupational Health and Safety can be appointed to the Ministry at least 70 and higher grades from the central and rural community, bearing the conditions for graduation from the universities to be assigned to the Employment and Security Department and to the job Hijper Experts who have been working for at least three years in the country's administration and from the staff who have worked at least three years to be able to apply the law within a year, with the record that they have received at least seventy and higher grades from the Ministry's examination and that they will be successful in the thesis they will prepare within a year. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general? Mr. President, we don't have a majority, sir. Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. In Article 39, there are two motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 39 of Article 39 (a) and (b) be replaced in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli Muzaffer Citizen Smurf Ünal H. Bayram Türkoğlu Mehmet Öğurk Eşref Taş Osman Çakır Ali Aydınlıoğlu Shuay Alpay Articles 6, 7 and 8 are: 1) Two years after the release of public institutions and businesses with less than 50 staff and less dangerous classrooms, 2) One year after its release in the dangerous and very dangerous classroom, with less than 50 employees, 3) Six months after the release date for other businesses, B) 9, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 38 in the date of the release of temporary 4, 5, temporary 6, temporary 7, temporary 8th articles, Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Job Health and Safety Bill 39, number 1/277. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine This law shall take effect six months after its release of the other articles, in the date of the publication of Articles 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 38, 40, and Interim 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. Commission... Can we take a five-minute recess, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0276par0320	That's not the way it works.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0277par0321	That's not gonna happen. You didn't just make us do it.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit05spe0273par0322	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0273par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 121st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on the second part of the Bill 277 rows. The commission and the government are in place. The motion was read. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? Mr. President, if you'd like to read the motion one more time. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Job Health and Safety Bill 39, number 1/277. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. With all due respect. Dr. From the heart to the soul of Solomon Çelebi Uður Flagtutan Izzet Cetin Levent Gök Musa Pine This law shall take effect six months after its release of the other articles, in the date of the publication of Articles 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 38, 40, and Interim 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Mr. Commission, do you copy? Now, do you agree or not? We don't agree, Mr. President. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0278par0021	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0273par0022	Sena Kaleli wants to speak on the motion, Mr. Bursa MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0279par0024	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion to issue Article 39 of Bill 277 rows under discussion. I salute the High Council. First of all, I ask God's mercy to our fallen martyrs in Mounty of Hakkarihi, and to our fallen citizens in Şemdinliurfa Prison, and to their relatives for patience, and to the wounded for speedy healing. I also cherish all of our victims who died in business accidents. From now on, I hope these accidents, these inconsistencies, don't happen. Congressmans, we're making laws in the Turkish Republic's Parliament with a sense of mass production. I'm afraid there's no justice in separatist, separatist, rant-oriented, biased, incoherent policies. When there is no right or justice, whether you create consciousness or take refuge in your beliefs, you can't stop people from doing wrong. When one is held with the one who breaks the testicle, one is also inevitable to be unresolved. Dear lawmakers, the only institution to establish justice is the state. He can't expect an example of understanding from anyone to adapt to the arrangements he has made. Especially when these arrangements aren't done in a transparent, participatory way. Fish stink from the top. If it's the government that makes the rules, it must be the one that wakes up and the one that guarantees it. The violations, neglects, flaws, and irresponsibility of administrations need to be arranged. If the state doesn't get the way it does from sidewalk to road, from pit to bridge to dam cover, from register system to running system, from organizational freedom to rights, the way it behaves, the culture of resignation will not develop and will not be won. The state, on the one hand, makes privatisation and exports services to the sub-employee, but in some sectors, it creates a double standard by limiting this system. If a contracted vehicle is also used for sustainable competitiveness, if property-based performance is valid, it is compassion and conscience. There's no discipline problem when there's a firm, primordial, firm, strict, fair quality management and independent control. Rights and responsibility are not one-sided, everyone must have the same responsibility and sensitivity to each other's rights and responsibilities, their freedoms, that's what democracy is. As we go on, understanding distances us from liberal democracy and justice. The state allows the employer to make a minimum wage insurance transaction to pay less than the actual salary. The government remains silent from labour anxiety and imprisonment, while the government remains silent from these widespread practices to save on pensions. Many employers view the situation as an advantage because of lack of support, not realizing the other harm that indifference has done to themselves. The regulations are free of action, encouraging everyone to commit crimes. When a worker has no fear of losing a job, employment opportunities increase, if he becomes conscious of refusing to work where there is no job safety, then it is possible to avoid accidents and deaths. However, in countries where labor has been brutally exploited, the search for rights and law is digested and threatened, tried, without job security, where trade unions are turned into the backyard of political parties... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a dream to wait for that reflex right now. Where there's no security, there's no security. Therefore, I request the acceptance of this motion on our conscience for the lives to be saved. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0280par0039	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 39 of Article 39 (a) and (b) be replaced in the following manner. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Articles 6, 7 and 8 are: 1) Two years after the release of public institutions and businesses with less than 50 staff and less dangerous classrooms, 2) One year after its release in the dangerous and very dangerous classroom, with less than 50 employees, 3) Six months after the release date for other businesses, B) 9, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 38 are temporary 4, interim 5, temporary 6, temporary 8 and temporary 8 articles published on the date of release, Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we're giving you the proper opinion. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0281par0053	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0282par0054	Motive...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0280par0055	I'm reading the reason: As part of Job Law 4857, the Article 35 has been redacted, since its obligations have been carried out after the adoption of the Law. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There's a motion on the 40th article that I'm reading: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 40th of Business Health and Safety Bill, number 1/277. We demand and demand that the clause be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. ▪ These laws are carried out by the Ministry of Labor. The law will be in effect within a month. Dr. From the Heart to Izzet Cetin Süleyman Çelebi Levent Sky Uður Bayantan Musa Pine Does the commission agree with the motion? Mr. President, we don't agree. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0283par0074	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, we've reached the final item. A very important bill for our working life will soon be legalized, I hope. This law is the law of private occupational health care. Advanced countries have implemented such an important arrangement in the 1970s and 1980s. Even if it's a little late, this arrangement that's been going on and on between parties for years is now legalized. Before this law, as you know, we had made a very important legal arrangement with the SGK about the Van earthquake and the Simav earthquakes. We've done the policy on our pensions together. By removing the Unions of Public Servants' Law from here, we have made it possible for our officers to obtain the right to a collective contract. And today we're enforcing the Business Health and Safety Bill, a fundamental law, and hopefully within a little while -- I'm asking all the members of the group -- the law of business relations, a very important law for our industrial relations, and hopefully, if we can legalize it, we'll have a very productive period of working life in this period. 18 motions were made today and seven of them were submitted by opposition parties, and we all agreed to them together, and the law came into effect. Since the law was a technical arrangement, there were really difficulties in understanding, because time was needed, the subject of research... such as the use of a sentence here does not include employees between 1 and 10, such as the expression used, which is not true. It does not include interns. It is not true. It does not include apprentices. It is not true. I want to thank all the MPs, all the MPs, all the MPs, all the law, all of the employees, all of the employees, all of the employees, all of the workers in the business contract, all of the agricultural workers, and all of the members of the group who contributed to the development of this law to this point. Thank you, sir. We can't agree to the motion.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0284par0080	Süleyman Çelebi has asked for a statement on the motion, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0285par0082	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, of course, have had a self-evaluation of the laws that the Minister has just announced, from his own perspective on what advanced democracy has become. When the Public Employees' Act came out, we had expressed what this law would do to the latest board, which we described as the Court of Appeals, and then 3.5 per cent - 4 per cent of the increase was pronounced, and then the so-called neutral vehicle Board of Reference made 4-4 per cent, which crushed employees, public employees, under inflation. Again, what we call the law of retirement, which we call "intigation," is the result of a great debate here, but it has not given pensioners a new gain. When we were arguing here last time, it was still early in the day; I wish and wish and want to be wrong, and I want to be wrong as a group and as a person; from our point of view, whatever they call it, as the Republican People's Party, as those who oppose this law, we will always call it the Labour Health and Business Act. If you change your name, it won't change from our point of view. We wish to be ashamed of the laws of this law. By the time we got to the point, either the power had achieved something very beautiful, or we could talk about it on this platform, but I'm saying once again that there is no such thing as a salve to a wound, and there is no such thing as a salve to a wound, as well as the fact that many of its substances are turning to a year later, and as of the date of practice, this law is such, by playing drums on it, and we've made beautiful reforms that we can say there is no law that we can call it. I have a place to apologize. I apologize not to you, but to my friends who work here. They worked this late. We've worked too, Mr. Chelebi. No, sir, no. Tomorrow, I'm telling you again, if we come tomorrow at 5:00, no one will answer to us, but if they don't come tomorrow, they'll be questioned. So, once again, I'd like to rephrase that the practice is not like this for our friends here, and for our stenographer friends here, and for our fellow workers who have given us other shifts. If you bring such a bad legal arrangement, it's our ten times, it's our honor to fight it, our duty to honor the working class. It's not like that, it's not like that, we're doing our duty, we're not betraying! Even our friends from the employer's department stood by the class ID, stood by the working party ID, defended the interests of labor, not their own class, but their own, and I also congratulate them. I also congratulate our friends, who are on the Republican People's Party's side with that employer's identity, but who have not abandoned the principles of the Republican People's Party. I'd like to say good luck with this law, but it's not going to prevent business accidents, it's not going to prevent murders. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And for him, I say that the next responsibility for this law will be the power. [[Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go!]] You walk, I don't walk.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0286par0092	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0285par0093	If there's one thing that makes me walk, it's people's will again. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0286par0095	Mr. Çelebi, thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0287par0098	He'd have sent the police before, but he can't because he's a congressman.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0286par0099	Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0287par0100	Before, you'd have sent the cops to beat him up, and now you don't have the authority.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0286par0101	I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0287par0102	Call the cops if you want. You have an old habit, Mr. Rootsal.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0286par0103	Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, according to Article 86 of the Civil Charter, Nurettin Canikli is a member of Giresun who wants to express the color of the game and in favour.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0106	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I'm very curious that our Minister has just given us information. Today, we make such a legal arrangement that the world implemented in the 1970s. So it wasn't in 1970, it wasn't in 80, it wasn't in the 90s. Did the talks just take place in the squares to enforce such a law? Were they followed or forced by governments? Have the authorities, the authorities, the organizations, the organizations, and the organizations actually fulfilled their duties in the way that would allow such a law to come out of modern law during this period? It's spoken here today. For 30 years, I wonder if this mission has actually been carried out.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0289par0108	It's in the Employment Act.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0109	The answer to that question is extremely important. It's obvious what he's got to do. In particular, did the people, organizations, and organizations who had been assigned to them, demanding their duties, and assigned by our fellow workers do so well? As far as I'm concerned, they didn't. Why? Because if they could, if they could really force it, if they could actually perform the task with the power behind them, a law like this -- God willing -- would have happened a long time ago. So I'm sorry about that conversation we had earlier, but I don't consider it a very meaningful conversation. For 30 years, these were the talks that should have been done before. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] However, the law that the world passed in the 1970s is now our government, together, of course, with power and opposition as a result, may be lacking, may be wrong, but in all general, it meets a very important need, that is certain, undisputed.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0290par0112	We'll see it in practice in time.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0113	Can you say that all substances are negative? You can't say that either.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0290par0114	Negative...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0115	So you could come out here and show what you're missing, where you think you're missing, but you should be thanking everyone who helped bring this bill to this stage, to the legislative stage, because you might be able to say, So without this law, the existing meri legislation is better than this? Is it better? In favor of the workers? Can you say that? You can't tell.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0290par0116	It doesn't bring about innovation.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0117	Well, then how is it that there's been so... so much interference to be made in your favor -- excuse me -- I've been considering it, it's been being done all morning. Of course you're going to criticize him, so you're going to see the empty side of the glass, of course you're going to do all kinds of criticism, but it's kind of a block, which is to say what you're missing, and it's reasonable and it's normal to put your opinion on things that make the system better, and it's supposed to be my attitude. But look what you've done. I mean, there are so many strange suggestions...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0290par0118	That was our proposal, our proposals were rejected.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0119	No, Mr. Secretary just told us, and we all agreed to the opposition's seven motions. After all, we've all done the law together again, but this attitude isn't right. Look, dear friends, there's been a lot of talk, a lot of talk. Time is short, I'd like to give you a few numbers. Look, I've always been told that there's been some talks here that can't really be filled with six concrete figures, that can't be supported, but I'm going to talk to numbers, I'm going to talk to concrete numbers, I'm going to talk to numbers, I'm going to talk to numbers, I'm going to talk to numbers that are concrete, I'm going to talk to numbers that no one can argue with, no one can argue with. Look, between 1992 and 2002, the number of accidents was 1,3, 607 -- about ten years, a period of ten years -- 594,232 valuable friends between 2003 and 2010. It's almost halfway down.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0291par0122	How many people died?
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0123	I'll tell you that, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0291par0124	Tell me...
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0125	Okay, Mr. Süleyman, I'll tell you. Between 1992 and 2002, the death toll -- again the same period, for comparisons to make sense -- was 12,357, 2003-2010, 8.838.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0291par0127	I didn't give you the 10,500.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0128	Of course, they're high, but there's a serious decline in both the number of accidents and the actual numbers in death. Oh, that's not enough. Our goal is to bring them down even further, hopefully. You'll see after this law, we'll all see it and we'll watch it together in the coming hours.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0291par0129	The Minister gave me the 10.880.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0130	So that's what's real, that's what's real.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0291par0131	No, you never told me about 10,880. The Minister gave it to me.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0288par0132	We need to talk about this. These are real things, you know, you could say some kind of ideological stuff, but it doesn't mean much if it's not supported by data, by numbers. I'm sorry. Let's talk truth. We thank everyone, our groups, our bureaucrat friends, our deputies, who have contributed to the law coming to this point. I wish you all the best in our country, in the business world and in the world of labor, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0292par0136	You didn't explain the color of your vote!
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0293par0137	Thank you. Oğuz Oyan, İzmir MP to state the color of the game and against it. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0294par0141	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have an undisputed reputation in Europe and the world in the field of occupational health and job safety. I leave the ranking to the Minister, whether he appreciates the third or fifth, but first among the European and OECD countries, there is no debate. Therefore, what is valid in Turkey is nothing more than a fully underdeveloped capitalism. Now, that hasn't changed in your time when you marked the last ten years. The number of deaths in the eight thousand-odd business accidents that you just gave the Deputy Director of the Group to answer a question of 10,804. So you're probably going to have to make a deal with these numbers.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0295par0142	It could be the moon difference.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0294par0143	My dear friends, now you bear a responsibility once. In 2003, Job Act 4857 was discussed here, and I was here. The fifth part of this -- I've already told you -- we've set aside this subject. So, whose responsibility was it that a lot of the regulations of this law didn't come into effect and so on and so forth, despite the decision of the State? So whose responsibility is it that this law doesn't fully apply, that business accidents can't be prevented at this time, that we continue to be a low-developed country with very high levels of business accidents? You made this arrangement, when these arrangements were being made, we expressed our criticism here, and you ignored it. Now we're bringing criticism here again, and you're not accepting any of it. What kind of compromise culture is this? What kind of joint purpose is this to run a legislature? Now here, of course, it's hard to have a common goal in this regard, it seems, because you're a merchant politician, because you're first in favor of capital. It's because you're first on the side of capital, which is that every arrangement you make with the worker defends the interests of capital first. That's the fundamental difference between us. So you get votes from labor, labor exploitation, just like when it comes to religious exploitation, but you make law against labor. Of course, there's going to be makeup in between, of course, which means it's going to have to look a little pro-employee, so there's a few right-wing governments in the world that are in favor of capital, such as other countries that don't run. I don't even remember hearing that in the Nazis. So after describing yourself in such a pro-investigative position, we're now drafting a bill to see friends in exchange for the European Union. There are no positives, are there? Sir, all right, we've got 50 gold pieces of gold in their 50s, but I mean, when is the time for them to apply? Who's gonna get a rundown on what market mechanisms? Are you going to bring them back in and cancel them here or postpone them? Do we know any of this? So we're making a half law here. There are forty-eight articles of the law, the law that we've passed here, with the temporarys, only 13 of them are in effect today, so we're making a semi-massive law here. The three articles of this bill will be in effect in a year or two, and the rest will be in six months. By the way, who's dead and who's left! Who knows what changes you'll bring in front of us in the meantime, as in Law 5018, how many times you'll put it off. So it's not possible for us to vote positive for such a bill. We haven't been able to fix any of it, and we haven't even been able to get it into effect, and we don't believe it can prevent job killings. So the color of our vote is red, so it's rejection. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-19sit06spe0296par0148	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Oyan. The negotiations of the bill are complete. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the bill of occupational health and safety and of Erzincan MP Muharrem Ilton (proposal for occupational illness and labour health) are open to vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 229 [[x]] Özlem Yemişçi Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (June 20, 2012) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
