tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Manisa MP Huseyin Godverdi, who asked for the appointment of the Day of Solidarity with the Palestinian People on November 29th. Here you go, Mr. God.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have taken an off-the-book promise on International Solidarity Day with the People of the United Nations of Palestine. Before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. The decision of the United Nations General Assembly on 29 November 1977 was declared International Solidarity Day with the Palestinian People on 29 November 1977. I wish the day of our Palestinian brothers and sisters' solidarity, the symbol of the oppressed nations all over the world, would lead to freedom and sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as you know, there have been many burning and destructive developments in our nearby geography, all of which we have been very careful and anxious to follow. Unfortunately, the United Nations' decision in 1977 to support the oppressed Palestinian people remained on paper. A clear threat to world peace has weakened the power of the United Nations and undermined the trust of countries and people in the region. My dear friends, as you know, Turkey was among the first countries to recognise the Palestinian state, officially established on November 15, 1988. We are united as a nation with the responsibility of our historical and cultural ties, as it was in the past with the Palestinian people of our hearts in our geography. A number of projects are conducted in Palestine, particularly in different areas of providing health, technical assistance, protection of cultural heritage, water supply, school construction and educational scholarships. The total value of projects completed in the West Bank and Gaza in 2010-2012 is 13.2 million dollars. As of the same period, $11.9m has been transferred to the projects. Gaza's Turkish-Palestin Friendship Hospital is the largest project of our country in Palestine. When the 150-bed hospital is in operation, it will be one of Gaza Strip's most important health centres. At a meeting held on 12 November 2012 by the Arab League, it was agreed that Palestine would apply to the United Nations on November 29th -- I mean yesterday -- for the status of an observer state that is not a member of the United Nations. This application was adopted in the session held yesterday at the United Nations General Assembly by the votes of 138 countries, 9 countries, and 41 countries, and Palestine took one of the most important steps towards full membership in the United Nations. I wish you all the best. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As our prime minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has increased awareness of Palestine internationally, and as a result of the superior efforts of our Foreign Ministry, Palestinians, who have gained the status of an observer state, have taken the opportunity of representing the United Nations system one step further, to move Israel's invasion, illegal settlements and attacks to the International Criminal Court. With this decision, instead of Palestinian authority, there is now a Palestinian state with a special status in the United Nations. As I finish my words here, we will be strengthened by our government's efforts to continue our solidarity with the Palestinian people even more decisively, not only for the oppressed Palestinian people, but for the oppressed and exploited world humanity, I wish to thank you all again with my greetings and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. God. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Malatya MP Mustafa Sahin (Matatya) who wants to speak about the Metropolitan Law and Malatya. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the Metropolitan Law and Malatya. I salute you all. Our province, Malatya, which is the capital of the world, which is the capital of the world, which is called the mountain and the middle of it, in the Travelname of Çelebi. Our province is truly a city of men and men and men with all its opposition, living in brotherhood. Especially with the courage of Battal Gazi, the tolerance of Niyazi Milli, the vision of Turgut Özal, and the steep posture of our province, we have a city that has the most patented and commercial activity in the economy and Anatolian region in the last decade, with the new law of incentives from the 1st, 2st and 3th organized industry. Our province, which serves as a strategic bridge between the east and the west, is a crossing point from east to west, north to south. As a result of investments in health care, our 15th district is a province home to patients from abroad and abroad, where the maximum liver transplants have been performed and health tourism has developed rapidly. A large portion of our historical works in Aslantepe, Battalgazi, Arabgir, Darende and the city center have been restored, especially as the first state in which state accounting records have been kept, creating the infrastructure needed to increase the internal and external tourism in the region significantly in the Nemrut, Aslantepe and Battalgazi triangle. With the university that raises the number of students to 30,000... Under the increase of irrigable farmland in Malatya, 161,400 dekhs of land met with water on the plains of Cercetices and Derme. In addition, with the opening of our Prime Minister's 12/12/2012, the opening of our Bozepe and Karakaya dams, the total watering of 157,000 acres and the completion of the Yoncan Dam, it will take 2. When we look at the work done in our Malatya province in economics, health, education, transport, infrastructure, social and cultural areas, the Metropolitan Law was a means of crowning services during the AK PARTI rule. Dear friends, while the Metropolitan Law is being discussed in Parliament, our nation has witnessed many memories. Some of these include: In 2005 the violation of Special Administration Law 5302 was discussed, while the opposition parties said they would replace Turkey's unitary structure; and now we have seen them carrying the same concerns, as the Special Administration Law was lifted. That's where their objections were. Another is that when the law is discussed, we bear witness that our friends, especially those who strongly oppose it, have proposed that their own provinces be taken into consideration, that they are incoherently opposed. With this arrangement, the registration of infrastructure investments in villages, up to 10 per cent of their revenues to villages that have been converted to neighborhoods; the registration of businesses in villages; the co-ordinating of public institutions and services in our major cities; the co-ordinating of public institutions and services from public institutions and services within five years; the fulfilment of services that do not exceed the lowest water rate in five years; the establishment of investments and co-ordination centers for ten per cent of their income; and thus the creation of special resources in order to provide disaster and emergency services; the creation of single-handedness of the municipalities; and the removal of the co-existences of the municipal institutions and services in our major cities; the removal of the municipal institutions and services in particular --responsibility of these are not going to be able to be carried out, especially if necessary. We also believe that the quality of life in the remotest village in the city will contribute to the country's future and future generations, including the right of Uncle Ahmet and Aunt Ayşe, the enforcement and service of the city's municipal authorities, and, at the same time, many innovations that we would consider to be more effective in services. We need to make a mental revolution and turn our direction into the future, the new horizons and the vision of 2023. Otherwise, if you turn your direction back into the past, it's only natural to oppose this law because we're witnessing the third bridge of throats in this mindset, double roads in health, transformation in health, and revolutionary work that has been done for sixty, seventy years, before us and all the innovations in our time. Especially when our opposition is sworn in like sworn-in financial advisors... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...I hope that the country will give up its sense of opposition, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar (e.g. Metin Lütfi Baydar) who wants to talk about the Patroit missile systems that will take place in our country. Here you go, Mr. Baydar.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0006par0049	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. A crisis is deepening in the Middle East and in our region, but it is no longer a Syrian crisis. The Syrian dissidents gathered in Doha (doha) last week to form a union that the Foreign Minister could not provide with Syrian opponents for a year, and they have chosen representatives, and they are well-known in many states. What we have left are thousands of refugees, millions of dollars worth of unaccounted-for spending, and Patroit missile batteries that our citizens will pay for, which we don't know why we're asking for. In fact, the reason why the AKP government zigzags in foreign policy is because they believe the Foreign Minister's words to the extreme. On August 24, 2012, he announced to the public that the Syrian regime would be destroyed in a few weeks. The Foreign Minister's prediction was so strong that even on September 5th, he would go to Damascus as soon as possible, and we would pray in Emevi Mosque. It's been a few weeks, and November is the end of it. The result is Assad is standing, and we want the Patriot system from NATO, but we still don't know why. We want to know why the Prime Minister stood up to the Patriots and then asked for it. I wonder what's changed. Or what did these Patriots get? We want to know why and what it's worth. Dear lawmakers, what did the Minister of the European Union say a few months ago: Today Turkey's military power will destroy Syria in a few hours. If we are a very powerful state, then why do we want 15 Patriot missile systems? Is our motive against the threat of chemical weapons, as President Gul put it, or to prevent possible air attacks on Turkey and to protect the Turkish people, as NATO Army Commander Lieutenant General Frederick said? We're strong enough to finish a state in a few hours, but we say we can't be protected if there's a chemical attack or an air strike. Why is there a possibility of an air strike on Turkey? That's what we want to know. Have we made new enemies that we don't know about? What's the occasion? They need to be explained. After it was announced that the Patriots would be brought in, another problem arose: Who would be in command of the missiles? The Prime Minister, of course, will be with us. He said that Rasmussen couldn't take long and explained that the command of the Patriots will be in NATO. After Rasmussen said who had the trigger, he added one more thing: the cost of the system is met by countries demanding Patriots. How much is it going to cost our budget? Are we a country that complains about increasing the number of refugees to the United Nations, calls for help, or is it a country that can spend millions of dollars on Patriots? If the regime in Syria is one week old, what is the meaning of the establishment of 15 Patriot systems if it can be received within a few hours? As Russia's ambassador to Ankara said, NATO will invade Syria? Is it possible that in an Israeli-Iran war, these Patriots are trying to prevent Iran from shooting Israeli missiles? It is clear that these Patriots no longer come for Syria. In our region, an Israeli-Iran war is at hand, envisioned by international public opinion. There's a possibility that this conflict will take place soon. Since these Patriots did not come for Syria, the government's decision would make Turkey a living shield to protect Israel in a possible Israeli-Iran war. Sobbing in Gaza, creating a fight with Israel in the image, and undressing under the hands of Israel's gendarmes, that's cheating on the people. Unfortunately, the government is putting it on its base. Dear MPs, in terms of the future of our country, the region and the world, I salute you all with the wishes of the government to leave this dangerous game he's been playing.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0007par0055	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a brief promise to our lawmakers who have entered the system. Yes, Mr. Yellowhead? I don't think so. Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the Hacettepe Medical School English Department is the country's leading medical school for students who are among the first 300 people to take the university exams in Turkey. What regulations and regulations did Faruk Çelik's daughter go horizontally to Hacettepe Medical School? What ease was provided for Faruk Çelik's daughter's transfer to Hacettepe Medical School? Will it be the same for students who want to move horizontally to this university? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0010par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, despite all our objections to the tender at Artvin-Cerattepe on February 17, 2012, you made this tender. Although our request to stop the execution of environmental organisations and people in Artvin's court on the removal of this tender has been denied, immediately after the appeal to the Tripoli District Administration Court, the Tripoli District Administration Court has decided as follows: The establishment of mining activities outside the scope of the EPA has violated the Constitutional Court's Constitution. In this case, it is clear that the international agreements, mentioned by which we are mentioned above, are in a very sensitive area due to the geographical location and the geological state of the region, and that it was started with the disregard of the mining operation, which should be subject to the environmental law and the CED regulations. Mr. Secretary, I wonder if you've been in any discomfort since this verdict of the court. Although we've warned you so many times, even though we've told you that your tender is a package deal, that it's an illegal tender, what the judgment has done...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0011par0071	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0012par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. He cares that Palestine is an observer in the United Nations, and I wish him well. The 21st century is the century of the right of oppressed peoples to decide their own fate. Again, the right to self-determination is one of the most basic human rights to determine its own destiny, with different manifestations in the form of autonomy, state, federation, confederation and independence. We wish all oppressed peoples one day to be free. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0013par0079	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0014par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, 70 buildings were destroyed in the flood on August 7, 1998 in the village of Beşköy in the District of Bridgebaş, Tripoli, where 44 of our citizens were killed. The mayor's office, which was damaged in this landslide, was transferred to the National Education Directorate in 2008. The National Education Directorate also opened this risky municipality in 2009 under the name Adnan Coffeeci Elementary School. Today, 150 students are educated at this school. Our students have no safety at all. Even at recess, they go out into the garden facing a cliff 30 meters high, and they take a break here. Our children have been forced to continue their training in the shadow of a landslide, an avalanche, and a flood. THE HES pipes are also four to five metres from the school, and the families are very nervous about it. Given the environment and physical conditions, it is imperative that our students and teachers complete their education in a safer environment and that a new school be made quickly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0015par0085	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0016par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Teachers waiting for appointment in February 2013 are already in this cold weather, in the winter conditions, waiting in a cold corner of Abdi Ipekçi Park to receive five minutes of appointment from Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Do people have to go on a hunger strike and come to the death line to make their voices heard in our advanced democracy? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0017par0091	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0018par0094	Thank you very much. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, we are deeply supportive of the Palestinian people's struggle to become states, to rule, to be free. In the meantime, we also hate the state of Israel, who persecuted the Palestinian people, who indeed persecuted them. We congratulate 138 nations who have rebelled against the persecution of Israel, and we give thanks. May the Palestinian people be blessed with the status of being an observer state. I hope they become government soon. By the way, I'd like to remind Mr. Energy Minister here that a citizen of ours has been asking on the phone. Mr. Secretary, our disabled citizen says: "Do you consider a reduction in energy for the disabled?" I hope you have an answer for that. Also, I expect the minister to be sensitive to his ordeal at Abdi Ipekçi Park by the unassigned teachers. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0019par0099	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0020par0102	Mr. President, thank you. Now, one side of our Adana is a sea, one side is a plain, one side is a mountain, and the other is a mujavir with forest villages. There's a lot of population here. It's a proper road around here, no waterworks, that's what the chiefs say. To give you one example of these, there is Kozan district of Adana, and there are other roads called the group roads of this district. For example, people who live in areas such as Pinelidere, Kabactepe, Yanasek, Çelenümümü, because there is no road, wait ten years for water to come from the ruling party, because there is no water. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0021par0105	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0022par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. In a vote by the United Nations on the Palestinian people's initiative to be recognised as a state in the international community, Palestine was decided to be recognized as an observer state in the international community. I congratulate the United Nations on this decision. I say that we support the Palestinian people's struggle to become independent states as the Republican People's Party, and that's where I express the Republican People's Party's will to transform the status of the Surveillance state into the status of the independent state in the middle term. I embrace the Palestinian people. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0023par0111	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0024par0114	Mr. Secretary, at the hearing on Thursday (November 22nd), I told you that the 160x2 or 320 megawatt thermal plant, which was stopped at the bell, was stopped because of corruption in the limestone tender. The government's only fluid bed is the thermal plant, which, according to other thermal plants, is 30 per cent more efficient, and yet the production of this plant has been halted. And when I asked you about why you were stopped at this plant -- which I'm reading from the report -- you said, "Mr. Congressman, you can be a member of this, I'll take all the details, and I'll share them with you, especially with your person and group. You used an expression. I'm still waiting, Mr. Secretary, for you to share this information with me.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0025par0117	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0026par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. While Mr. Energy Minister is here, I'd like to ask him: there was thermal water in the village of the Pilgrims. This thermal water would bring millions of dollars in revenues in tourism, heating and greenhousery, and was expressed by AKP politicians as well as by the Governor of Bingol. However, in an uncertain tender process, a firm was given $470,000 to run this thermal water. This company also holds the right to operate all thermal waters in Bingley. It's a process that's going towards monopoly. Therefore, the Privatisation Law also violates the Law. In this regard, the disturbances that the current AKP's Bingol Mayor and former AKP MPs have experienced have also been reflected in the Bingol press. All Bingol's public opinion has a serious impact on this issue. We've told the Minister over and over again, but no progress has been made. I'd like to reiterate that we expect sensitivity from Mr. Secretary regarding this corruption.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0025par0122	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0027par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization data and the Association of Agriculture have already begun to give us the first sign of serious problems in agriculture in the near future, in many products that we have spoken about in the world, due to an extreme increase in wrong and bad agricultural policies and input prices in recent years, from livestock to grains to vegetables. It compelled our farmers to sell what they had in their hands, when they were in debt, when they couldn't get out. In this regard, 1,3342 tonnes of hay have been imported and imported in the last four months, after the regulation, which released straw, grass and leaf imports, published on 8 August 2012, increased the price of hay 400 per cent this year. Is that true? If that's true, it's the first time in our Republic history that we've ever had hay imports in our country...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0025par0128	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0028par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan has said that Turkey is NATO territory in finding a place for the Patriots to deploy. Therefore, Turkey has stated that it does not need permission from the Grand National Assembly. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister, as representative of the government, why doesn't he pass the permission of Patriots and foreign soldiers to deploy in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, even though he has a heavy majority as Justice and Development Party ruling? Shouldn't we at least discuss it in Turkey's Grand National Assembly as a courtesy? Since when has the territory of Turkey been completely dedicated to NATO? What's the deal with that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0029par0135	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0030par0138	Mr. President, my question is short. What information and documents have the ruling party and the government gathered and what action have they made about the chips in Hozat district of Tucson?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0029par0140	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Moustacheoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0031par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. A recent report to parliament stated that a school, which was evacuated in the district of Trekköy, in 1998 due to a flood, was a danger as a result of the transfer to National Education with the municipality. I spoke to the mayor about an hour ago. Here, the journalist has made such a story with a completely contrary to the truth, and the information of the House has been stated that our students at school are in danger. It's all wrong. The reason for this is that in 1998 there was a flood in the village of Fiveköy of Tripoli, but this school was built in 2002 and was launched into education. So there's been a journalistic intervention here and a member of the Parliament...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0029par0146	Thank you, Mr. Moustacheoglu. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0032par0149	Mr. President, thank you. Today, Parliament has been a lot of haunts for young people, and I welcome them, and they follow us. I have a question for the Minister, but he's out. How many of the people who work at HES projects have made a commitment and decision on the HES project, and we want to know because I know from my own constituency, and I know very clearly that the people at the ministry in particular are taking part in it. That's what we're hearing in other cities. How many members of his organization have made a decision about it, and they have the right? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0033par0153	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0034par0156	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Energy Minister is up, but since yesterday, our Adıyaman farmers have been calling hundreds of farmers. Because of their electricity debts in agricultural irrigation, their fields and tractors are impounded. They have complaints that the main money has been added at least twice as much interest, and they're having trouble with it. They expect our minister to do a study on this, especially because of these debts, or at least the interest reduction, or the removal of interest. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0035par0159	Thank you, Mr. Firat. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to protect our narcissist manufacturers from price fluctuations and assess our country's potential in exporting the narcissist, and to determine the measures that need to be taken, we demand and demand that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105. [[Adana]] 2) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Elizipt]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 6) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Yozgat]] [[Erzurum]] 9) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] 10) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 14) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Tripoli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 22) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] Turkey is among the top ten countries in the production of around 3.5 million tonnes annually and the production of world citrus. Only one third of this production can be exported to the domestic market. In order to increase our country's competition with other countries in the export of narcissistics, incentives per ton must be brought to an adequate point for producers. At the same time, it is very important to maintain price stability in the domestic market, to close the gap between the price of the product and the market price, to create promotional groups for citrus products. The number of exported countries is needed to increase and increase the amount of exports made. It is imperative that producers be trained and control mechanisms be operated on the remains of agricultural medicine that lead to negative factors affecting exports. Clearly, an effective and well-functioning marketing organisation is needed to increase exports. To do so, state institutions must take the lead. Especially during the 2010-2011 season, the citrus found a buyer for less than its cost. Despite continuing rising costs of diesel, fertilizer, irrigation and labour, the manufacturer will also have to close this season with damage, as prices for the citrus dropped below the previous years in 2011-2012. There is an inefficiency in terms of the narcissist manufacturer. It will play a big role in lowering entry prices in order for the manufacturer to get the income he deserves. The cost of gardening and maintenance is high in the production of citrus. On the other hand, the product profile can't be changed during the short term, since the newly planted citrus trees have been heavily invested in taking five or six years to bear fruit. Two-thirds of the produced citrus must develop strategies for the domestic market, considering it is consumed in the domestic market. For this reason, the main expectation of manufacturer organisations is that the narcissist be excluded from the Hal Act. In the process from manufacturers to consumers, it is known that the middlemen make high profits. If citrus products are excluded from the Hal Act, it will be possible to lower market price and increase demand. In the narcissistic sector, there is a need to provide support for basic inputs to ensure sustainability in favour of producers. This prevention is parallel to the support and incentive of cooperatives and manufacturers. In order to increase domestic demand, advertising and advertising campaigns must be organised. The process must be supported by industrial investments, and in dealing with disease and harm, the quarantine practices of the foreign markets and the upper remains must be considered. We have reason to believe that the problems of the narcissist manufacturers and the shortcomings of the export policy of these products would be appropriate for the opening of a parliamentary investigation in order to determine the measures to be taken by our Supreme Assembly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, in an effort to investigate the problems of cotton agriculture and cotton manufacturers, to increase cotton production, to prevent the victims of their manufacturers, the Constitutional Charter 98 and 104 and 105 of the Civil Code. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] 3) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh [[Ankara]] [[Yozgat]] [[Antalya]] 10) Edip Semih Yalçın [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tripoli]] 18) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Antalya]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] 24) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İstanbul]] Snow is one of the most important agricultural products that make the raw materials of 50 different industrial arms from textile to gunpowder and film material. In addition, the leading sector of our country's industry is the strategic raw materials of the textiles. As it is known, textile industry, where cotton is used as raw materials: the added value it provides is an indispensable sector with the volume of employment due to foreign currency and labor that has been given to the country's economy through exports and because it is intensive labor. Cotton is as important as our textile industry, as is the raw material of the harp industry. Snow is also an oil plant, and its seed is used in plant oil production in the food industry. The remaining change is of great importance as a high-protein animal feed. Snow is a strategic product because of its properties and has a great place in international trade. He's never lost anything in the face of synthetic fibre production. With all these features, Snow supports 6 million people in our country. Despite the development of our textile industry, the world-famous quality suggests that the production of Turkish cotton decreases every year. Despite the increase in consumption, the decline in production increases our external dependence on cotton day by day. In particular, cotton production in the Mediterranean region is now scarce. In recent years, significant declines have been observed in cotton plantations in the Aegean region. In the Aegean region, cotton fields are replaced by hubbatas and orchards. If a national policy is not created in cotton, production will be reduced year after year, and the entire need for cotton will have to be met with imports. In order to meet our domestic demand, production must be increased. This is possible by increasing our production fields. However, prices, which are our biggest obstacle to marketing, do not satisfy our producer. A rapid increase in consumption in our country's rapidly developing textile and fusion sector has shown that production must be increased, but the price for cotton has been reduced year-on-year. The high cost of input pens in the production of cotton causes production to decrease more every year. For example, labor costs are an important element in cotton. However, its own walking cotton harvester is very expensive, and 18% VAT in imports are the biggest obstacles, forcing the manufacturer. The problems of general agriculture also apply to cotton. The Agricultural Sales Co-operatives -- one of the most important institutions in cotton marketing and market development -- have been cut off from funding. The troops explain their product prices by their own means. The manufacturer's product is sold with a price increase of 9-10 per cent, while agricultural loans are used at 30% interest. At the very least, you must be able to use loans at the rate of product growth. In order to increase efficiency, the selection of species suitable for the region and the certificated seedability of such species must be provided. The earth's physical and chemical balance is often disturbed as a result of unconscious and wrong practices on the fertilizer and watering of cotton. Unconscious irrigation, in particular, causes salting and loss of soil in our Southeast Anatolian region. The use of agricultural fighting drugs used for disease and harmful people is not dependent on the certificate. The largest marketing channel of cotton, the Agricultural Sales Co-ops, has entered a restructuring process with Law 4572, and according to this law, financial support for these cooperatives has been cut off. One way to support cotton production is to sustain these Agricultural Sales Co-ops. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2. According to the article, the Republic of Turkey is "a social law state." Again, 55 of the Constitution. Article 1 of Article 1. It's a joke, "The price is the price of labor." It has been said, and with it, 60 of the Constitution. "Everyone has the right to social security. The state takes the necessary measures to ensure this security and establishes the organization." The right to social security is constitutionally guaranteed. Despite these constitutional regulations, the AKP's government, which exhibits non-social policy practices, has converted food and coal to a political Rant account by exploiting social aid to people in need of poverty, hunger, and food. Our pensioners, widows, and orphans, who lack the benefit of the individual's income during a period of alleged economic growth, are forced to live in debt under the age of hunger without the principle of the Social State, which is part of our Constitution. At the end of 2010, 9 million, 498 000 pensioners rose by 4.17 per cent, with an increase of 4.5 per cent by the end of October 2011, reaching 9,933,000 people. So there's a 4% increase. As a result, the ratio of active-passion ratio reached 1.84 to 1.90 today in 2010. In an effort to investigate the problems and solutions of our pensioners, to address their shortcomings, to investigate ways to support them, to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements, the Internal Charter 104. And 105. We propose and submit a parliamentary investigation based on the grounds under which the clauses are included. [[Balıkesir]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] 15) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Antalya]] 18) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] 21) Fatma Nur Serter [[İstanbul]] 22) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[40s.]] 25) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[İstanbul]] [[Artvin]] 28) Reza Mahmut Çürmen [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] Today, in our country, all pensioners, widows and orphans are under the age of starvation. In our country, according to the SEC's current data, our number of retired citizens has come close to 10 million. Together with their families, this number constitutes about a third of the country's population. Such a large and important number of people do not benefit enough from their social security rights, their lack of the right to pay for their labor. At the end of 2010, 9 million 498 thousand pensioners rose by 4.17 per cent, reaching 9,933,000 people with a 4.5 per cent increase by the end of October 2011. As of the end of 2011, the government has announced that its income will be estimated at $124 billion,726m, its costs will be $140 billion,772m, and its open financing will be $16 billion,46m. The policies to close this gap are unfortunately unrelated to the social state principle. The most concrete example of this is that when health expenditures are increasing exponentially in our country, they're being transferred from employees and pensions to health companies, their drug spending is constantly increasing, but instead of opening new factories as a precaution, they're being shut down and sentenced to pharmaceutical monopolys. It's the privatisation of health and it's being paid for. Retired persons must be exempted from their contribution to health care. Despite a significant increase in GDP over the years, pensioners do not get their share of the welfare share. This should be considered in the rise of pensioners' pensions. Today it's 6. The digit is 560 lira for the farmer from BUGKUR, 731 lira for the shop owner from BUGKUR, and the SEC pensioner averages 885 lira. As of today, the hunger limit is $927. The AKP government has given pensioners hope. But the pensioners' hopes have always been extinguished. Retireds are constantly deceived and disappointed. The AKP government, which has promised to compensate for the injustice of pensioners, has, however, made power even more unfair in its term. The pensioners were told they were going to be given a bank promotion, but that promise was also in vain. At the end of different practices between former and new pensioners and pensioners in the previous system, the difference against former pensioners must be corrected by the principle laws. It has been promised to pass the initiative law, but it has been put on the shelf, and it has been promised a re-enactment of the June 2011 general elections process, which has been distributed again in recent days, but it has been announced that it has been postponed to 2013. The AKP has lost confidence in this issue. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, under the decision taken, we move on to the agenda of "Works to Be On the Special Agenda." We are starting talks with İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu and 24 MPs on the opening of a gene for energy and Natural Resources Minister Taner Yildiz (11/25) for alleged that he has ordered private companies to participate in these tenders with the tenders and that they are not allowed to participate in public tenders (11/25). Government? Here. I do not re-read the motion because it has been printed and distributed before and has been read in the 29th Union of the General Assembly, dated 27/11/2012. Members of parliament, according to Article 99 of the Constitution, this meeting will be promised to a member of the motionholders, a deputy member of the political party groups, and a prime minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. The deadlines are ten minutes for the motion holder, 20 minutes for groups and government. I'm now reading the names of the members who have been quoted: Proposal winner: Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça. On behalf of the groups: İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Necati Özensoy on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Aksaray MP Ali Rıza Alaboyun on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. On behalf of the government, Minister of Energy and Resources Taner Yıldız will speak. I now make the first statement to Balıkesir MP Namik Havutça. Here you go, Mr. Havut.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0036par0371	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to my dear fellow lawmakers against the Minister of Energy about our group's geneor. I salute your high council. Mr. President, I'm conveying our thoughts on the genotype of the Republican People's Party Group for Energy and Resources Minister Mr. Taner Yildiz because he has made private firms do his work on the search and operation of boron salts that need to be done by the state's hands and allowed people not to participate in the tenders and public tenders. Dear lawmakers, today we face a fact that even the Prime Minister has confessed. The Prime Minister says that Turkey has been exploited for years by selling crude borons as part of its investments in boron products. It is also known that the Prime Minister's detection is very accurate, but there is a saying in our area:, once the fish enters the net, it will come to his senses. At this point, Mr. Prime Minister... we carry out our historic duty to warn our future... our country's fortune... to carry out our opposition to our boron mines... to calculate what's going to happen here. Congressmans, our boron mines are fueling the appetite of international capital. They're trying all sorts of ways to exploit our wealth, get their hands on it. So we say to the AKP government, let's not be fish in a net, because the boron mine is a strategic mine that is very important to our country, affecting the world's conjunctive. Due to the extremely specific chemical structures of Bor minerals, raw materials have more than 250° uses in the form of refined products and the final product, which is considered to be the salt of industry. Cam industry, ceramic industry, cleaning, detergent, agriculture, meteorology, nuclear applications, boron fibers, energy, health, cement. Especially the energy of the future in the space industry and aviation industry. Precious lawmakers, such as hydrogen diporan and hydrogen pentaboran, are now unaware that they are working on using aircraft as high-performance potential fuel, which means that the pipe has promised the future. And that's where we have to carry out the responsibility of politics and statesmen, who everyone knows and who they don't know. Dear MPs, Minister of Energy Mr. Taner Yildiz is a political and statesman who has expressed that the pipe is a potential. However, after this statement, Mr. Secretary expressed several times in different places that the pipe was not cash in the pocket, such as oil, natural gas. In fact, Mr. Secretary, there are 4 billion tons of boron reserves in the world, and we have 72 percent of that. However, the world's consumption of borons is 4 million tons a year, which is today's consumption, and there's enough reserves in the world to last a thousand years, and even without Turkey, there's enough reserves to last 300 years. Therefore, if there are no new uses, the pipe means nothing. Look, from the Minister's statements, it seems that if they don't have new uses for the boron mine, other than the existing uses, then it's a worthless mine. I'd like to ask the Minister: aren't you the government responsible for creating policies and projects for the creation of new uses? Didn't the National Institute for Boren Research (BOREN) form your government in 2003 to investigate users in various areas that provided broad use of boron products and technologies in Turkey and the world, producing and developing new boron products? What has BOREN been doing for ten years, why did you build it? Now, let's not be unfair to BOREN. When we go to the website, they have a total of 114 complete projects. Balıkesir, Müğla, Dumlupınar, Çukurova, Selçuk and Anatolian universities have valuable professors, professors and project managers, and let's not be unfair to them. Mr. Secretary must not be aware that he despises the boron mine. We'd like to hope that the minister's testimony to trivialize the boron mines does not have any privatisation grounds behind it. Dear lawmakers, the boron mine may seem worthless today, you may make it seem worthless to you or to some interests, but I must stress that it is true that the developed countries that have the raw minerals control the markets, rather than the countries that have the technology for this mine. If you cannot produce new policies, you will destroy the future of the country. Just as the power of today's oil countries shapes the world, the future mine will be one of Turkey's most important forces tomorrow. Look, so stay away from the privatisation traps behind this trivialization. So, as we begin to talk, Turkey has been exploited for years by selling raw borons under the investments of boron products, which is what we want to believe in the sincerity of the word. Don't sell the Boren mine as raw material because oil is known to last twenty-five or thirty years. Turkey has the energy of the future for a thousand years. We have the largest reserves in the world on board, but the countries that we export pipes, they use pipes to make raw materials that are used in different sectors, they process and sell them to us and to the world at 10 to 20 times the price of our export companies. Turkey, unfortunately, has no advantage over its reserves in the world's boron-mining market. Turkey is largely dependent on Turkey today on raw materials that have no alternatives in many areas of its industrial development, while Turkey is unable to take advantage of that advantage. Congressmans, each country, of course, accepts its own underground resources strategically and takes the necessary measures in that direction. As part of the general rules, Turkey took legal measures that needed to protect and protect its interests, and considered the boron mine a strategic mine. During the late Ecevit period, Turkey made a major study of the boron mines in 1978. In accordance with the laws related to the Department of Mineral Enterprises, our country's minerals are being produced, operated and marketed, but today, we see an attempt to enter the borderline operation of the boron mines by offering a amendment. However, the CHP members of our OCE Commission, which we have been in contact with, have come to businesses in Bandırma. We studied the business there with our friends as a whole, from the entrance of the mine to the entrance to the bag. My dear friends, part of the government's services are already being done in service. I have to underline the strategic importance of the Borial mines in the world once again. Just as raw oil today affects the world's balances, the presence of the raw pipe in our hands will significantly affect the world's balances in the future. The 126th article of our constitution states that the mines are under the government's rule and savings. So the rant from the mines of this country is a guarantee of the future of the Turkish people's well-being. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, will refuse to take steps towards privatisation from the edge of the pipe, and we, the Republican People's Party, will deny this practice, which is the guarantee of the future, of our children, of prosperity, and we will tell the Turkish people everywhere. So we say that the Borlar is the future of the people of Turkey, that the borons are home, that the country is not sold. With that thought, I sincerely thank my fellow members of the CIT Commission. In Bandirmah, all of Balıkesir, all of our brothers and sisters who work in the borons are shouting these demands and our righteous demands. I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0037par0388	Thank you, Mr. Havut. İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0038par0392	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of Mr. Taner Yildiz, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's 9th and 99th amendments. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, on the one hand, are not subject to private property and even private enterprises because of the economic and strategic values they carry, on the other hand, they can't replace them when they're exhausted, because they can't replace them. This has been preserved in all laws and constitutions throughout the history of the republic. The Constitution of 1982, entitled the search and operation of natural wealth and resources, is under the government's rule and savings of natural wealth and resources. The right to search and operate these belongs to the government. For a certain period of time, the government may grant its right to the real and legal authorities. Of course, the search and operation of the resource and the search and the operation of the government depends on the open permission of the law, whether it is made by a partnership with the real and legal authorities or directly by the real and legal authorities. The number 2840, the Bor salts, Trona and Asphaltite Mines, and the establishment of nuclear energy raw materials, according to the Second Amendment, which regulates the return of some of the Liniyet and Iron Fields, were considered a legal obligation to search and operate boron salts, uranium and thorium mines. In relation to the subject, it's Court 1. His apartment's 26/5/1999 date, 1999/93 and 1/5/2000 days, decisions in 2000/67 have been made clear that the obligation to search and operate boron salts is also covered by the enrichment, refining and marketing of this substance. While the legal situation is so clear, the most basic stages of mining have begun to be carried out by subcontractors such as defamation, decapitation, ore extraction, elimination, selection, and washing. In fact, the dry borax production of the Kirka Company in Eskişehir is produced by a private company built into business. So the dehydrated borax production of the Fortya Company is actually made by the private sector, dear friends. This is a clear violation of Law 2840. Energy Minister Taner Yildiz agreed on 17 April 2012 in response to the question asked by Konya MP Attila Kart. The Undersecretary of the Treasury and the DPT Undersecretary intervened in the fact that the Borial mines were run by private companies, and the State Department of Energy was concerned that the current situation was contrary to Law 2840. He's requested an immediate opinion from his apartment. This is in the Court's reports. Despite the demands of the Treasury and DPT Undersecretary, Department of Energy, District 1. He continued to conduct boron and borax production by private sectors without need of an opinion from his apartment. It is not a coincidence that the Ministry of Energy did not receive an opinion from the Court despite the insistence of the Treasury and the DPT. Because the Court has made decisions in the past years that it is against the Law No. 2840 to run the boron mines through private companies. Mr. President, the Minister of Energy, who, in a nutshell, operates the sovereign mines that should be run by the state, under Article 168, under Article 2840, and against private sector institutions, has committed a misdemeanor of the Turkish Penal Code, which is stated in Article 257. Minister of Energy Taner Yildiz, who was caught red-handed as a result of this situation, immediately brought to Parliament's agenda the proposal to change the 2nd Article of Law 2840. This law stipulates that such transactions as decapitation, ore extraction, breaking, elimination, elimination, washing, packing, taxil, evacuation will be seen by tender to third parties. Now, I ask Mr. Secretary, isn't this already being done by the private sector? Yes, it is. Is it because it is contrary to Law 2840 that this law was brought to the Parliament's agenda? Yes, that's the law of laundering, so the House has been brought up on the agenda. If the work is in accordance with the law, I mean, if there's no need for this legal change, why is this law on the agenda of Congress? Mr. President, because Minister of Energy Taner Yildiz has given the operation of the borron mines to private companies in violation of Article 168, Article 2840, and under the tender for service, and because it is a crime under Article 257 of the Turkish Penal Code, I would like you all to know this. This law is one of the harsh laws of capitalism, which promotes modern slavery, or subcontractorism, which also purifies corruption that covets people's mines and the labor of public workers. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the irregularities in the service tenders of the boron mines are not limited to violations of the Mining Law, but the major irregularities are in the service tenders against the Public Contraction Act. Dear MPs, two investigations are being carried out at Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office concerning corruption in the Ministry of Energy. The indictments against these corruptions reveal the extent of corruption and corruption that exists in the Ministry of Energy. I can send this indictment and the court order to all the MPs who want it. It's a 120-page court decision in the Ministry of Energy, dear friends. I'm not going to be able to get into that, but I'm going to talk about what's going on in this indictment, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on? According to the findings found in this indictment, bribes have been distributed to start with the top officials of the Energy Ministry, international companies in the board's bribery scheme, including phone listening, photos, and tender documents, where the owners have determined which company will receive which tenders, which other contractors have been paid to come out on the tender. One of the companies mentioned in this indictment is Fernas. Now, let's take a closer look at how these transactions are conducted through Fernas: Ankara 11. The 2005/134 basis of the High Criminal Court is 2007/77. His partner Muzaffer Nasıroğlu and his manager Yaşar Giregiz were convicted of membership and corruption in the tender, and he was acquitted of bribery. The Supreme Court has confirmed the charges of membership and conspiracy to commit a crime, and has found the verdict of acquittal in terms of bribery and corrupted, dear friends. On the other hand, the manager of Fernas company Muzaffer Nasıroğlu, 7/4/2006 Bozük, Seçeköy, Ebottepe, Enka Transport Line Capacity, Ankara 7. Another case has been filed at the High Criminal Court in 2008/38, dear friends. In order to prevent companies under suspicion of corruption in public tenders financed by the orphan's right, the 58th and 59th articles of Public Contraction Law 4734 have been issued. According to Article 59/4 of the Public Relations Act 4734, the tenders of public institutions and organisations under the Law shall not be included until the end of the trial of those who have been ordered to prosecute and to open a civil suit as part of the first joke on the part of this law. The People's Attorney's Office has decided to file a civil suit against them, and the People's Attorney's Office will report it to the Public Contract Agency for their records. It is called the Law Act, dear friends. So what the law clause says, dear friends, is that if there are allegations of corruption about a company and these allegations have been made by the state's attorney's office seriously -- that's not enough -- and if the court has decided to prosecute the claims seriously, then it's now ordering the executors not to put public resources at risk by bidding or bidding on this company. Now, let's get back to the beginning. The Fernas company is on trial and convicted of tampering with the tender at the Ministry of Energy. Is that correct, Mr. Secretary? Right. In this case, what does Public Contraction Act 4734 command? The Ministry of Energy must make a restraining order on Fernas and other companies as soon as the trial begins and prevent these companies from participating in the tenders. Has this decision been made, Mr. Secretary? No, it's not. So the Public Proposal Act 4734 is being violated. According to the 17th, 58 and 59th Articles of Public Contraction Law 4734, this decision should be made by the Ministry of Energy as a ban on the Fernas company and its partners convicted and charged with the crimes of membership and corruption in the tender, while this decision is not made by the Ministry of Energy. Is this where the irregularities end? No, it's not. This time, the Department of Energy Department's Electric Productions Corporation General Directorate, Afşin Elbistan Liniyets Barrackville Open Enterprises tenders for a cover job. There's been an incredible incident in this tender, dear friends. The tender includes Fernas, a company convicted of corrupting the tender for the Ministry of Energy tenders. The Ministry of Energy does not just bid on the Fernas company, which should not be part of the tender, but gives the tender to the Fernas company at $19m, which was held on 6/11/2007. The second sentence of Article 235 of Article No. 5237, titled "Conspiracy to the tender" is the sentence of the second article of Turkish Penal Code No. 5237, which is defined as an open violation of the law as the crime of contracting people who are not qualified to participate in the contract or under the circumstances of the contract. Now, has Fernas been tried and convicted for tampering with the tender? She's dressed. Did this company, who shouldn't have been involved in the tender, participate in this tender? He's in. Has there been a charge of tampering with the tender by allowing him to participate in the tender of people who do not have the capacity to participate in the tender? It's been processed. What did the Minister do? He just watched the whole process, and he didn't do anything. Mr. Secretary, are you in charge of examining, investigating and inspecting any transactions in your ministry? You're on duty. Are you in charge of the activities and operations of those under your command and tasked with overseeing the activities, procedures, accounts of the ministry's central services? You're also in charge of this. What did the Minister of Energy do, my dear friends, despite such open crime? The Minister of Energy doesn't do anything, doesn't do anything, doesn't do anything he has to do. So, what else happened when this happened? At this stage, a dark hand comes into play, dear friends. Other firms involved in the tender became the CEO of Yasar Giregiz Fernas, who was convicted of falsifying the tender, historically. Muzafer Nasıroglu's company is in charge of telsim and the contract, thus saying that the tender should be cancelled due to the fact that it is not allowed to participate in the tender should be cancelled on 28/04/08, so companies report to the Ministry of Energy as I have told you here. What does the Department of Energy have to do? He's got to get rid of the contract, hasn't he? Resolved? No, he refused the appeal. Meanwhile, the notice order, which follows the case of Fernas company and requires that it be banned from the tenders, violates Law Code Number 4734 and its spirit -- which I have just read in violation of the open law decree -- is being lifted by the rights of the Dear Friends in accordance with the Constitution of Public Retribution, which is being published in 26877. In other words, the relevant provisions of the Public Admission General Act, which explains the situation of Fernas and other companies, are suddenly being eliminated, dear friends. As it is known, the Public Proposal General is issued to clarify the laws of the law. Complaints of the Ministry of Energy's rejection of their applications are now being applied to the Public Loan Agency, dear friends. However, the Public Contraction Agency rejects the companies' application by changing the Public Admission Act twenty days before this application on grounds that these provisions are not open. I mean, the Public Contractorship has cancelled the notice before the application, and then the law is not open. It also rejects this application, my dear friends. So the Afşin-Elbistan Liniyets Barrackville Open Company also becomes Fernas company for $19 million. The tenders to the Fernas company, convicted of corrupting the tender, are not limited to that, dear friends. This time, on 05/08/2009, the Department of Energy's General Directorate of Meat Mines, which is the 110 million tonnes of capacitor tender, opened by the General Manager's Office, which is the government of the Boron mines, is again being given to the Fernas company at $115m in 05/08/2009.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0039par0415	What a company!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0038par0416	So the operation of all of us's eyeballs, the operation of our boron mines, is being given to the company Fernas, who is convicted of corrupting the tender. When this is uncovered by the Republican People's Party and brought to the agenda of the House, the government immediately brings up the law on the amendment of the Public Contraction Act, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0039par0417	Whose man is this company, whose property is it?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0038par0418	So, on 01/11/2012, what is the purpose of this law, which was adopted a month ago by the ruling party MPs' votes? Now, this is a law that allows corporations to participate in the tender and take advantage of the orphan's rights, dear friends. Unfortunately, the ruling lawmakers -- I hope they don't, but I hope they don't -- have, I assume they know -- have passed this law, so, unfortunately, the right of this orphan has opened up, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0040par0419	How are they gonna get through the line bridge?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0038par0420	The documents and reports we've examined have led us to a terrible truth about the Department of Energy. As of now, the Ministry of Energy is in the hands of two companies. One of these two companies is Fernas. This company, despite the resistance of all honest and honest bureaucrats, is able to do anything at the Ministry of Energy. The procedure is a legal massacre. Due to these procedures, dozens of public officials, especially the Minister of Energy, are under heavy legal responsibility, dear friends. This is an opportunity by the Republican People's Party to get rid of this corruption wheel that has surrounded the Ministry of Energy, which is the backbone of our country's economy. Mr. Secretary is making a press statement prior to this questioning. The information I've received says: "The general is out of water, and in serious matters are asked." I call to the conscience of all MPs, and all these things are fixed with documents. Don't you think the suspicion of all this is enough for a minister to give you a gene, dear friends? (CPP claps) Is this the watered-down version of your gene? It's our job to go over them. Mr. President, in summary, Energy Minister Taner Yildiz has committed a violation of the duty stated in Article 2840 of the Constitution, Article 2/40 of Law 2/4, and a mistrial against private sector institutions in violation of the State's decisions, while he has tried to prosecute the Turkish Penal Code for the establishment of a private factory for the production of water boraks in the field of Cyra Bors, while he has submitted a sentence against the Turkish Penal Code for violating the duties stated in Article 257 (the article 257) of the Ministry of Energy and against the defaming of its own contracts.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0041par0425	Please complete.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0038par0426	Yes, Mr. President. Due to his leniency, it has been revealed that the Turkish Penal Code has committed a misdemeanor in Article 257. In the face of these crimes and detections, the Minister of Energy must be taken down by his gene. I salute your grand delegation while I stop speaking.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0042par0430	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mardin MP Erol Dora. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0043par0433	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding Mr. Taner Yıldız, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources. I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, Mr. Sırı Sakık, our Mr. Minister, had just asked him a question, and I would like to ask him the same question: how many brothers or relatives of your senior staff shut down their HES projects and then submitted them to sale? Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are sad to say that the Republic of Turkey remains an externally dependent country, as in many areas. False energy policies implemented are one of the main reasons why our country is an externally dependent country. Finally, the increase in electricity and natural gas brought up the wrong energy and war policies once again. Turkey is currently using the world's most expensive oil; it is also a country dependent on external gas. In short, Turkey imports 74 per cent of its energy from the outside, as it has clearly been established in recent statistics. In energy, Turkey, which is addicted to imports, has about a year's oil reserves and about two months' supply of natural gas at the end of 2009. As the minister explained last winter, the bill for a family paying $400 a month in gas bill will be up to 520 lira this winter. Do you ever think about how a minimum waged citizen would get by after paying this bill? Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are essentially part of the security policy that the government has put in place recently, despite all our warnings in recent years. In Turkey, this conflicting environment, which has left thousands of young people dead and crippled, devours the country's national resources as if it were a monster. Under the safety concept, the cost of conflicts is returned to our citizens as electricity and gas increases when added to the wrong energy policies imposed on them. Dear lawmakers will rise to 1,800 when 200 HES, which are currently around 1,600, are added to the production of the HES. HES productions require the approval of the villagers to receive the producer company's CED report. Villagers who don't want living areas and nature to be destroyed naturally object to HES companies and don't want HESESTs where they live. However, as these objections have not been considered, the Council of Ministers quickly passed on the power of publicisation to the EPDK (EPDK), and the Energy Market Editing Board immediately used it for any firm who applied for it. A rash publicization, known as a war law, can be used recklessly for HES productions that are clearly expressed by expert reports that it destroys nature. Another wrong energy policy of the ministry is the policy that it implements in terms of nuclear energy. While nuclear energy has been abandoned in many parts of the world because of the damage it has done to the environment and humans, it is not understandable to try to open a nuclear power plant in many places in Turkey. The effects of the Chernobyl disaster remain, and many of our people in the Black Sea are dying of cancer. The Minister's comments about nuclear energy are truly astonishing. "Cigaregaria is 2.3 years of average human life, poverty is 700 days, alcohol is 130 days, heart is 2,100 days ahead, " he told the press. In the United States of America, the plane crashes put the average human life span ahead of one day. The average death of nuclear power plants is only.03 days." He made a statement in the form of a statement. There are various risks, such as accession of electricity by means of nuclear power plants, all other energy-making technologies and investments. From the choice of technology and location to be chosen, it's a method of gaining extremely risky energy, especially in normal working conditions and in any accident, health and environmental impact. The nuclear energy issue is a technical concern of the continuity of all branches of science and of society's interests, despite expected price hikes; the need for fully dependent fuel; the struggle to protect in the state of war; the destruction of radiation waste; the removal of the plant when its life is over; and all of its costs are accounted for. It must not be forgotten that nuclear energy has many risks. In this regard, human and environmental health must be primaryly important. Precious lawmakers are among the most important sources of the risks involved in nuclear power plants, as well as the environmentally harmful radiation, nuclear plant accidents and radioactive waste, the environmental health risks we face are both insurmountable and unregulated risks, which are the most severe group of risks in the scientific table. Nuclear crime and punishment have not been defined in Turkey's legal texts on nuclear power plant and harmful radiation. Individual rights to participate in important investment decisions, such as the environmental and health-effective nuclear plant, are incomplete and full of obstacles in our country. Energy and nuclear energy are not only in the industrial sector, but in all sectors, such as agriculture, forest, tourism, health. The nuclear plant investment as a solution to global warming is to get stuck in the swamp while we escape the rain. In our country, CED is a commercial business for private companies. For this reason, the business is being adapted to CED, not to CED, but to some sectors such as mining, oil exploration, which are being rendered meaningless by the CED. Our country's record of corrupt environmental protection, filled with unequivocal court decisions, requires that we and all citizens be extremely cautious about nuclear power plants. Nuclear power plants are not insured by insurance companies in any country because the material and spiritual size of human and environmental health losses, which will be caused by a nuclear accident and will last for generations, as in the Chernobyl disaster, may be too large to predict or affordable, as in the case of a number of countries' ecological disaster. Nuclear power plants are completely dependent on external and fuel resources as much as the cost of energy is expensive because of both investment and enterprise and waste and economic end-of-life radiation-polluted plant parts that last a hundred years. Mr. President, I'd like to address some of the cases in Syria. The recent situation in Syria affects and worries all of us deeply. With much more violence in recent days, we see that events in Syria have come to an extent that will affect the entire Middle East. The Syrian crisis has again shown how fragile regional alliances are in this basin of the Middle East since March 2011, which has caused the deaths of nearly 50,000 civilians. The resistance of the active policies followed by Turkey during the crisis allowed Turkey to see the limits of its foreign policy, which greatly expanded its capacity in the EC PARTI administration. Turkey, which has gained great momentum in the Middle East, has needed to test the limits of its regional power in the Syrian crisis and its capacity to direct the demands for revolution in the Middle East, and ultimately to review its relations with regional actors. Turkey has faced strong resistance in Syria and has not reached its goal until now, despite strong political and military support for its quest for revolution, Turkey's policy, which has been described as "the new Ottomanist" in some circles, was carried out in the Middle East. The government, which is on its way with the neighbours with the policy of zero problems, is evolving towards zero neighbouring policy. The biggest impact of the Syrian crisis has been on Turkey-Iran relations in the region. Turkey, alone in the ongoing revolution in Syria, has suffered a major break in its relations with all its neighbours, but especially Iran, as the United Nations failed to get a decision on the use of force, as it did in Libya. Although there has been a great competition recently behind the scenes, the relationship that has continued since the Kasri Smurf Agreement, which has increased to the highest level in the AK PARTI power, as both sides often like to repeat, has been greatly reduced, to a tense phase. The reason for tension is that the two countries read differently the results of the regime change in Syria. It is a fact that Turkey thought the Assad regime would collapse within six months, and its entire foreign policy was on this plan, but Turkey remained alone in the international community. Finally, during a meeting in Doha (the capital of Qatar), the Syrian opposition went to a structural change under the Syrian Revolution and the National Coalition of Opposition Forces (the National Coalition), and Turkey's opposition has lost its influence. Clearly, the Obama administration prefers more cooperation with this structure. The fighting continues in Syria, and the number of deaths is increasing day by day. Turkey continues to be accused of supporting Syrian opposition, especially weapons and money assistance. This has once again shown how wrong Turkey's foreign policy is. Moreover, in the polls conducted at the beginning of the Syrian crisis, Turkey has largely supported the government on Syrian policy, while public opinion has largely withdrawn its support in recent polls, recognizing the vortex in which it has been entered. The people do not want an intervention with Syria. Only 18 percent of the people agree with the government on supporting the Syrian opposition. This proportion of the government's public support for Syrian policy has fallen, the American report, conducted by the German Marshall Fund and received the opinion of Turkey's public opinion. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we want the war to end in Syria as soon as possible. We want a secular and democratic Syria that guarantees the freedom and equality of all ethnic and diverse peoples living in Syria, Arabs, Kurds, Alevi Nusayri, Armenians, Assyrian Suryans and Turkmen. What matters to us is the will of the people. We have never supported the Assad regime that continues to kill its own people, nor can we. The regime must change in Syria, of course. However, this change should be not by outside directives and policies, but by the will of the people of Syria as a whole. On the basis of the will of the people of Syria, a free, democratic and secular Syria must be created, and those rights must be guaranteed constitutionally. Turkey's foreign policy for Syria should be on this exact basis. Turkey conducts its foreign policy through Kurdish phobia. It is clear, however, that such foreign policy will bring nothing to Turkey. What Turkey should do is cooperate with Syrian Kurds and other peoples and extend its hand of friendship. In this context, when Turkey develops positive relations with the Kurds in Syria, we want to express that we are ready to support it as the Peace and Democracy Party. It is important and human to welcome Turkey to refugees who seek refuge in Turkey by avoiding the conflicts in Syria. However, we regret to follow that Turkey is pursuing different policies. Beyond war-based policies, there should be policies based on friendship, while dialogue with ethnic and religious-based people living in Syria should be followed in the opposite way. Dear lawmakers, there's nothing more natural than a country's self-interest as it forms its foreign policy. However, while policies are being formed, a number of universal values such as democracy, human rights should not be ignored. While globally creating foreign policy over the values that all human beings accept, acting with a number of religious references or building their politics over it will make that country lose. We think that's the situation our country is in. In this context, we would like to express that we do not agree with the approaches to developing hostile relations with the people, ignoring their wills. It is a fact that the Middle East contains many problems that have been intertwined. However, neither the Middle East nor its people should be condemned to an image associated with negativity. Middle Eastern countries have the potential to launch peaceful development by mobilising their people and their internal dynamics. Respect for the will of the peoples of the region to live together, the sovereignty rights of states, the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, a prerequisite for providing lasting peace and peace on both countries and on the national scale. When the Justice and Development Party government and state officials talk about Syrian Kurds, they must remember that millions of Kurds live in their own country. This attitude is extremely hurtful and exclusive for people with relatives in Iraq, Syria and Iran. These remarks will be perceived as a coup to the conscience of millions of Kurdish people living in Turkey. We are opposed to any interference with Syria because the deepening of the war will mean the loss of people's lives. The Syrian Kurds should have no reason to intervene in Turkey if they want to claim their rights and govern themselves. Such an attitude is also unacceptable in terms of international law. The future of Syria must be decided by the Syrian people, not by the outside forces. If the Kurds and other peoples living in Syria desire a democratic, autonomous structure for themselves, this decision must be respected and respected. Whether Assad stays or goes, there will surely be a new structure in Syria. What is important here is that we strive to make the new Syria a democratic and secular law state that respects the will of the people. Mr. President, in the days when civil war began in Syria, the Justice and Development Party's Government, which could not produce politics, has become more disreputable in Syrian policy and Middle Eastern policy, exposing the hastyness of lateness. This policy has changed Turkey's macro targets for Syria, and Turkey has focused its entire Syrian policy on blocking and corroding the achievements of Kurds in Syria. All public opinion is closely monitoring the ongoing conflicts in Syria. In the last few days, there have been intense conflicts in Serekaniya, Resulayn, across the district from Ceylanpınar. Unlike previous conflicts, the Free Syrian Army is being fought between armed gangs like El Nusra and Kurds living in the area. Turkey should adopt a role that prevents these conflicts from happening, but Turkey is not making any effort to end these conflicts, but it supports these groups. The fact that Turkey is collaborating with groups that are not even known for its component of the Free Syrian Army and have no legitimacy at all will lead to this country's loss in the first place. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the Syrian Kurds are not our enemies, they shouldn't be made enemies. The policies developed through Kurdish phobia must be abandoned. What Turkey must do is engage in dialogue with Kurdish leaders from the Kurdish National Council there, particularly the PYD. Moreover, no matter what ethnic, religious, religious, and cultural heritage he has, not only the Kurds, but all the peoples of Syria, different beliefs, have the right to be ruled by their own will, and that is the only way a democratic Syria can be shaped. He says Syria has the right to determine the future of its people, not another country, but the people who live there, and I salute the General Assembly again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit01spe0044par0467	Thank you, Mr. Dora. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0044par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of Turkey's 32nd Union of the Grand National Assembly. Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner, we're going to continue negotiations on whether or not the motion for the motion to ask for a gene is on the agenda. Government? He's in position. Now it's time for the nationalist movement group. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Bursa MP Necati Özensoy will speak. Here you go, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0045par0008	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party's Minister for Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yıldız on behalf of the People's Party of Turkey's Group of National Movement, which the Constitution has submitted in accordance with Article 106 of the 98 and 99. Of course, my friend, who spoke on behalf of the genus owners and the Republican People's Party Group, has explained a number of issues with some very important documents. The main issue of this gene is the Department of Energy, of course, about the boron mine, about both corruption and politics. Bor, of course it's a strategic mine for Turkey, everyone accepts it that way, everyone thinks so. However, in regard to this strategic mine, the state has made some attempts to breach such a number of mines from time to time in 1983, including other mines. We've been considering some of the things that have been done, sometimes, with the idea of opening a hole in the wall -- by mistake -- but when we put it all on top of each other, I'm afraid there are some bad scenarios that we can't think of. Now, look, for example, a bag of laws came in here on June 27, 2012. Again, they placed a temporary clause in the law related to some changes in Law 2840. If we hadn't warned this law, if we hadn't discussed it with the relevant ruling party officials, if this law had passed as it did with that interim material, there would be no obstacle to privatisation of the boron mines today. By adding a word to it... what does it say there, in the interim? In addition to Article 2840, the domains under Law No. 2840, which are later included under Law 2840, and later merged with these fields, are privatised by the Executive Administration's Office on Privatisation Applications 24/11/1994 and under the Law on Privatisation Applications 4046. We were only able to correct it by adding the word "Linyit" to it. Our friends from the ruling party agreed to what we said was true, and they corrected it with a motion. Now, if we hadn't seen this, if this law had passed -- as I've stated -- today's boron, or any other mines that had been stateed before, very comfortably, in this bag of legislation, with one item added to it, this ordeal would continue. Now, again, in this subcommittee, there has been another interim study of words such as capacitance, ore extraction, elimination, elimination, cleaning and washing, packing, haemorrhage, oremployment -- such as issues -- that have not yet come to parliament. This work was a more vague statement before the subcommittee was made, and I think it's not really a very sufficient statement, because with all of this, maybe the mining licenses will be in the hands of the government, but there will be no obstacle to handing over these businesses when these businesses are wanted or when someone wants them to. Therefore, we are only removing it with good intent, and the purpose of it is this. These laws do not come out with such words. So I'd like to put it this way that everything is clearly written here, in order to stop what might happen in those tomorrows. That's what everyone should know. Now, the boron is really, as I put it, a strategic mine, a very strategic mine for tomorrow. So there's a lot of legends about the boron; there's a lot of legends about energy, sir, where things are actually being invented, but they're being invented, and so on and so forth, but now with the current studies, especially with studies of sodium boron hydrogen, we can think about how much this technology is working at cost on current energy today, but we can say with movement, we can say, maybe today, energy engines or energy tools working on the boron, maybe 30 times as much as it is today, but in tomorrows, like any technology, I think that this technology is going to be a high chance of falling to the level of hydrocarbons, as it is today, but I think that we should all of us, like all of us, in the Republic of Turkey, we should be able to look at all of our babies like this. Now, since it's about Meat Mines, especially since there's meat mines and corruption there, maybe it's done in the right way, but I'm going to ask him if he's got it in his conscience, and I'm going to ask him with his certificate. The Minister has written a warrant to the PM's office concerning where the meat mine is currently renting. It says here in one paragraph, under the article entitled "Results of Prime Ministership Protections" of 2007/3, the article titled "Gayrimence and Rentals" shall also be issued by the public institution and its organisations, on no basis abroad or abroad, asking for permission from the office to rent this place, no matter what name it may be, the camp, the school, the education and so forth, the land and land related to it shall not be bought, it shall not be subsidized or rented, etc. And do you know how much this place is leased for, precious MPs? I don't think you know, 280,000 lira a month. Which is, come on, the size of the building, etcetera, is debatable, but the three-year lease was paid in advance. So, $10,80,000 plus VAT, this building is now unusable at work in the Mine of Meat. It was rented with a 3+2 model, with several units of the General Directorate, which was identified as the appropriate plot, which would be built by TOKI and finished by three years later. If this building doesn't run out in those three years, our Eti Mining Company has left here in two years, at an additional price of about $8-9 million, and on the grounds that the buildings require renovations and will cost 15 trillion liras. Now, by running away from 15 million renovations, if this goes back to the fifth year, this rent will pay about $21 million a rent. Now, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary if he's come clean on this matter on his conscience, as well. The legal assessments have been made, and they're all applied, and so on and so forth, but I personally would like to ask Mr. Secretary here if it's appropriate to pay $10 trillion in advance, both austerity measures. Of course, the Ministry of Energy, as stated here, is a ministry, with the most corruption, the most investigations, the most arrests. We've also seen a lot of bureaucrats being investigated, imprisoned, arrested, punished recently. Of course, the Ministry is in charge of the audit, of course, but while we, as opposition lawmakers, are using the authority of the citizen to control us, I would like to say that we are also very desperate in this sense in parliament, in the CSI Commission, which controls these institutions. Because, while we're doing the CSI Commission audit, along with reports from the Court for a year, we're in charge of those commissions, including information that the Court can't send us or send us, but believe me, the CSI Commission has no sanctions. Here's what's going to come out in a little while, Mr. Secretary, here's what's going on... if your appeal to the courts is corrupt, etc., etc., but the relevant review boards of the ministry, the review boards of institutions, as far as I'm concerned today, I'm afraid we've all seen a lot of investigation files where they've been completely pardoned until the minister comes in. Now, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to bring up something that I've asked the commission during this budget talks, but I haven't been very specific because of the time limit, again about BOTAS, about BOTAS International. Despite the fact that the BOTAS International Limited Corporation is a tax paradise on an island, it is an institution that operates the BTC line, the pipeline, but has long been appointed to the head of this institution and the board of directors of this institution, I'm afraid that it has not been carried out by the General Board of Directors and Board of Directors of Directors of the Court until it has been dismissed. Here it is, again, that the ministry of 40-related enterprises, enterprises, and joint partnership activities should be carried out in accordance with the laws, regulations and regulations. Again, despite what it says in the first joke, the ministry for the purpose stated in the first joke is also authorized to subject the accounts and transactions of these enterprises to inspection and appropriations, to determine their economic and financial status. I am afraid that despite the fact that this is an international company, such as this one, which is based on the purpose set up in the first joke, I am also able to assume that there is a commitment to a firm outside of Turkey. Now, with the appointment of these, which is misassigned, what happened, what happened? But I'll tell you this: BOTAS International Limited has been suffering for years, operating the BTC line, and it's the last time that BOTAS International Limited has applied for this damage, so it's worth hundreds of millions of dollars, so it's about now, and it's about a number of years from now. Now, in the past few months, we've seen the BOTAS International Limited Company sit down on the BTC line and sign a contract again. However, the Court reports also say: "In the case of continuing the appointment between the General Manager and members of the Board of Directors of the BIL and the General Assembly outside the General Assembly's decision, there will be public harm if the appointment of the BIL General Manager and members of the Governing Body is not legal and their actions will be invalid." Thus, if some problems come up in the future related to the BTC line's operation, it will be caused by the minister's negligence or a number of such attitudes, which are clear and clear in the reports. And also when we're making this deal, Mr. Secretary will say that, because of this agreement, we've paid $100 million so far, we've covered our losses. Look, we've already been there to compensate for the damage we've done so far, and the Republic of Turkey has spent close to $20 million on this issue. However, the further compensation clause states that the company agreement will provide a minimum amount of 150 million cubic metres per year to its designated operator by BOTAS, confirming that the fuel gas will not charge more than 57 dollars for 1,000 cubic metres of gas, or will not attempt to ask for it. Now, it's a subsidiary of BOTAS International Limited BOTASH. This is 150 million cubic metres of gas from 57 dollars, which is born from the deals we made with Azerbaijan again, which he gave to us -- our right -- to BOTASH. And what right do they have to pass it on to the BOTAS International Limited company, which needs to be seen as a plus on their balance sheets -- or by BOTAS -- or by BOTAS, which is causing damage and causing serious damage? There's no way to figure that out. Again, in this agreement, there are articles about the subsidiaries, about the involvement of foreigners in this company. So this contract, so it's in the Court reports again, and this contract by BOTAS International, is made with the BTC line because it's definitely not a matter of public interest, it's a matter of public loss, and I want to express it from here. In the future, as I said again, I think we'll come up with some very different issues. Now, I see the Minister's statements, both in the budget and recently, about the cost of these prices of electricity and natural gas, appear to be a bit of a joke to both us and the citizens. There, in the budget, as he compares the figures of the past, he talks about 1/1/2002, which only took place at the beginning of 2003. By 2007, if you remember, the last government didn't give any raises, and you could see these expressions everywhere in the 2007 elections: here, we didn't raise electricity, we didn't increase gas. And so the citizen really thinks, here's a government citizen who doesn't raise electricity, a government that doesn't raise tubes. These are the basic entries of the citizen. He voted for you, but unfortunately, after 2007, that's the year we have to base on... In 2007, how many kilowatt-hours did the citizen receive on his salary, and how many kilowatts does he receive today? Their comparisons need to be done well. So we also have a problem with the process -- if we look at it as the area that we're going to say, there may be words that we're going to say for hours about all of the energy ministry's institutions, maybe about each of its institutions, but because of the time shortage, I can express this. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0046par0028	Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0045par0029	The work at the Department of Energy is important. Turkey's strategic issues and the issues that should actually become national policy are not being done. And especially recently, Mr. Minister has not been paying much attention to both the Court reports and the information and documents that we have provided regarding these irregularities and corruption. And for that, I'd like to extend my regards to all of you by expressing that this gene is correct. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0046par0032	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Aksaray MP Ali Reza Alaboyun. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0047par0036	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs are about Mr. Taner Yıldız, our Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, CHP İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu and his friends (11/25). I've made a pledge to the AK PARTY Group about the lu Gensorial Introduction. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, our country's energy supply security is highly important in our party policies, with increasing energy demand being considered, creating policies for our energy supply security. In this context, the diversification of energy sources' transport routes and energy technologies to reduce the risks of energy supply security, the integration of nuclear energy into the system, the evaluation of our country's sub-ground and above-ground resources in a way that will give high value to the country's economy, the diversification of energy efficiency in each community of energy supply and demand. With the increase in energy demand in our country, the world's energy demand continues to rise on a global scale in different areas in each country. Global energy investments increase every year to meet this demand. According to International Energy Agency data, about 38 trillion dollars will be invested in the energy sector on a global scale between 2011 and 2035. Turkey is the 21st and most coal-producing country in the world's primary energy generation, the 26th, the 26th in gas consumption, the 14th in natural gas consumption, the 14th in power consumption, the 20th in electricity consumption, the 17th in the highest in coal reserves, the 13th in the most coal-producing country, the 12th in electricity production, the 12th in the geothermal energy capacity, and the 16th in solar power capacity, and the 16th in wind power capacity. Turkey is the country within the OECD countries where energy demand growth has been the fastest in the past ten years. Likewise, since 2002, our country has been the second largest economy with the highest demand rate since China, which has increased demand in electricity and natural gas. Projections by our Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources show that this trend will continue in the middle and long term. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to address some basic indicators of where our country's energy sector has come in the last ten years. As a result of high growth rates in our country, year-on-year electricity energy consumption has been averaged 7 per cent to 8 per cent for many years. In 2002, our electricity production, which was 129 billion kilowatts, increased to 230 billion kilowatts by the end of 2011. According to production capacity projections, this increase will continue over the next ten years, with an annual average demand increase estimated at 7.5 per cent according to high demand scenario, 6.5 per cent according to low demand scenario. In 2002, the power of the electric power board, which was 31,846 megawatts, reached 55,785 megawatts, up 75 per cent by the end of October in 2012. As of late October 2012, the number of power plants in our country rose to 743. Our power distribution line reached 812,399 kilometers in 2002, reaching 1 million kilometers as of October 2012. On the other hand, in 2002, the length of the natural gas pipeline, which was 4,500 kilometers [4,215 km], reached 12,215 km [12,215 km] today as the ongoing lines were completed. In 2002, the natural gas transmission line to our five cities in industry and dwellings, and to our nine cities only in industry, reached our 71 cities as of today. Dear lawmakers, in order to increase the share of renewable energy sources in energy supply, we have carried out extensive work that will motivate both legal infrastructure and the sector. In 2002, our hydropower, 12,241 megawatts, reached 18.747 megawatts as of late October 2012, with a 49 per cent increase. As of today, Turkey, which is described in economic categories, is now in construction of 37 per cent of its annual potential for 140 billion kilowatts of hydraulic energy, 21 per cent of its power. At the end of September 2012, 302 new wind projects were licensed to power 8.953 megawatts. In 2002, only 19 megawatts of wind power reached 2,106 megawatts as of October 2012. In 2002, our renewable power supply, 12,277 megawatts, increased by 65 per cent to 21.114 megawatts by the end of October 2012. In 2002, our electricity production from renewable sources increased by 34 million kilowatts per cent in 2011 to 58 billion kilowatts. Dear lawmakers, supply planning by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources is aimed at uncovering all of our potential for domestic lignite, stone coal, oil, natural gas by 2003. In this area, studies are being carried out on the condition that coal fields are transferred to the private sector and brought to the economy under the name of the General Directorate of the Turkish Coal Company, Electricity Productions Corporation. In addition, in order to determine our country's coal potential more accurately, starting in 2005, we have launched a coal-seeking move by mobilising the resources of our relevant organisations, particularly the General Bureau of Mines and Search and TKI. As the potential for producing electricity energy from our local sources used in electricity production, there is a Linite reserve that has the power to build 17,000 megawatt plants, along with newly discovered areas by the MTA. Turkey's Coal Company General Directorate has 2.8 billion tonnes of linite reserves, which continue to tender the private sector by redevance for the use of electricity production. Our investments in oil and gas domestic search have been increased by about 15 times more than 2002. As of the end of 2002, our domestic bid for $42 million was planned for $610 million in 2012. In 2002, the drilling metre, 77,000 meters, was estimated to be 247,550 meters in 2012, and was provided at the end of October 2012 at 148,428 meters. TPAO's vision of meeting our growing need for oil and natural gas from domestic and foreign sources has given investments great momentum, particularly by directing our country's activities to the Black Sea and Mediterranean areas, with its new search strategy developed in recent years in line with its mission. Our country continues its work in Azerbaijan, Iraq, Libya, Kazakhstan, Afghanistan, Colombia and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to contribute to raw oil and gas supply. Dear lawmakers, the complex geological and tectonic structure of our country has allowed various mines to be found. Turkey is among the 132 countries mentioned in world mining from underground resources, in the 10th secret as of the variety of minerals. Our country is rich in metallic raw materials, energy raw materials, and geothermal resources, particularly industrial raw materials. Today, 77 of the 90 types of mines trafficked around the world have been identified in our country. It produces about 60 species. The changes made in Mining Law 3213 have brought movement into the sector, providing significant increases in exports and national revenues in the sector. Under these provisions, new criteria have been set to ensure efficient use of resources in mining activities. In this context, our country's mining resources have been liberated from the players referred to as the chantistically, and the real investors have been cleared. As of the end of October 2012, 4,309 mining licenses were applied, and 3,315 licenses were issued, including 2,059 searches and 1,256 business licenses. As of 2003, the amount of public-private mining drilling, which was 100,000 metres in 2002, has now reached a level of 1,500,000 metres. In the search for metallic minerals and industrial raw materials, drilling has also been weighted, with significant improvements in these studies and findings for the existence of new minefields. As a result of these studies, 300,000 tonnes of copper, 60 tons of gold, 4.5 billion tons of dolomite, 2.4 billion tons of calcite, 40 million tons of ceramic raw material, 919 million tons of feldispat, 573 million tons of quarts of quartz sand, 406 million tons of marble-natural stone, 1.7 billion tons of rock salt reserves, 646 million tons of sodium sulfate potential reserve. In 2002, our mining exports, which were about 700 million dollars, took place in 2011 at $3 billion,876 million, and at the end of October 2012, $3 billion, 355 million. In 2002, the GDP of the mining sector was $1 billion, 900 million, while in 2011, it reached $11 billion, 500 million, and in the first six months of 2012, the amount rose to $5 billion. Dear lawmakers, I'd also like to talk to you about the boron mine, which is the issue of the gene. As a result of the work of the General Directorate of Mines, the Boron mine, where we have 72 per cent of the world's reserve, has made significant progress in production, sales and export numbers over the past decade. In 2010, the General Directorate of Mineral Enterprises gradually increased market share to 42 per cent, with investment policies and effective marketing understanding that has been followed in recent years, and in 2011 it was 46 per cent. The meat mine has been world leader in the boron market since 2005. In 2012, it was estimated to take place at 50%. In 2002, boron chemicals, with 436,000 tonnes, and production of products were increased to 1.8 million tonnes in 2011. In 2012, the production of boron chemicals and equivalent value, 2.1 million tonnes, was programmed and produced by 1.5 million tonnes as of the end of October. While the share of concentrated products in the export of boron is reduced, the share of boron chemicals and equivalent products is increased due to the high value of addition. In 2002, 65 per cent of the boron chemicals and the equivalent of the product, 35 per cent of the sales composition in the form of concentrated boron, and now 92 per cent of the boron chemicals and the equivalent value of the product have turned into 8 per cent concentrated boron form. In 2011, the amount of boron exports increased by 446 per cent compared to 2002, to $829m, while the total debt sales amount increased to $850m. In 2012, a total of $815m of debt sales were scheduled, including $790 million exports. At the end of October 2012, $462m was exported. The gross profits of 2012 were intended to be $797m, and gross profits reached 559m by the end of September 2012. About 7 per cent of the total sales revenues of the mine were made up of foreign sales revenues in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to make a brief mention of the work done by the meat mine. In 1996-1997, I became vice president, vice president of that institution. The services taken there at the Meat Mining are purely intended for receiving services, and it's a process that has been done for a very long time, and it's definitely not a rejection process. Here, service is mixed with redevance. Law number 2840, Mr. Baykal, is a law passed in his day, which has been passed by him. Turkey and Etibank have taken full advantage of this law. But right now, the charges against Etibank executives are all dropped. Once again, our friends, perhaps for technical reasons, need to make a distinction about rejection by receiving services. The field is yours in Redevan, the land is yours; you give it to someone, and you say: "50 percent of the mine you're producing is yours, and 50 percent of the mine I am yours. Sell 50% yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0048par0066	We know you're giving by 15 percent!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0047par0067	But you can't do that here according to 2840. The license is Mine's, the field is Mine's; it can run it into the private sector, buy it, transport it, wash it, bag it. After all, he buys the whole mine, the meat mine, his marketing, his sales. That's the difference between receiving services and rejection.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0048par0068	Did you ever go to the factory and see what parts it was made in?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0047par0069	Regarding another alleged issue, information on the defamation business in the Bigadic Bor Company of the Eti Mine, and on whether the contract date or the contract date was approved by the Public Contraction Act after the agreement was ratified that none of the firms who co-operated in the interview of the People's Contraction Law under Article 40, and Article 42 were allowed to participate in the tenders that the public institution and its institutions would be involved in.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0049par0070	Because the Department of Energy didn't give the ban!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0047par0071	Therefore, the claim that the tender was tendered in violation of Law 4734 is completely baseless and inconsequential, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0050par0073	Thank you, Mr. Alaboyun. In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Taner Yildiz. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0077	Mr. President, we have been promised on behalf of our government, the esteemed lawmakers, about the general who opened up about us. I salute your committee. Mr. President, it is a duty of democracy to give information to the nation, its representatives, its representatives, about the work and transactions of those who serve in the power and power of the nation, to address questions and interrogations, to bring them into these questions and interrogations, to answer them, to answer them in one other statement. Since I began my post as Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, we have responded with great precision and transparency to the demands of you, under this roof of our nation and under this roof, of any information regarding the work and procedures of our Ministry of Ministers, of verbal and written questions. We responded on time to around 900 oral and written question motions during the mandate, and we briefed you lawmakers on the work of our Ministry. The account is a control mechanism given by our great Parliament to the MPs, which must be dealt with very carefully by those who are responsible for the geneorization. We also need to take this very seriously, so that our lawmakers, who have given the loan, think about it in such a way that they can and will do so, have we made a mistake in any way? I asked my friends if there was a place here we missed. In fact, what I'm about to tell you in 20 minutes is that, without doing any research on a very straightforward subject, without reading about relevant laws and documents, even if it's read, even if it's understood, we'll see that it's been put into this gene, which I'm about to tell you about in 20 minutes. Mr. President, esteemed MPs, the allegations have been read and explained. Our country is a state of law. There is no reference or pleasure in an application in the legal state, and the rule of law must be followed. You can't just give one person a right, and you can't just take one person's rights. If it's a crime for you to bid on a company that's not allowed to enter into a tender, it's a crime to ban a company that's not prohibited from bidding. The legality of our work and actions is parallel to the rights and interests of our nation. Now, we're going to see if the procedure here is legal or not. The claim is against law and law. The conditions and competence to participate in the public tender law and in the relevant legislation are clearly organised. According to this, if they are a capital company, the capital companies, which they share more than half of these people, can't participate in public tenders. In the tender process, the assessments that governments will make on their own are not enough. In this regard, the institutions must also make confirmations with the Public Loan Agency during the process of signing contracts from the beginning of the tender. So far, everything's normal. The tender is a 110m-ton capacitor for the Bigadic Bor Business Directorate, which was held on 25 June 2009 by the General Directorate of Eti Mines. The tender focused on the associated business partnership, which offered the most economically advantageous offer. In this tender process, it has been asked whether there is a ban on joining the tenders of separate public institutions and organisations, each of which constitutes a business partnership from the Public Contraction Agency on July 1, 2009, and later on June 5, 2009, the contract date.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0052par0084	Who's supposed to give the ban?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0085	▪ Is there or is there not a restraining order against these companies?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0052par0086	Not because you didn't. Not because you didn't make the decision you had to make.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0087	Now, fellas, while you're slandering me about something, I'm specifically saying...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0052par0088	Watch your language! It's not slander, it's documented.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0089	How come when I'm patiently listening, when I'm talking, you're talking?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0052par0090	But you're wrong, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0091	Friends, please! Listen to me when I'm talking, please! Look, I've listened to you with great patience. As a result of all these meticulous correspondence, none of the partners with more than 51 per cent of their share in the tender ban list have been identified. After all these meticulous correspondence and confirmations, the contract in question was signed with a business partnership. All business and transactions in this tender process have been completed, as in all tenders, in accordance with regulations and regulations. I'm deeply sorry to hear that such a claim, which has no grounds for any research, has been used by such an important mechanism as the gene's. There's no Department of Energy in our country, and I'm talking about official correspondence. Now a document is given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and it is said: "The Ministry of Energy has done the work of concealment. The Ministry of Energy does not, did not, will not, will not, will not do this kind of tender after this. These tenders are made by the General Directorate of the Mines of Meat, which is related and related to my ministry. Not to the company in question, but to a business partnership, including this company. Companies that create this partnership and partnership are not banned from bidding. No company that has been banned by the Mining Company has ever been given a tender, and the reverse procedure has not prevented them from bidding. It is now said: "Is there a public case against some of the authorities related to this company, and are there verdicts made by the courts related to them?" Yes, the civil suit has been filed, and the provisions of this matter are soon decided to distribute their documents to your side, not by word, but by photocopy. But if it wasn't researched enough, if it wasn't researched, if it wasn't considered, then there's a mistake and there's a curve here, my friends, due to ignorance or intention. I agree with what's happened so far, so I'll take it from here. The company's officials, who have been prosecuted and convicted by courts, are not partners in the company. I'd like to point out that for those of you who own more than 50 percent of the shares, it is against the law to try to get a company that has no more than 51 per cent of the shares in this company to be banned from participating in the tender. Now, my dear friends, there is another court order on this matter. On 31 January 2008, a liquidation business is being held in the area of Afshin-Elbistan, and this company is receiving it. The company, which comes from companies involved in the tender, argues that a public case has been filed against the tender-related company, which is grounds for the reasons we're talking about here, and says it needs to be excluded. That's what he's demanding from the Public Contraction Agency, and he's doing a written application, and he's doing a very legal thing. The Public Contraction Agency does not approve this request on 24 June 2008. So the plaintiff's moving the company to the relevant cause. You know, we have to make a case, and he's taking it to trial. Case, Ankara 4. He's being held by the Supreme Court. The allegations are almost identical to what was expressed in this gene, because the reasons for the gene are removed from there, but the answers haven't been received. And the defense of Public Relations Agency has included the following statements: "Is there a partnership with the company's company officials who have been filed with the company's company due to a civil suit, as one of these officials, as the general manager of the company, as well as others, as well as the company's representative and a representative of the company, in case there is a decision to ban the company from participating in tenders in Article 4734, as well as a decision to ban the company from participating in tenders on behalf of one of the representatives or persons in charge of the institution.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0053par0097	This man is the CEO of the company.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0098	So it's being asked exactly the way it's being asked here. This verdict is not found, so the court rules that the dismissal of the case is required by decision 2278 in 2008. This company also decides to dismiss this case. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been briefed on the second issue of the business of the Meat Mining Company running on boron salts, and I'm not going to repeat it. To support the allegations of this matter, His office gives two consultations in 1999 and 2000, and the latest consultation of the relevant office of the State Department is being issued on the relevant clause of Law 2840, which changed on 26 May 2004. I'm not going to get too technical. In matters related to service purchases, in matters related to running businesses, in matters related to working mechanisms, these are clearly said.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0054par0101	What services?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0102	Now, folks, about that matter just now -- that's not all -- there's also one court order on that court order. The decision made by this court is not enough. Ankara 4. The Supreme Court's 19/12/2008 date and 2008/2278 verdict, on appeal of this decision from the District Attorney's Office, 13th District Attorney's Office. His apartment also confirms the decision dated 4/4/2012, which means the court approves its decision.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0055par0103	He approves because you haven't made a restraining order. According to Article 58, it is your Ministry that should make a restraining order.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0051par0104	Now, fellas, I'll tell you one little thing: this company is still not banned, you know.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0056par0105	It's your fault!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0055par0106	According to Article 58, the Ministry must decide to ban it.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0056par0107	You're corrupting the tender. Let's make it love!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0108	Now, if I were you guys here, I'd go to the state's attorney's office instead of giving up such a complacent gene.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0055par0109	Look, read Article 58 and Article 17; your Ministry must decide to ban it.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0058par0110	We're giving you the gene because you don't forbid it.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0111	I'd say to the Public Prosecutor's Office of Energy, even though the Ministry of Public Relations has decided to do so, the court, Ankara 4. Despite the ruling court ruling in favour of the Ministry of Energy, Court of State 13th. As much as the agency gave in its favor, I would press charges against the state's attorney.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0055par0112	The order of that law is not your pleasure.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0113	Now, friends, let me not talk too long, I invite you to something. Right now, the tender has made its contract.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0059par0114	Not like Erdogan Bayraktar, but this invitation!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0115	I'm inviting you to something very clear. Now that the contract has been made and the process is ongoing, if you can submit this firm to the documents that you trust so strongly that it's banned, I'll get it to stop with the bidding.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0060par0116	You have to make the restraining order. If you don't give it to me as a minister, no other agency can.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0117	Now, let alone a congressman, even a citizen, has the right to press charges in the state's attorney general's office. So, now, look, here's what I don't see in this... and I'm speaking in person again, I'm sorting out my other congressman friends. Because I know that inside the CHP, we have friends who don't sign when they're offered this gene. That's why I'm saying...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0061par0118	Who's that? Explain, explain!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0119	No, no, I won't tell you that.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0062par0120	Who is it?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0121	He said it because he trusted me.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0063par0122	You're not telling the truth. Explain who?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0057par0123	He told me because he trusted me.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0063par0124	Explain, explain! Explain, who?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0064par0125	Who didn't sign it?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0065par0126	Who, who?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0127	No, I won't.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0067par0128	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0129	Look, now, in a highly respected institution like the Undersecretary of the Treasury, a friend who's been head of Treasury is not allowed to make such an outrageous mistake. You throw your shoulders at someone in the middle field, and the audience says, "Was that a foul or not?" But if you do a penalty strike, no one will forgive him.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0067par0130	Minister, it's coming again, there's plenty more!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0131	That's why you've made such a mistake. I'll photocopy the paperwork... where the waiting friends will pick it up. They're all court-martialed, court-martialed... is there anything more? Do you have somewhere else to go?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0067par0132	Is that why you changed 11/a?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0133	You're saying that this is my subjective decision. It's unacceptable, my friend.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0068par0134	Mr. Secretary, let's get down to brass tacks.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0135	Now, look, about all this KIC and judgment stuff... Now, look, don't say it as CHP. If you're asking about the matter you're complaining about moving to Emet, why isn't it done in Bandirma? It's Sedat Pekel, the mayor. The application for the production of sodium sulfate answers as follows: We can't look positively at the project to produce boric acid and sodium sulfate from the borax solution in the Borax and Acid Factory Management Department area. You can't do that to Bandirma. That is why our viewpoint and viewpoint are negative, he says. It's not enough, it's not over; investments in Bandirma are being written again about the boric acid factory, and we want to build a factory like this.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0069par0137	What does that have to do with the allegations? What does that have to do with the allegations against you?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0138	Dear friends, right now, the mayor of this Bandirma, who will consider employment...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0069par0139	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0140	You may not like it.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0069par0141	You answer to the bidding. What's that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0142	I've listened to things I don't like, and you'll listen to them, brother, no. For all these reasons, when research is done to reduce air pollution to a lesser level, the expansion and capacity of the Etibank boric acid factories...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0069par0143	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0144	Guys, I'm rereading this statement. But as a natural result -- look -- we can't positively look at the expansion and capacity growth of the Etibank boric acid factories. It says it's about capacity growth.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0069par0145	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0070par0146	Mr. Secretary, tell me why you didn't bring a restraining order.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0147	That's why our view is negative.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0070par0148	Why didn't you forbid it? Mr. Secretary, why didn't you forbid those who were corrupting the tender?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0149	Friends, if our friends want to, you can distribute their photocopies. Guys, I'm sorry, I mean, I'd like to use sentences that you like, but I really can't use them. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, we're dealing with a gene that we don't know which institution is the tender, and the work and transactions that are done by the agency are not completely isolated, let alone all of them, with the logic of such carelessness. I wouldn't have made a rhetorical statement about the rule of this great Assembly, but if I say ignorance, it doesn't suit a person who served as head of the Treasury Undersecretary. Now, friends, we'll all pay for what we've done in all our transactions in this world and in the Hereafter, for what's good and what's bad.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0071par0154	Crossing the line bridge!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0155	If we've done a good deed, we'll get it back, and if we've done a bad job, we'll get it back. It's not appropriate for us, my friends, to feel the need to defend ourselves when we're having a hard time explaining what we're doing as EC PARTY governments. This might be a little high in the ratings you want to raise in a week, but it's a pointy arrow on both sides, fellas.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0072par0158	Mr. Secretary, you're paying 300 trillion dollars to a company that's been corrupting the tender. Don't you look good in that tone!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0159	If that arrow doesn't stick to the other side, it'll come and find you. So, if there's any further reduction in your party about your reputation, I have nothing to do with it, folks.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0073par0160	Mr. Secretary, please tell me which CHP member didn't sign it! Look, in a very good way, who didn't sign that motion?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0161	Also, if you want to shrink the generators and work on dignity, there's nothing the AK PARTI Group can do about it, I'm telling you. You don't have a free job, you'll be able to stand up for something you said.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0073par0162	We're stopping, we're stopping, don't worry!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0163	I'm going to send you copies of all the court decisions, all the court decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0074par0164	We'll send you the Trade Record papers and court orders.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0165	The more important it is to punish people for bad deeds, the more important it is not to slander honest people. That's how I knew, I misunderstood. There's no such thing, it's a gene, you're using a serious institution.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0074par0166	It's very serious, and we don't misunderstand.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0167	So you don't have the luxury of apologizing, and you don't have to apologize, but you're going to take these papers and read them to the end.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0074par0168	We'll read it.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0066par0169	Now, there's a very common habit here. If I told someone: "I heard something about you stealing or robbing a bank, two people said it on the street." Now it's said: "I asked you this question to find out if there was such a thing!" So I asked you to learn. I can't say. So, I'd like to invite all of us to consider the reputation of the MP. I salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0075par0172	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0076par0173	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0075par0174	Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0076par0175	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made a lot of insults and misinformation, starting with the slander I made during his speech. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer these from the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0075par0176	Please, come in before the new taunts take place.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0076par0180	Mr. President, everyone knows I have a tone that won't allow for any new bullying. Mr. President, I'm asking you two basics. Mr. Minister says: "The partners in this tender are not in charge of representing the company, and they are not in charge of it, they have no partnership." Now, if we bring in the Trade Register Journal, and this person named Yasar Giragiz becomes the general manager, Muzaffer Nasıroğlu becomes the principal? Second issue: 4. There's talk of the ruling of the Supreme Court and other decisions. When you look at the rulings of the Supreme Court, this company seems prohibited because there is no restraining order. Who's the ministry that needs a restraining order? Department of Energy. Do you have an obligation to receive the ban on 58 and 59? I do. You send the papers to all the MPs here, and I'll send the papers. I'm telling you very clearly, send me the papers, and I'll send you my papers. Dear friends, the foundation of law is legitimacy. A company that was deliberately involved in the bidding was given 230 trillion additional tenders by its own Ministry. Second, it's law enforcement. The 58th and 59th Articles of the Law have made it mandatory to be made in the event that companies, partners in capital companies, and persons in charge of representation, and persons in possession of the contract mixes with the tender. This company is not banned because the Energy Ministry, which should be making this decision, has not made that decision. This decision was made because the Court of Administration's decision to issue a notice and restraining order was also cancelled during the same period. Now I don't tell the Minister anything, slander, or whatever, like he said. All I'm asking is that you send the documents with me to all the MPs, and I'll send them to all the MPs. All lawmakers decide. The other thing, my friends, is that you're talking about the seriousness of your gene. I've been putting it up with court decisions, documents, dates. If this gene was so serious, if this gene was based on hearings -- if I'm going to hear the decision from whom -- why did you guys buy this on Friday without seeing the document? If you'd come, if we'd bought this on Tuesday, the whole public would have seen it. Is it the Republican People's Party, which has gone after this corruption, which has led the entire House and its people to the wrong decision with false information, incomplete information, misleading information? Is the Minister of Energy right? I'm waiting for all documents from the Minister of Energy, and neither of our claims have been answered. One, Law 2840 is run in the private sector while the state-owned government requires the operation of the boron mines. Secondly, a company that has involved corruption in the tender has been given a tender in violation of the Admission Act. I'm waiting for all the documents from Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0077par0190	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0078par0191	Mr. President, I'd like to have a word with you. Mr. President, I'd like to take a brief word to make a statement since he has given false information to the public.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0077par0192	I mean, it's not that much, but here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I've never seen anything so misleading. Together, you both said it, but come on in -- there's nothing -- explain it to me.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0078par0197	Mr. President, thank you. The book on the Public Relations Act says that the documents may be difficult to make a copy of -- says: "They can't participate in the tender of public institutions and organizations under the Law until the end of the second clause of Article 58 of Article 58, when they've been ordered by the Public Relations Agency to prosecute a person who's being prosecuted by the First Amendment under the First Amendment, according to the First Amendment.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0079par0199	Can you read Article 58?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0078par0200	They're already bidding...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0079par0201	Can you read 58? Friends, it's not a person who's bidding. It's not a person, it's not a person. Can you read Article 58?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0080par0204	You wondered where she was, where she was. The court's decision is here, folks. This is the court's decision to appeal.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0079par0205	Mr. Secretary, can you read Article 58?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0080par0206	I suggest one more thing: we send these papers to the MPs, it's not enough, but you send them to court, okay?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0079par0207	Can you read Article 58?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0080par0208	Send all these courts together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, here's the thing about the boron: we sat down, we stood up, we talked, we weren't gonna privatize. There is no concept of privatisation of debt over the past decade in any of the areas of government-related activity in the statement of the EC PARTY governments. We're not privatizing the pipe, guys. I'm using a sentence that's not available for misunderstanding.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0081par0211	Yeah, and you said you wouldn't sell thermal power plants.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0080par0212	Bor won't be privatized, and the Boron won't be privatized in their 2023 targets, and it's not in the plan and program, but it's going to be: friends, let your pipe be in the business of taking care of other jobs... now, because my time is twenty minutes, I can't use it, so I'm going to send it to you. Think of a process, $109 million in favour of the public, with a field of service. Why shouldn't we use it for our country? Now, a service-related factory will be built. Dear friends, in front of the public and in front of all of you, a handful of pipes -- whether it's a tube or a processed substance -- can't buy and use any business. One goes in, one weighs 100 kilos, and the other goes out, and the public controls them all. There's no misunderstanding that these services have been taken. The defibrillating business is a very different business, and it's no big deal. In that sense, the public profited over $109m in 2011, and there is no other corporation with an estimated $1 billion turnover that can make a profit of $1 billion. I congratulate all my colleagues, my honest friends, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0082par0216	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0083par0217	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0082par0218	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0083par0219	In his speech, Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu and our fellow MPs have accused our group of MPs who did not sign the motion within the Republican People's Party, which is that they did not sign it, because they did not, because they did not. I'd like to make a statement, sir, on the grounds that it's against the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0082par0221	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. (Applause)
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0083par0224	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Minister, have stated that some Republican People's Party MPs did not sign the motion signed by Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu and our fellow MPs on grounds that they did not find it right. It's a completely unrealistic claim. Mr. Secretary, if he's made such a discovery, I'd like to invite him to state his name. No small talk, no mud, and no sitting down. I'd like to ask the Minister a question: a significant portion of the members of the Council of Ministers are not here. We can also interpret this: members of the Council of Ministers, who are not here, are not in the General Assembly because they find it right about you. (CHP turns) We can interpret it that way.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0084par0226	Including the Prime Minister, including the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0085par0227	Where are your folks? They didn't believe it, so they didn't come either. There's 20 of you in 120.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0083par0228	Now, our friends with the motion, our friend speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, have made his claims. Mr. Secretary came out here to defend himself. But Mr. Secretary didn't give me the answer, and I carefully followed the question: According to Article 58 of the Public Contraction Act 4734, the decision is made to ban those who have committed the act and conduct of Article 17 of Law 4734 from taking part in the tender. • The Ministry of Energy, which will make this decision, Mr. Secretary. The verbs and actions of Article 17 are a misdemeanor of the tender, a conviction of bribery and other crimes. It's all in this case. According to Article 58, the Minister has not disclosed why he has not decided to ban the tender. The point is, the subject can be explained by using a few sentences, a few minutes. For your information, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0086par0231	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0087par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0086par0233	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0087par0234	Mr. Hamzacebi has just made an unrealistic statement about our non-committee ministers, Mr. President, and I need to correct him.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0088par0235	Who's it about?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0089par0236	No, he didn't say that. He said, "Would it be right if he told you?"
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0090par0237	I mean, the government has to answer to him, but...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0088par0238	Sir, about the government...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0239	Sir, the group, Mr. President, on behalf of the group...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0090par0240	Since you have a band, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0092par0242	I'm sorry, Mr. President, the government already has representatives. So on behalf of the government, Mr. Group Vice President can't take any promises.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0244	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, our ministers are members of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. President, dear friends, so relax. Now, first of all, I'd like to point out that our ministers who are unable to participate in these talks have sent their power of attorney to vote, a significant portion, or even nearly all of them.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0093par0247	Tell the minister, not us!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0248	And we've introduced those power of attorney to the presidency, so let's put that first. Secondly, dear friends, look, there's a missing point: In order for the issue specified in Article 58 to be active, the second joke of Article 58 needs to be read very carefully.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0094par0250	Before you come to 58, read 17. Come to 58. Decently...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0251	Let me... let me... Look, please, we're discussing a technical issue, so in the event that the corporate people who have a restraining order are a private company, in the event that they have a capital company, the real or corporate person who owns more than half of its capital is decided to ban partners based on the first joke clause. Here's the thing, if...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0095par0254	What actions?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0255	Let me... Look, the employees of a company in any way, under any title...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0096par0257	His partner, too.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0258	...the fact that their employees have filed a civil suit against the tender does not necessarily require a ban on that company; one.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0096par0259	Mr. Canikli, his partners, too.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0260	Secondly, there is no restraining order against the company, even in the event that its partners, who own 50 per cent or less, have a 50 per cent share, are being sued in any way for tampering with the tender. So let's say that the company has five partners, each with a 20% share, each with a...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0097par0261	Can you read the rest of 58?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0262	I know very well.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0097par0263	The rest, the answer.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0264	Each one of them was convicted or sued for misbehavior in the bid. There is no restraining order on this company, not legally. I'm not discussing the right part of the job, the wrong part of the job.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0098par0265	Look over there, over there. Tell them, tell them, don't tell us.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0266	Look, dear friends, I'm not discussing the right part, the wrong part. We're discussing the legality of the matter.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0099par0267	Can you read the rest of 58? You don't read the subject at hand.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0268	In order for this to happen, in this discussion, there can be no restraining order against the general manager or the manager or any other company employee, as a result of misbehaving the tender, that company he works for. That's what the court order says, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0099par0269	Can you read the paper on your hand? Just read 58.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0091par0270	It's very clear. So all the allegations that have been made about this gene are illegal, irrelevant. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0100par0273	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0101par0274	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0100par0275	Please, Mr. Hamzacebi, just a moment.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0101par0276	Dear Canikli...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0100par0278	Wait a minute, I can't hear you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0101par0279	I want to thank Mr. Canikli for his explanation. Of course, they couldn't explain the answer to my question themselves. However, they took responsibility for my criticism of the government. I hope they'll be the first to look after the change of government. But I also want to ask: Ten days ago, there was a change in the Public Contraction Law, and our friends expressed it here. Does the company have anything to do with the change in the Public Contraction Law? Has this law blocked this record because its collateral will be recorded in the Treasury? That's not cleared up either.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0102par0283	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. You want a word, come in, you'll make a statement, come in. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0289	Mr. President, dear friends, let me repeat some of my words. Right now, this company is talking about two different things, but if you try to substitute one for the other, you're not only cheating on the law, you're cheating on our MPs. Once again, there's a company -- Trade Records is here -- the company's partners, the Public Contraction Agency, they say...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0104par0292	After the arraignment has been changed!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0293	If there are more than 51 percent of them, if there are more than 51 per cent public cases against them, it is forbidden to tender them. What's he doing in the Trade Register? In the Trade Record Journal, the company's official is not a partner.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0105par0295	How many dates is that?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0296	With a job that's legal...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0105par0297	When's the tender?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0298	And I'm stressing that there's a difference between being legal and being ethical.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0105par0299	Would you look at those dates? Look, look at the dates, when is the tender, when is the trade record, when is the deadline?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0301	Guys, you can't force me to do anything other than be legal.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0105par0302	Look at the dates! You're cheating on our MPs with dates!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0303	With their dates, I say: 13/05/2005's Trade Record Journal has not signed this work, which we call "Temsil and probate authority."
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0105par0304	When did the arraignment change?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0106par0305	You've changed the arraignment!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0306	So he wasn't his partner, plus he didn't sign the offer. Now, this is about our company...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0106par0308	What if he doesn't, he's not in charge?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0309	Guys, it's about this company, our institutions, so the bell is going into the grinded limestone contract at the thermal plant, and it can't get it. Three million euro fines are being fined for his previous activities. Afşin-Elbistan Barrackville is also taking over this firm, and the CIC rejects the appeal of another firm that has entered the tender; and Emet is normally eliminated because this firm and this one have not fulfilled its findings in time. Now, what we've been told is, why didn't you ban this person? Friends, the Public Contraction Agency forbids it, you can't have them. It says, "You can't have them," and this man isn't in the tender.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0107par0311	Who will decide, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0312	One, he's not in the tender, so why is this guy...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0108par0313	If he doesn't go in, the CEO of the company...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0314	Friends, please don't be misled.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0108par0315	You're wrong!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0316	Right now, the company, I'm telling you again, this company is not banned at the moment.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0109par0317	You didn't make the forbidden one, you'll make the decision, your Ministry will!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0318	Please go to the Attorney General of the Republic and tell him: "Ya, this company that has been banned, even though it has a court order, it's about 4. Even if the agency has a decision, even if the Public Contractor's Office has a decision, I want it banned again. I call upon you to speak openly of this, instead of giving false information, go to the attorney general's office of the Republic...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0110par0319	Mr. Secretary, you're giving the wrong information. It's a shame, really!
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0103par0320	...make your objection that this firm is banned. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0111par0323	You didn't make the restraining order.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0112par0324	Thank you, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0113par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0112par0327	Mr. Hamzacebi, I can't hear. Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0113par0329	...I just stood up and raised a question, Mr. Secretary didn't answer that question. Silence comes from a plea. So the latest tender law change was aimed directly at this company. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-30sit02spe0112par0334	Members of parliament, talks on whether or not the motion to ask for a motion on Energy and Natural Resources Minister Taner Yıldız is on the agenda has been completed. Now, I submit to your votes as to whether or not the motion for the geneorization will be taken into consideration: those who agree to the motion of the gene... those who refuse to accept it... are not accepted. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] According to the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (December 4th 2012) to discuss the proposals for the bill and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
