tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can answer these talks, the government's response period is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement is from Mr. Zeynep Karahan Beslis, a member of the Şanlıurfa MP who asked for the appointment of the International Day of Mine Development of the United Nations on April 4th. Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to honor the International Day for the Development of Mines. Landmines aim at women, children, old, all around the world, and every day, 12 people on this planet die from mines, or their arms, their legs, are crippled. At this point, Turkey is not among the 26 mine victims with heavy losses in terms of mines laying, but is directly among the issues as a country with 977,407 mines in its territory by the end of 2010. In this context, the Treaty on the Use of Antipersonal Mines, Storage, Production and Transferring, which regulates international obligations and is known as the Ottawa Convention, has been opened to the signatures of countries since 1997, but Turkey signed this contract as of 2003, when the EC PARTI government came to work. This, of course, is an important development in the interest of demineting our country. On the other hand, this contract, signed by 156 countries, has not yet been signed by 40 countries such as Israel, America, China, Uzbekistan, Armenia and Syria, and it would be appropriate to receive a call from this country, rather than to be responsible for the injuries and deaths of those who are mostly their own citizens and have no crime, rather than to fulfill their responsibilities to their country, to their communities and to the most extent to humanity. In this context, significant distances have been made in our country in the fight against land mines after 2003. The signature signed to the Ottawa Convention has been cleared of all antipersonal landmines in our stocks by 2011, and a significant distance has been taken from fulfilling our obligation to clear mines in the same contract as land. The tender process is now in the final phase under the Law on the Black Border Cleaning of Mines between Turkey and the Syrian Arab Republic, which took effect in 2009. The mines on the Syrian border are 613,766, making up two-thirds of the total mines in our country. In this context, as one of the lawmakers of the province of Şanlıurfa, which has the largest borders with Syria, I should stress that this work, which was envisioned to be completed in October 2016, would be taken at a considerable distance in our country, particularly as a matter of removing the problem, and would be underlined in the use of our fertile farmland. On the other hand, there is a 52.4m-euro project within the framework of pre-accession EU financial aid, where nearly two-thirds of the cost of mine removal of our eastern borders is covered by European Union funds, and the project is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2013. Our National Defence Ministry has completed its work on the formation of a national mine operation and a mine operation centre, which will coordinate all issues related to mine removal, and is scheduled to be submitted to the Prime Minister within the month. In this context, I would like to underline the importance of the act of civil sensibilities on the subject through the government's effective work, which I have personally contributed to, through the United Nations and International Mine Prohibition Campaign, which was conducted through the initiative of Turkey, which was created by the United Nations and International Mine Prohibition, none of which could justify the death or injury of 5,000 people who had been recorded last year because of their landmines, and that no philosophical opinion and revolution, no war and no peace search, none of which could justify the actions of all the countries using the organization to sign up to all the landminees and to sign up to all the countries. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that this is horrible and cowardly, and I salute our coven.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you, Mr. Goody. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Hatay MP Hasan Akgöl. Here you are, Mr. Akgöl.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been given an increase in electricity and natural gas at the weekend, forcing their mercy measurements. I have taken an off-the-topic commitment to express my views on this matter. I hereby salute your high council. The high-profile electricity and gas increase at the weekend is clearly the result of false energy policies and poor governance. Our people are paying the bill for government procurement guaranteed natural gas deals. On top of the many bills paid by our people, this is a additive. In recent years, our country has provided most of its electricity needs through natural gas powering plants. This is due to the government's failure to develop alternative policies that are mortgaged on Russian and Iranian gas in natural gas. The active hydropower plants are not fully operational due to the guaranteeed natural gas deals. With this herpes increase, not just large populations trying to bring bread to their homes, but farmers, tradesmen, industry -- the entire private sector -- are negatively affected by these increases. The AKP government has stopped breathing all living creatures in this country over the weekend's electricity and gas increase in fuel increases. Perhaps for the first time in the history of the Republic, a government does not give its officer a salary raise, but does not backfire on electricity, natural gas, fuel, one-on-one April prank. These people don't have the strength to deal with April Fool's jokes. In the coming days, these increases will be seen as new increases in all goods and services from needle to thread. These raises will come out, and time will tell us how much the government will face the people who are moaning. 15 per cent of electricity, close to 10 per cent of the illegal rate used by others, three in a row with the return of this increase to consumer goods. I'm asking you, how is this citizen going to handle this raise? The third raise in a row while we wait for a sale on electricity, while we wait for the removal of the VAT. In our region, while waiting for a reduction in electricity used for irrigation in Turkey's irrigation fields, this raise is expected to be removed from the VAT. The farmer's already closed 2011 to the victim, and he's already covered it with damage. What about this farmer? That's what I want to ask you. The citizen is going crazy with these consecutive raises. Look, guys, before these raises, the citizen was going crazy. On top of these raises, what will happen to the citizen after all this overlapping? That's the question I'm asking. Now, my fellow lawmakers, we've come here on average to get 100,000 votes. Isn't it our duty to protect the rights of the citizen we take this game for? The ruling opposition, I'm asking everyone: So how are we going to deal with this citizen's misery? We've come to take this citizen's vote, how do we deal with this plague, this sin? Allah says, "Don't come to me with the right of a slave." Well, don't you get the right of a servant for the wrongful gain of 10 per cent of illegals who will be born to companies because of the wrong deals you've made? Friends, Allah says, "Don't come to me with your rights. We, as lawmakers, must honor the votes we have received. We can't stand the plague of the people, my friends. So, I say to all of my fellow lawmakers, please, that we must do everything we can to get these raises to withdraw, without the government giving us the benefit of the opposition, by giving us the benefit of the vote. I salute you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you, Mr. Akgöl. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Khakat MP Reşat True, who wants to speak about the problems of the Turkish world. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the issues and proposals for solutions of our relations in the Turkish world. I salute the High Council. At the beginning of my words, I strongly protest the rise in electricity and natural gas. Right now, all the social layers of our people in this direction are in rebellion, and everyone's expecting a great deal, and I'm saying that these raises must be taken back and that poor wretch's rights should be protected. Congressmans, in recent years we are in the environment where relations with the European Union, the United States and Africa have been tried to improve. Unfortunately, the Turkish world, which should be the main concern of our nation's future, is ignored. The Turkish world is not only interested in the Adriatic until the Great Wall of China, but the Turks who live all over the world. To become a great government is to take care of its citizens and its descendants all over the world. For the past decade, however, the Turkish world in AKP's rule has always been pushed to the second, ignored. Some ruling institutions have been tried to establish, but the Turkish Co-operation and Development Agency, established to improve relations with the Turkish world, has also been changed and rerouted. The purpose of this organization, called TİKA, is related to the Turkish world. This is one of the most obvious indicators of what power's view of the Turkish world is. Thus, relations with the Turkish world are falling apart day by day, weaknesses are happening, relationships are almost falling apart. For our nation, our relations with the Turkish states of Central Asia must be at a very good level, but see that the problems with Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzistan, Kazakhstan, and Kazakhstan are not being solved, and they are getting worse every day. Most of Azerbaijan's territory is occupied by Armenia, and we need to own it as a great state. The Turks of Azerbaijan, who were forced out of their own territory, were massacred, are our brothers. Relations with Uzbekistan have not been corrected or even made any effort to improve. In addition, the Iraqi Turkmen live under very difficult conditions, thousands of Turks were killed during the Iraq invasion. US-sponsored coalition forces have withdrawn from the so-called Iraq, but the pressure on the Turks is increasing, as there is no withdrawal. There are massacres in all regions, including Kerkuk, Mosul, Tuzhurmati, and forced migration. Sadly, there were no promises of their return, and neither did the government. They're excited to know when we'll be back home, and unfortunately, they're waiting. Violence and pressure on East Turkic Turks living within China's borders is increasing day by day. Turks are persecuted, nuclear trials are being conducted in Turkish regions, their descendants are threatened. Turkish Cypriots' earned rights are headed towards losing at the table. The Turkish Cypriot state, founded in the blood of martyrs, should not be able to prevent the survival and survival of the Turkish Cypriot state. The Cyprus case is the future and hope of the Turkish nation. Members of parliament, the Turks in Europe, especially Germany, must be taken care of. The President of Foreign Turks and Relative Communitys should be more active and supported. New projects for foreign Turks must be introduced, and our young ones must be taken care of. With national and spiritual value, young people must be protected, especially against all kinds of destruction, including drug use, and especially our young ones. Members of parliament, as well as our general thoughts and recommendations on the Turkish world: The ministry of the Turkish world, which will regulate all our relations with the Turkish world, must and must be established. The Latin-based Turkish alphabet resolution is vital to the future of the Turkish language and the Turkish world, and the work and practice of this road must be completed and must be concluded. Turkish literature and history should be studied in the educational institutions of the Turkish republics, and for that, common curriculums must be prepared. Guidebooks that show the similarities and differences between dictionaries and grammar rules at all levels must be prepared. Thus, Turkish dialects would be understood not as languages but as dialects and dialects with phonetic differences. The work on developing a common language that will be linked to the Turks of the world must be continued without losing time. The works of literature and ideas published in Turkish states and communities must be adapted among all Turkish dialects. He says that the days of common poetry and art should be arranged, and that writers and poets should be allowed to get to know each other, take advantage of each other's works, and thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0007par0061	Thank you, Mr. Right. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the problems of natural disasters and earthquakes and to determine the measures to be taken, we demand that Parliament's Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution. On October 23, 2011, hundreds of people died in an earthquake in the province of Van, and the injuries after the earthquake continue to heal. In addition to the recent earthquake, this natural disaster, which caused great suffering in the Marmara region on August 17, 1999, has appeared once again to be insufficient in the state and institutions, where scientific measures have not been carried out, and in pre-quakes investments and improvements and postquakes. On the other hand, the earthquake, which appears to be a geological event, is also a sociological dimension, and there are poor people who died, were homeless, or even long without tents. An earthquake is also needed to be examined in this regard. Turkey is a country where 92% of its population and the region of the earthquake are in danger of earthquakes. Reports of the earthquake show that there is no serious public preparation or investment in this issue. The report of the earthquake commission established at TBMM on 4 February 2010 said that Turkey was incomplete in the construction of buildings prior to the earthquake and the construction of buildings that could not withstand earthquakes and the construction of after-an earthquake damage detection. The report, on the other hand, showed that Kızılay was no longer the Red Moon in the 99 Marmara Earthquake, but that there was no such improvement in the latest Van earthquake. The work of the commission has been insufficient, and in fact, real experts and rooms in this area have been seen to work without contacting civil society organisations or even citizens who risk earthquakes. Therefore, a more effective commission should be established, not temporary, such as any of the other residency commissions, but a continuous commission of parliament must be made. Over time, the Law on Science and Social Development and Needs has been able to focus its functions solely on wrapping up its functions in the political pressures and similar effects of political impromptuness, disaster services, as well as political pressures and similar effects. In view of the current system's functioning, it is known that disaster services have negativeities such as a significant focus on post-doc wound wounding and becoming the only policy in practice, the failure to develop damage reduction tools due to the system's weight after the disaster, the dissolution of the laws related to the development law, particularly the Building Law, and the control of the institutionalisation process. The most serious and crucial problem at the moment is that the state has not established almost no network of information and communication with society and with the community in many other areas of post-1999 studies, possible earthquakes and earthquakes. In light of all this information, we propose a parliamentary research commission to establish an effective disaster policy as well as the necessary legal arrangements for disaster management and its policy, to form the building control by meeting the local government's vocational rooms and experts, and to actually investigate the measures. [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Mardin]] [[Kars]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98 to determine the measures and measures that must be taken by identifying the problems of disabled citizens in our country, whose numbers are about ten million, and to produce and implement healthier policies for disabled citizens. And the Civil Charter 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully offer and offer the opening of parliamentary research. While there are no complete statistics on the number of disabled people in our country, 12% of the total population is expressed as disabled. This means about ten million disabled people. The social structure of disabled individuals makes it difficult for these citizens to live in a functional union with society. The disabled, who have to deal with many problems other than their own, have to live with low quality of life, and are denied the right to carry out the individual with a basic human right. The biggest obstacles to the participation of disabled persons may be transportation, physical environment and housing problems. When the physical environment is being built, everyone who lives in it has to be built by consideration. It is a fact that not all environmental elements from the dwelling to all public areas and means of transportation are designed by consideration of the properties and needs of the disabled. The inability to meet the need for rehabilitation for disabled persons is another major obstacle to the integration of disabled people with society. Unfortunately, our country today does not have sufficient education and rehabilitation centres for disabled persons. The main obstacle to the integration of disabled people with society is employment. In our country, there has yet to be a methodical job analysis and occupational identification study that monitors disabled persons. In many jobs, disabled people create experience of working with their own initiatives. In advanced countries, however, job analysis, occupational definitions are extremely important. Another challenge is that the tools used in facilitating disabled employment are undeveloped and not implemented. Some facilitating ways of employment are being sought and applied throughout the world for disabled persons. It is one of the other issues underlined in Standard Rules that the environments where the disabled will work are designed and designed to meet their needs, to support technological development that will facilitate the employment of the disabled. The unemployment rate among the disabled labour force in our country is not fully known today. However, it is expressed as 99%. Even if this ratio represents about the truth, it seems sufficient to display the dimensions of the problem. Therefore, the problem of employment of disabled people, which is one of the most important aspects of their disability problems, is expected to be resolved as soon as possible, in the focus of social policy. The work of disabled persons and the protection of unemployment must also be done to meet the need for legal regulation in accordance with international documents. Although there are many legal regulations that facilitate the lives of disabled persons, they seem to be far from meeting the requirements, and in practice they are unable to even benefit from the rights that exist through different practices, bureaucratic obstacles. In our country, as in the world, the vast majority of the disabled have come from the poor parts of society and have lived in poverty. It is stated that disabled families cannot send disabled children to school because of their financial problems. A research commission should be set up to investigate the problems of the disabled in our country, to improve low quality of life as soon as possible, to ensure that they can participate in production, and to ensure that they can live as individuals who are self-fulfilling. 1) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In order to investigate torture, abuse and inhumane practices that have been reported in Erzurum H-type Closed Prison, which is often referred to in public opinion with violations of rights, the Constitution of the 98th century has been established in order to identify the responsibilities of public officials responsible for these practices. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully present the opening of the Research of the Parliament. Erzurum H-type Prison Closed is constantly on the agenda for violations of rights. Several complaints have been made by prisoners and prisoners, relatives and lawyers in this prison. These practices are stated as punishments for Kurdish speakers, detention of Kurdish literature, collection of nearly all available books by the prison administration, closing the library, bad food, lack of sports, arbitrary disciplinary sentences, torture and abuse. According to the testimony of the prisoners, six-man groups of execution guards were formed by the prison administration. These groups beat the prisoners rudely, abused them, and threatened the prisoners, saying they came from Metris Prison. The treatments of patients and prisoners are among the most pressing issues for inmates and prisoners, whose treatments have not been treated, and why doctors often changed. Patient prisoners, whose diet is vital to them, are not given dietary meals. The request for transfers of sick prisoners to prisons where diet can be applied is completely ineffective, despite all applications. Prisoners and convicts say that the 45/1 district, published by the Justice Department, has not been implemented at all or has been limited to an hour or so. As they pass through the corridors, it is stated that prisoners and prisoners are not even allowed to greet each other. The Erzurum prison of Erzurum, which is the winter of 8 months of the year, does not have a closed gym for prisoners and prisoners. Therefore, while it is vital to exercise in a prison environment, prisoners and prisoners can exercise for only four months a year, an hour and a half a week, even though sports are vital. Prisoners and prisoners also state that the physical conditions of the prison do not have the standards described in regulations and generalities. Erzurum H Type Prison, which is a former type of prison and is later transformed into a high-security prison, has no ventilation for cells. Windows are a quarter of the size of the standards that should be. Since hot water for prisoners and prisoners is limited, it is used only for taking showers. Hence, hot water is not provided for washing laundry and other cleaning needs. For lack of a haircut in prison, the hairs of prisoners and prisoners are cut in the corridors. The majority of the prisoners and prisoners found in Erzurum's type of prison are of Kurdish origin. However, they are prevented from communicating in the mother tongue of these prisoners and prisoners, and Kurdish speakers are given various penalties. In addition, Kurdish publications are strictly prohibited from being kept in prison. Almost all books and publications in prison are reportedly collected by the prison administration. In the face of all the unjust practices of the prisoners and prisoners in Erzurum type prison, Erzurum Chief Public Prosecutor's Office and the Chief Justice's Office have been sent to our side where all their applications have failed. In a prison in Turkey, the practice of such unlawful and inhumane treatment is unacceptable to a state of law. Therefore, it will benefit from the presence of the physical conditions of Erzurum's type Closed Prison, the ongoing study of torture and abuse practices, and the detection of those responsible for these practices. Congressmans, the motions for research have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Three of our friends are in the system, so I'll give them a minute, one minute at a time, from where they are. Mr. Firat, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0008par0190	Thank you, Mr. President. The government finally showed its true nature, voted for years by doing poor literature, but we found that on Saturday, the government passed the law against buying VAT from its ally, and on April 1st, it put a raise on our citizen's back. So I condemn the government for its actions.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0007par0192	Thank you. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0009par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. While Prime Minister Tehran was in the United States, US Ambassador to Ankara Ricciardone said Turkey expects to reduce oil imports from Iran in the context of sanction decisions; Minister Yıldız announced that some of the oil from Iran will be taken from Libya; TÜPRAS announced that the purchases from Iran will be reduced by 20 per cent. Minister Yıldız on the one hand said that oil from Iran would be reduced, but on the other hand, an increase reached 19 per cent of oil, electricity and natural gas. Minister Star has shown the political turmoil in the region, or Arab Spring, as the cause of the raises. Mr. Secretary has forgotten that their power has contributed to this political turmoil. Those who are eager to intervene in Syria will see what progress these hikes will take after that intervention. These raises have bent the backs of the poor, the poor, the small and fixed masses. While the government gives the officer a 3 per cent raise, a 21% increase in transport, there is no such thing as a 20 per cent increase in oil, a 20% increase in natural gas, a decent and social responsibility.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0007par0197	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0010par0200	Mr. President, thank you. Now, is it enough to say that the recent raises are from foreign relations, from our neighbors? Natural gas, diesel, electricity, tube; which of our revenues has increased so much? I'd appreciate it if our senior ministers could explain it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0011par0203	Thank you. Mr. Tanal and Günal have entered. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0012par0207	Thank you, Mayor. Last week, the VAT law on private hospitals' investment was passed here. Citibank's debts have been expunged in the past, no taxes on the stock market, and when foreigners sue Turkey, they are exempt from tuition. If all of this had been taken, it wouldn't have been so high for citizens, electricity, water, gas. I'd like to suggest, please, that you give this privilege to the foreigners as well as to the citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0013par0210	Thank you. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0014par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Nice, who has just been taken off the agenda, has made a brief statement about the mines. I've been promised an additional piece of information. Thank you. Mr. President, in 2014, all land mines had to be cleared under the Ottawa Convention. Unfortunately, we still haven't fulfilled that Agreement. Our friend made a statement as if it was all over like this, but the bidding process is still going on. Here, as you may recall, we had a meeting about a month ago, and the Constitutional Court cancelled the issue of giving foreign companies that land in exchange for clearing mines. Thus, at this time, a normal mine-cleaning tender has not yet been completed. After it's finished, all of it needs to be cleaned by 2014. In addition, this law covers only the borders of Syria; yet there has not been a study, a separate tender process, or a separate proposal of law, a bill of mines in other parts. I wanted to bring it to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0015par0217	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0016par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. I brought it up in the last session. There are constant power outages in Ardanuk district of Artvin Province. I've also given Mr. Secretary a written motion on the matter, but as soon as I ask this question, and as soon as I speak to the House, these electrical difficulties are often experienced. Citizens are in a state of severe victimization, electronic household goods, electrical goods are deeply damaged. Therefore, I find it helpful to bring this matter to the attention of a city people's victims on the agenda of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0017par0224	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0018par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask our government the situation of certain roads in Çankırı district: Between Korgun-Kursulu, between Leechli-French, between Çalkırılı, between Çarkar-Ilgaz-Chançı, Çankırı-Ankara, the roads are highly neglected and out of standard. When will these roads be maintained? Is it considered to send a new grant to Çanrı, where the funding for the road that has been broken in winter has ended? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0019par0231	Thank you. Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0020par0234	Mr. President, our Minister of National Education has made a statement and has announced that the university's audition has been revoked in the middle of the training season for the past 25 days. However, both the parents and the students, even the schools, were doing their plans, their work schedules accordingly. There's been a really serious gap. Therefore, on behalf of all student parents and students, I request that the Minister of National Education reconsider this decision and that this decision be implemented during the 2012-2013 season. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0021par0237	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Members of parliament, according to the decision, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters in the 2nd place, as well as with the Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Public Officials' Unions Act and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission and the Plan and Budget Commission reports in the 3rd place. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed by 200 rows of numbers. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP who wants to speak on the whole bill. Mr. Commander, please. (x) 200 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0022par0260	Mr. President, dear friends, we're talking about a change in the union law of public workers number 4688. The existing law passed the House in 2001 without the approval of its negotiations. The workers at the time described it as a fake union law. This law had no right to collective agreements or strikes. The new bill was not prepared by receiving opinions, demands and proposals from the parties. This law does not have the right to free collective bargaining and strike. The principles of the International Labour Organization and the European Convention on Human Rights are also a very backward law. It's a good idea to refresh our memory. Until the 1990s, civil servants, called the state officials, had only the right to form an association, which was considered a government official, who had to obey him. The destruction and destruction of the Neoliberal system had made them workers, even though they were called officers or public officials. So they rejected the organization order, they formed a union, there was nothing left for them; exiles, sentences, jails, procrastinations from office, one after another. The pressure on union leaders has increased. The unions they formed were sealed by governors. The streets of Kızılay Square, Ankara met hundreds of thousands. The rallies didn't stop. He's been laid off several times. By 2001, Law 4688 was passed to stop the free struggle and actions of public workers. The unions wanted to be adjusted to status quo, order. Law 4688, which was worn on the back of a working man like a straight shirt, limits the rights to free unionisation and fighting, while state-guided unions were first established, and then the unions that were under the wing of power emerged. As a matter of fact, in 2002, only 40,000 members of Officer-Sen have been able to explain the fact that the number of members within the AK PARTI administration has been less than 550,000 members. Today, as it was yesterday, they are struggling for labour and democracy, and today, with the governor's decision, they are prevented from entering Ankara, Kızılay, again. Let's get to today. In the September 12, 2010 referendum, the government, which wants to increase its vote, added a clause in which public workers are entitled to a collective contract. I'm just saying that because he's asked all the employees to vote for this clause until today, and he's come out of the referendum, and it's been 18 months, and it's just coming up on the agenda of the new Assembly. We witnessed an example of the matter of haste and priorities yesterday, a law that quickly came about the do-and-doers. When it comes to laborers, when it comes to disposables, when it comes to bare thighs, for some reason, the government is too slow. Now, we're going to change the existing Union Act. In this bill, the union and the collective contract go something like this, and there's nothing about the strike. The nightly interest reckoner, the money on the stock market, that's been working the workers for months without raising wages, and those who spend most of the workforce's sweat before it's dried up, even though the laborer's sweat has dried up so many times that it's almost a layer, they're not involved in any of the effort. Dear friends, there have been unions around the world for two hundred years, and Turkey has had unions for nearly sixty years. There is, but there is no proper union law. The union, by its definition, includes collective contracts and strikes. No collective contract, no strike, no union of friends. It doesn't make any difference if he's got a sign that says "sindika" on it. The union is the organization of those who work hard, founded to protect their rights and interests, where if one is missing, there is no union to talk about. In the 21st century, we ask that this Assembly not approve a amendment that had no right to strike. What do you want to do here? It's called a union, and we're asked to approve the organisational status of a non-union organization as a union. He doesn't give them their rights, and he even supports his pressure on them. Hundreds of members of KESK are still in prison because they don't recognize the limits you set for them because they have expressed the demands of bread, freedom and peace together. There are lawyers in prisons, there are journalists, there are writers, is there a lot of unionists in the government's approach? You may continue to renounce the lie that we are an unprivileged, classless, socialized society. When you think about it like that, the term "worker" is always considered unpleasant. You fear the strike, let alone its execution, even its name. It's called the "Greev" with the toxic connotations that you don't drop from your mouth, like the separatist, the terrorist, the anarchist. WHEN the people of KESK came to work in their day, the owners of the workplace would pick up the phone and report it to the police. That's why wherever there's a strike, a search for rights, a unionization, you put the gendarme and the police in charge. Well, have you ever seen a boss taken into custody for hiring a worker? Or do you have an employer who you send to his door because he doesn't pay the insurance premiums, because he doesn't take the annual vacations, because he pays the salaries late? But every time the workers come together for their rights, their fate stands with the persecution of the police, the batons, the bombs, the gas, and the police. In fact, we know the cause of this fear very well, and you know it: it's a fear of the theft of sweat. Here's to the bill itself. What's the name of this bill? Public servants union and collective contract law. Who's the public servant? In the city, in the tax office, in the courthouse, in the school, in the hospital, who are paid for their labor, who are contracted, who work ten to twelve hours in subcontractors, who have to work for a living. Why are they public servants, in what sense? You won't have any public security, they won't take advantage of any public guarantees, but their names will be the public official! AK PARTY wants workers to be their employees, to do whatever they say, to take his opinion, to join his union. On the other hand, to become a public official, you have to have public enterprises, schools, hospitals, universities; on the contrary, you're liquidating the public everywhere, including health and education. Through privatisations, there are almost no workers left in the public. As part of the civil servant, one quarter of them became subcontractors. There's only one reason why you've invented public servants while laboring is increasing: to divide workers by workers and to reduce their rights by two separate laws. There are soldiers, police, judges, prosecutors, governors, governors, and you don't give them union rights. We think that anyone who wants to can form a union freely, be a member of the unions, be a prosecutor, be a cop.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0023par0270	Congressman...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0022par0271	But you didn't leave a public servant in the middle, and you call it the public official's law. What's not in the bill? There's no strike in the bill. A union law with no right to strike in it can't be considered a union law by definition. What difference does it make if the law doesn't have a strike? Prohibition and restrictions on the strike are illegal, and the path of strike and mass action is open under Article 90 of the Constitution. Not to put it into the law, but to stop it from going behind his back, is a stain that will not be removed from this House's forehead. In the same way, the definitions of the ban on the graft must be removed from State Officers Act 657, under Article 27. Not enough, public workers should be given the right to make politics and join political parties. There's no free collective contract process, you bring the fate of millions of workers and squeeze them into a month of August. Monthly fees and demands for changes in the system regarding other financial and social rights are excluded, for some reason. So the collective contract cannot be capable of disrupting the wage and monthly system. Then why is there a collective contract? Who are you kidding? Why do you insult the intelligence of the House or the intelligence of the workers? In collective contract talks, the power of representation is not determined by the free will of the employees among these absentees. It's not democratic to establish a mandate based on the number of members, my friends. Moreover, the union with the most members has been given the authority to sign contracts and has no right to object to that means leaving other unions out, which is against the ILO norms. How was the collective contract process prepared? Officer-You are thought up, KESK and Public-You have been disabled. Since the agreements are incompatible and are not allowed to strike, you will go to the Referee Board. There are 11 of them, only 4 of them from the unions. This is a grave injustice between the proportional representation of the unions outside Officer-Sen, and the representation of Officer-Sen. And they also have the right to recommend a faculty member, which, when you think of the judge union, can be considered a direct seat to the government. The other members are people whom politics, the government, will choose directly. Moreover, the board's decision is considered to be final and collective agreements, such as the Council of Ministers' decision, no objections. It would be like waiting for a good, good decision to come out of such a committee to destroy the soul of the reaper. There is no freedom in the law regarding union membership, the restrictions on Article 35 are continuing. All restrictions except military and police are against international law, my friends. 1) There is no strike in the law. The representative of the government here will answer these questions, please. 2) There is no justice in the representation of contract authority. 3) There is no time for unions to evaluate collective contracts with members of this August. 4) He is not authorized to charge or demand monthly, except for the existing system. Let the record show that 3+3 is the government's 3+3, the collective contract, the friendly market! We'll see, if there's any progress in favor of the workers outside of this 3+3, I'll apologize in front of all of you here. 5) Other unions do not have the right to object to the signing of contracts of a majority-owned union. 6) Incompatibleness does not constitute a democratic Referee Board. 7) There is no objection to the decision of this Antidemocratic Referee Board. What? After 18 months of waiting, there's a law that even limits the right to a collective contract. That is because you lied to the people. But now that you've been drumming, there's something vague about what happens when there's no strike, there's no need for that. The current draft law guarantees only the continuation of the status quo. The AKP, on the basis of the parliamentary majority, has passed law. There's a union law against the Union Act that doesn't fit the ILO norms. There's a collective contracting order that supports non-responsive unions, based on the numerical majority, which has no right to appeal. The Board of Judges has no credibility. Therefore, this bill is far from fulfilling expectations and antidemocratic. As a result, the law brought to parliament's agenda is a law for the vast majority of workers, which is, when you look at it as a representation rate of those other unions outside of you and that officer-you. There's an important matter, and I'd rather make it a separate title. Dear friends, especially social democratic municipalities, BDP-based municipalities, DP-based municipalities -- listen well to what I say -- before the bill came to parliament, an important agreement was reached on the level of the collective contract with the unions, according to the service branches. This isn't what was brought into the House, and I'd like to bring you all to your attention. With the bill sent to parliament, the Ministry scored almost a last-minute goal for trade unions and showed a deniable attitude that ignored and ignored the issue of separate contracts with service branches and local governments. According to this, these collective agreements that bind all public officials have been organised only through union confederations and have been prevented from having separate contracts with local governments with business branches. Moreover, collective agreements have been held in local service business for a long time, and these contracts have been registered by the European Court of Human Rights. As it is known in Turkey, the legal debate of public workers' rights to collective contract was the result of all municipal and local government workers' union, which is all Bel-sen, taking the case against Gaziantep Municipality to the ECHM and winning it. The entire Bel-Sen has now signed collective contracts that connect 406 municipalities and 18,000 public workers, but if the draft is enforced in this way, the gain that exists on the legal ground will be destroyed. The 22nd article of the bill, the signing of contracts in the financial administrations, shall organise the contents of contracts in municipal and municipal private administrations. So far, however, all collective agreements in the local service business, guaranteed by the ECHR, have been ignored, and this is very important. In addition, there have been many more obstacles to contracting in the local administrations, and in the last year, when there is no municipality in Turkey which does not owe almost any debt, there is no agreement in the municipalities that 30 per cent of the related budget revenues, which exceed 15 per cent of the last year's budget revenues, which have been collected by the Treasury Undersecretary with a social security bonus, will be exceeded by 10 per cent of the amount of budget revenues, although the payment period has passed, has passed, and there has been an unpaid monthly staff debt, or the total staff costs for the last year in the province's private administration. You can't find a city that meets those standards, let alone opposition municipalities, even in its own municipalities. So, why are they putting it in? To stop the union from contracting on a local basis, from contracting in the local line of work. This is an epiphany of the habit of putting into the law the AKP has seen in almost every law that it does not want, but does not want to appear democratic, but does not make it possible for it to be practical; it has invented a new drug, such as the principle of inadmissibility of provisions that I do not approve. These arrangements, which seem to be one of EC PARTY's more classicized tactics, are nothing more than efforts to deceive the worker. On the other hand, it's incredible and reckless, and I'm lying, and they're telling you, they're saying, well, it was $20, the barrel of oil is about as big as today. Well, let's see how much of the gas today has gone up, and let the same minister say here with the same cereal, and let's relax. I end by making this call: Join all the landless, all the workers, all the workers, all the workers threatened by unemployment, all the naked, all the foot soldiers; you have nothing to lose but your credit cards.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0024par0295	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0025par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I took a pledge on the entire bill on behalf of the MHP Group. Well, first of all, it was April Fool's Day yesterday, but we started off with a joke raise. That's what's on the agenda today. We've come across an increase of 9 per cent of electricity to 19 per cent of natural gas. So I waited, and the government said it was a April Fool's joke, but -- usually things like this happen, and we've seen it on the news -- it's a joke. Look to your right, to your left, I look at the order of the Council of Ministers, we have the Minister of Development on this side, we have the Minister of Finance here, we have the Minister of Economics on a raise, our Minister of Labor is not here. I mean, it's like the April Fool's Day joke. Indeed, alas, we waited in vain. When we look at something like this, it's a mitigation. When we look at it, it's also a sense of humor that makes the community feel less. When we say, "It has nothing to do with us, sir," we have to do with it. He said, "Investments outside of us." I was surprised, too, so I looked at the agenda. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, they're all having a Friends of Syria meeting, in Istanbul, I thought we were in another country. Frankly, we're both in the middle of the Arab Spring, and we're walking around like the solver of all noncompromises. We're going to Libya, we're going to Libya, we're going to Libya, and then the next day, we're going before NATO forces, we're going to Egypt, we're going to say the same thing, and then we're saying: "We're on one side, except for us." I don't understand this, but first I'd like to share this with you. And immediately, before Mr. Prime Minister from Korea comes to Iran, Mr. Energy Minister, we reduce purchases from Iran by 20 percent. Well, does it have anything to do with us? Of course I do. If you apply those policies, if there's tension, it'll increase.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0026par0302	It's called twenty-seven cents plus cost.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0025par0303	Now, the raises came out of the blue, so they were expected, but we were talking in a populist way, but since the officers, the law we're waiting for, the law we're going to discuss today, they're still without raises. Our friends are looking forward to it. First, let's make it clear that there have been statements in some advocacy media agencies and even some AKP officials that may have caused some misunderstandings, as if the opposition had delayed it. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we have made an effort to get him out of here as soon as he arrives, our friends on the Commission are here, Mr. Secretary himself, but Mr. Elvan can pass it on to Mr. Secretary. In the meantime, the subcommittee couldn't get together for more than a month, so we made a commitment to get them out fast. Of course, we want the bill to come out as soon as possible, but there are some vital issues within which the confederations can agree -- three confederations, even compromise -- that are not present here, or a few confederations, but cannot be added to the bill. As a matter of fact, we want it to be legalized as soon as possible, but we're going to give you our amendment proposals in order to correct some of the issues and wrongs that we're missing in this framework. My dear friends, I myself have been in this community since the beginning of this public unionism, and I've been Vice President of the Turkish Bank-Sen, one of the unions until I got into politics. So I'm a friend of yours who knows where this union movement has come from, where it can't even be allowed to be a member of the business, where there are a lot of courts in the district, in the administration court, and lives close by. Then I have academic duties, but in the process, when I was in bureaucracy, I did these studies very closely, and I watched them. So, when Turkey was showing those activities in Public-Sen, we had a principle, we said, "We love Turkey, we fight for bread." Our principle is that we first see a unionism, a responsible unionism, the interests of the government, the interests of the state, the whole nation, and we find that what we came to do today is to do a unionism act in relation to the developments in the world, and unfortunately, we find the provisions that are too late and too late. While you were discussing the constitutional amendment, during the referendum process, you promised in the squares as if this was going to happen the next day. However, it's been a year and a half since that change, and we still haven't legalized this bill in three months. Here, of course, I made it clear for him that the delay is not because of the opposition parties, but because we don't know why, there are some confederations or the government agenda... there are other laws on the Council of Ministers, there are 4+4+4, which are in such a hurry, including the FATIH Project we interviewed last week. It's not the school year, it's not the school year, it's nothing, but I'm afraid these important laws have waited. Dear friends, I'm afraid I have to share with you that the Justice and Development Party has been very political at these points. And during our debates on the commission, we're looking at an approach that protects, protects, protects an advocacy union. I'd like to present to you the attention of a conversation that Mr. Bulent Arinc has had here regarding these discussions, beyond observation. I'm going to share with you a few examples from the point of view of the Unional Movement of the Justice and Development Party. Mr. Arinc has given a grave speech at the opening of the Fellowship of Bursa, and then he's making some sort of correction, you know, from time to time, you know, when he's overstepping his purpose, he's out there explaining himself, and I made a mistake. He can say, "I've made a mistake." He has a virtue. I'm afraid I didn't see another correction on my Internet scan. Just like that, Mr. Arinc: We're all set now. The law will be changed, and the opinion of Officer-Sen will be changed in accordance with his struggle and the collective contract will be signed. Look, he doesn't say the union's name, he says the officer-sen's way. No one has to worry about that. But no, no, no, when I see those who tear up, where are the collective contracts now? Where are you going to sit there, brother? You don't have the right to talk about them, you don't have the right to confuse people's heads. Officer-Sen knows what to do, he has discussed it with the government, a legal amendment, a collective contract. He says there will be no delay in these rights. Now, on top of that, there's not much point to this collective agreement, Mr. Secretary, nor to the bill of the law, nor to the discussions we've had. Hopefully, Mr. Steel isn't out of the country, he'll make his move, and we'll have a chance to tell him about it. We'd like him to have received these notes in this bill that's been waiting here for so long and concerns millions of people. I mean, it's so bad. We'll take care of it in our own union. We've said so many times that there's a union going down here. In the talks on the Plan and Budget Commission, in our talks on different laws here, we have also spoken to you in the 23rd term recently. Now, look, I've asked questions, I've got a couple of them, I've got a folder full of folders, Mr. Secretary, I've got favours, staffing and assessments of this. It really does exist. I'll give you this later, this old picture, but nothing came back to me on it. Officially, in the official vehicle of a public institution, our friends have photographed, the union work, the aid, the distribution, they've all been given history. I gave it to our concerned minister in the past tense. I see now, sir, there is no such thing. I ask you what Mr. Arinc said about all of this, and I want to give you the attention of how many Officer-Sen, the relevant confederation, what happened in their trade unions. This is really bad. We call it democracy, we say NGOs are important... I don't mean to take your time, but here are just a few samples, a folder full of samples and evidence. Our friends gave it to us. Likewise, similar reports, opinions, from KESK, are coming. So we don't have to fool ourselves here. In fact, Mr. Arinc's confessions tell us very clearly that these things are being negotiated and will be done in this frame. I, biazihihi, if, you know, they're from the union, I'll share my own life with you. He's a member of our union in Antalya, and since he's reputed to know me, our union president said: "There's a pressure, they're trying to transfer our friend to the Health Union in the Confederacy of Officers." So I opened it, because I normally have a law, so what, what, what's the development, what's the change in opinion? My baby's only a few months old, God forbid we banish him from there! They say. When he leaves, I'm not going to look after the child or the thing. I'm saying I'm alive myself, it's not a sense. So there's no point in saying here we're making laws for democratic unionism. I mean, according to today's conjunctive, let's not break that law to my friends. He could be in charge of the union today or something, and tomorrow, when the conjunctive changes, another union takes over. The most important thing here, dear friends, is that this law is designed for a particular union. In a moment, I'll tell you about its content, some of its materials, and we'll see more clearly there. During the Justice and Development Party period, unfortunately, there was not much distance to work life, but studies on social peace could not be carried out. What happened? There was subcontractorization, ununion. By serving them out, by reducing public employees, they went to those companies that we had agreed to appoint temporary workers, temporary workers, to control them because of the indirect inadequacies that we no longer could. That's not very nice, so this subcontractorization is causing public services to fail. I'm expressing a look here, and I can give you a lot of examples. But what have you done now? A lot of our friends were there. We brought it in, in a bill of law -- plows, soups, you know, for days we've made a lot of additions, we've patched it up, we've packed it up -- even though there's no public service, we've arranged for someone in the private sector to be an undersecretary, a general manager, a vice president. So, how do we do it under these circumstances? So it's possible to make that happen? Is it possible to provide an effective public administration service, public service under these conditions? It's not. What do we do now? We're looking at the law, dear friends, and when we look at it here, there are a few main issues about public officials' unions, which is exactly what I'm saying. For one thing, there's a problem with coverage, it doesn't include all employees. Secondly, in the formation of the representation committee, what we've just told you is that the advocacy of the union is apparent, and it's in the form of the law. When you represent them in those conditions, they are directly under the control of the government and the advocacy union. So as Mr. Arinc said, we've already done it, so we'll do it quickly and go through it. The result comes out. Third, there's a debate here about the arbitration board. Fourth, there are fundamental issues regarding the rights to appeal, and there are some debates about signing authority. Other than that, there are some provisions in other substances, but when we look at them, unfortunately, they're not taken into account and there's not much concern in this frame, and we've already finished the work, so you can complete the image as opposition. Now, in this case, on behalf of members of the unions, confederations are not allowed to resort to the judicial path in general regulatory procedures involving all public employees. Is that even possible? I mean, you represent it, but you don't have that right. What else? We talked about the signing authority for the collective contract talks. Mr. Secretary here says: "Sister, we sit with Officer-Sen, we sign the contract." Well... he says two other confederations say: "Let's sign if we find this contract right." No, there's no adultery. Why? So, Officer-sen, I signed a contract with the government. They think he can't show off to his fans. Now, is there anything more natural than that? If there was a contract, if you accepted it, then one way or another, you negotiated it. Look, we call that negotiation "yes." But they say, "No, brother, you can't sign." Do you think that's a problem? Is there a problem when you say yes to the motion that one of you has accepted? I mean, for him, it's a very important issue in terms of representation. We're looking at numbers, and now it's valid with the absolute majority of the Union representatives. So, in part in the service arm, there's been a improvement in terms of the service arm during our debates on the Commission, but there's still no final agreement there, unfortunately, to sign the signing of the confederations in the general contract. We're looking from the other side, there's the public officials' arbitration board. There's another discussion going on here, dear friends. Under normal circumstances, we're looking at labor unions, Supreme Court 9. The head of the agency, the head of the office for business law, is directly employed, and he has experience in the matter. Now we say to Mr. Minister: "Sir, there is a very large option there, in which they say we will find one from the Court, the Court, the Constitutional Court, and choose one from the Supreme Court, and give us the authority." Now, with that much broad authority, would a panel of referees be determined, dear friends? So, again, the conjunctive is when one doesn't work for us, let's appoint the other. And we're not saying: let that be the case. So, now that he's specializing in those issues, since he's already contributed to the noncompromising solutions, there's the head of the agency, if he's not the head of the department. You know what else happens? Let us choose any one of the people who are close to 100. I mean, that needs to be made clear in the law. On the other hand, you have the right to object, dear friends. Now, the confederations suggest that if a union signs a union, as a confederacy, the other two unions have the right to object. Together, not alone, so if there's a compromise, if there's a reaction, we can argue together. We've already signed the agreement - as Mr. Arinc said - you don't have to interfere in any part of it. Well, now that the A union has the authority to represent with 35 per cent, the remaining 65% have two unions with 32 per cent and 33 per cent. Now, you will not accept 65 percent of the objection, but you will sign a contract with 35 percent. Well, where does he go when he's already objecting? Why do you object? Sir, there will be delays. They call it delays. All in five days, dear friends, there's a sentence to be concluded, a five-day delay, all in a row. At the moment, we can't just meet for a month and a half for the subcommittee, we don't count them at all. So here we see clues and examples of the government's lack of sincerity. Otherwise, what happens? So, like I just said, what if the union officials sign off on it? On the contrary, the government's hand is strengthened, the social base supports the increase they give themselves, politics is actually in the government's favor if they look at it that way. But on the other hand, let's protect the union, let's say hello to our base, let's not have any other contributors. If we say so, then we've protected the supporters, but unfortunately, we've crushed the citizens under the pressure of an ally. Let's write these down here as the general discussion of this business is being discussed, and when it comes to Mr. Secretary, let's get you involved, we'll already have motions -- as the Justice and Development Party Group, and the members of the group will contribute to these studies and will give you the rights of public employees, and we'll do studies in the ILO contracts, which will give you the rights that are stated in the Constitution. Dear friends, on one hand we have the right, and on the other hand, financial and social rights are regulated in violation of the relevant Article of the Constitution. We bring judgment. Unfortunately, we're restricting what's called unrestrictable in the submatter. And what are the civil servants going to discuss in a collective agreement without discussing financial and social rights? See what? On the contrary, the Constitution says you can't restrict it. We limit the law to the Constitution. Unfortunately, because it's in a hurry, or because some of our friends are pushing it, these issues are ignored, and in the sense of being an ally unionist, these permanent problems are already under way, and this opportunity cannot be solved. Dear friends, we -- once again -- as the National Movement Party, we agree that this law should be released as soon as possible, but we feel that they should take advantage of this right to representation, the right to appeal, and the right to press charges against members within. As the National Movement Party, I think the solution is to put the public staff regime in total reform, categorize public employees according to liabilities, driver's license, and build a fair working life by freeing them from KHK 666 and so on. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings, I thank you all, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0027par0331	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Third speaker for the groups, MP Musa Çam on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Pine.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0028par0335	Mr. President, honored members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group and wish you a good week. Because of the 4+4+4 work we've done in Parliament over the past weeks, we've been faced with a very troubled and very troubled and disapproving attitude and behavior. Therefore, I demand and wish this week to be a success and a calm one. As a result of 4+4+4 last week's work, Mr. Prime Minister gave the AKP lawmakers a meal, which we read in the papers yesterday: "We are proud but we are not arrogant, we are proud but we are never spoiled." But I also want to say that we have 49 per cent of the vote, each of our friends talking on the microphone, and every time we have 49 per cent, you have to say yes to everything we say unconditionally and unconditionally. Dear friends, you have 49 per cent of the vote, but 51 per cent is in front of you, so you have to consider 51 per cent and not ignore them. Mr. President, we are currently discussing a law concerning the future of 1,874,545 public employees and 1 million 142 thousand members of the three confederations, 53,000 members of other confederations, 700,000 public workers who are not members of any confederation, and the future of about 2.5 million public pensioners, according to the Official Gazette, on July 7, 2011. Eleven years have passed since the People's Talks Act, which was carried out on the streets in the 1990s in the streets in the squares, in 2001, as a result of the struggle for the Union's Law, which was held under the Law on Community Discussion. Eleven years later, today, we're facing a bill that is missing and full of mistakes while a public employee with a strike and a collective contract is waiting for the union law. After about three months of waiting at the Council of Ministers, I would like to say that the draft law, which was sent to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 23 January 2012, envisioning amendments to Law 4688, which had been held on commissions for a month and a half, has been a profound disappointment in the entire community, especially in public workers and pensioners. Why is this bill so disappointing, my friends? As we all know, in the September 12th referendum, the government has made several promises to public workers, as well as to many communities, in the 58 per cent referendum -- which it boasts about getting the vote at every opportunity. What were the public workers called before the September 12th referendum? ▪ From now on, you too will also sign a collective agreement. The assembly that has been in session for ten years will go into history, and you will keep your rights with the collective contract. Although there is no clarity about the formation of the Public Officers Referee Board, which will be involved in conflict between the parties, the scope, style, execution, the scope of the collective contract, especially with the usual news headlines of the secondary media, the public workers, pensioners, pensioners, and pensioners were asked to vote. In fact, in a confederation referendum known for its proximity to the government, he had mobilized for a vote of yes, put out newspaper ads, went around the county and supported the government and asked for a vote of yes. In its ten-year rule, the AKP's ruling, when we went from apprentice to apprentice in distorting facts and witnessed the AKP's power, its commitments were greatly rewarded in the referendum. But at the point where we're here, we can see that the public workers were not given good news, and that the balloon inflated with the breath and support of the secondary media exploded with a loud noise in the referendum. For 11 months, the government has not lifted a finger in order not to meet the requirements of the amendment. In fact, without the pressure of the confederations, the government's plan was to continue this year's mass negotiation system for ten years, for the grounds that the draft bill in accordance with the Constitution had not been completed. However, after 11 months after the referendum, instead of making a new law on harmonisation with the Constitution on 4 August 2011, it was announced that Law 4688 would be renovated. So the Law, which has been in effect since 2002, is far from meeting the needs of public workers to this day, as in the Constitution of September 12th, has only been envisioned in the Law, where there are restrictions and restrictions on its essence. Now, you're going to say, "Well, that's good; they called the confederations, they held meetings, and the trilateral consultation boards were convened, and negotiations were held here. Let's not fool each other. Where was the AKP's participation in democratic methods and themes seen to follow? Do those who try to lower the voice of lawmakers in the People's Assembly with the amendments to the Civil Code listen to the confederacy of public workers? As they always did, they pretended to listen, so they read their own information and wrote their own information and sent it to the Council of Ministers. Dear friends, it is not right to accuse the AKP government of ignoring the demands of all confederations in the process of drafting the law. I don't want to be unfair about it, but of course, what they've listened to, what they've asked for, and what they've done almost literally, has been the confederacy. This confederation knows much better than Dear Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, who appears to be opening the AKP election office, the county organisation building at branch openings. Mr. Arinc, let's hear what a confederate union has to say at the opening of the Burma diplomatic mission, and let our democratic culture grow on him, my friends. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister says, reminding them that they're making demands by putting the strike next to the collective contract: one of the unions yelling: "Let it be a collective contract" tried to say, "No" in terms of the MHP. The other, as a representative of the left and other factions, they also struggled to get the vote no. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bulent Arinc is in Bursa. Only Officer-Sen has the right. As honest, sincere, patriotic people, I said yes, and now I want to see the return of yes. He says that only Officer Sen has the right to say yes. The law will be changed, and the officer-sen's views will be changed in accordance with his struggle, and the collective contract will be signed. No one has to worry about that. But no, no, where are those who tear up now, when I see them walking around saying, "Where's the collective contract?" You don't have the right to sit there and talk about it. And don't mess with people's heads. Officer-Ben knows what to do, he discussed it with the government. There will be a legal change, a collective agreement. It's gonna happen. If he says AK PARTY, it's gonna happen. Who guided us? Officer-Sen showed it to me. Mr. Arinc continues: "This is as simple as this: you will not travel to me in the referendum to collect the vote, but you will ask for the collective contract, as well as the collective agreement with the strike. Is that what's gonna happen? Have you not learned that there is no room for those who do not support our advanced democracy, our policies to the end? Dear friends, does this bill pave the way for organisation by removing the ban of tens of thousands of public workers who have been banned from becoming union members with the existing law? Of course not. Where? In the first article of the bill, the union members were limited to staff and positions in public institutions and institutions, or staffed 4/A/A/B/L. Interim or other employees outside of labor status, their membership to another spring. However, there are hundreds of verdicts on the possibility that 4/C/C-lian workers can become members of the unions. It's up to you. Who cares about the verdict? As you know, the 15th article of the existing Law lists public workers who are banned from joining the union. Just a few weeks ago, the Supreme Court approved the closure of the Judiciary-Sen, established by prosecutors and judges based on this clause. For the first time in the world, the judicial body has shut down the union of its own colleagues. But the decision must have been appreciated by those who organized the bill, which is in accordance with that decision. Whatever judgment comes our way! Article 15 does not only forbid judges and prosecutors to become union members. According to this article, civil servants and civil servants and public officials working on the Turkish Armed Forces staff, central audit staffs, members of the National Security Council, members of the public officials, members of the higher judicial body, union members of the rectors, deans, managers of the institutes and higher schools, and assistants of them at the National Defence Ministry, employees of the Turkish Armed Forces, employees of the Central Security Service, staff members of the Security Service class and other members of the service departments of the Security Service, members of the public officials working in the penal institutions and employees of the Turkish Grand National Assembly are banned from the Union until they are all members of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of Defence, and other employees of Turkish Armed Forces. Dear friends, can this bill address all the problems of public workers' economic, social, essence, democratic working life at the community contract table? Of course not. The bill restricts the issue of the collective agreement only to financial and social rights, and even restricts financial rights, contrary to the Constitution. The unions were automatically shut down because the first draft of the bill did not include the service arm contract. The only level of collective agreement with only three confederates, with the most members, has taken every precaution not to go outside the government's limits. And when we look at the formation of the People's Trade Unions delegation, which represents public workers in the collective contract, we understand where these measures are going. The delegation will be made up of seven members. According to the bill, the confederation, which has the most members, was given three representatives in the delegation, two representatives in the number of members, and one in the third confederation, did it say that the delegation was given 3 representatives, 2 representatives in the number of members, and 1 in the third confederacy? For the chairman of this delegation, the confederacy, which is the largest member, is also being given another representative. The subcommittee has made some changes, but how? Again, at the request of the confederate confederacy. The commission reports are clear, so anyone who wants to know can read them. The proposals for Republican People's Party MPs and opposition MPs and two confederacys to ensure justice in the representation and a collective agreement on the service arm have been rejected. The bill was changed to protect its position in accordance with the proposal of the confederate confederacy. Dear friends, I've just told you the total number of public workers who will benefit from the collective contract. Now, the only public worker's spokesman is Officer-Sen. Let's be more specific. The AKP says: "I give nine representatives, including the presidency, to my confederate confederacy, which has 500,000 members. Two representatives will be sufficient for Turkey's 364,000 members, Public-Sen, four representatives, 232,000 members. Is there such an account, my friends? Divide the 515 thousand into nine hundred: and what's the result? I found 57, and divide the 394 thousand into four hundred thousand; and if I am not mistaken, I find 98,000 over two thousand to one hundred and sixteen thousand. KESK and Turkey have a total of 626 thousand members, but a total of 6 representatives are on the delegation. Nine representatives, including the president, are on board. Would you look at the painting: Every 57,000 members of the Confederacy of Officer-Sen, who were rejected from joining here in 2002 and increased the number of members 13 times with the support of the ten-year AKP's power, and whose close relationship with power was not overlooked by international unions and confederations, have one representative. On the other hand, 1 representativeship for every 98,000 members of the Turkish People's-Sen Confederacy, 1 representative for 1 1 16,000 members of KESK, whose members are imprisoned today in total 40 executives and members, who have been imprisoned behind bars, on the grounds of the investigation of every step taken by executive and members of the government and their political views. Dear friends, this board of judges between the parties, please pay attention, this board will be acting as referee. Imagine a sporting event, you and your opponent are also referees in this competition. What kind of a referee is that? Who can believe this referee is fair or fair? The bill was so carefully thought into, so deeply studied that no doors were left open to trade unions, confederations, who were in charge of protecting and developing the rights and interests of members. Suppose you represent one of the confederations outside of the confederations known to be close to the government, you don't join this Board of Judges. It's not a big deal, it's enough that 8 of the 11 members attend the meeting to make a decision. In order for the board to make a decision, it will be sufficient for those attending the meeting to be in the confederacy of this council, the simple, the confederacy. Dear friends, it is impossible for public workers, unions, to meet their demands and demands. Here we are faced with international contracts, European human rights courts, the 87th and 98th contracts of international contracts, the 151st convention, the European Social Condition. See, in 2001, the Common Talks Act was discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, while Bingol MP Mahfuz Guler on behalf of the Favourite Party said that the arrangement intended to be brought with the bill is a hoax. With this bill, our officers and our employees have no gains. On the contrary, this bill, which encourages yellow unionism, which does not allow the officer to negotiate, which does not give him the right to collective talks and strike, is a complete deception. Mahfuz Güler continues:, with this bill, the union service in Turkey has been reduced to a tied-up association. The bill violates the ILO agreements, because ILO has granted public employees the right to a meeting under contract number 87 and under contract number 98. Our country has also approved these contracts, but the bill does not include collective agreements or rights to strike. This draft bill does not include collective contracts and strikes, my friends. These legal regulations violate international ILO contracts, European Court of Human Rights decisions, and international ILO contracts 87, 98 and 151. Now, once again here, I warn the government. Mr. Secretary, representing the government, has arrived. They came, but we, the Republican People's Party Group, are here again in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights; we will make every effort and effort we can to ensure that a strike, collective union law will be passed here in accordance with ILO's 87, 98 and 151 contracts. But what will be done here again: Mr. Vice President will ask again: Do you agree with the proposal? He will ask the commission. The commission will say: "We are not participating in the no motion. Are you agreeing with the government's motion?" The government will also say: "We are not participating in the proposal. " The motions of the main opposition party here will again be rejected. It is not meant to be called the "democracy" (a.k.a. Democracy is not just the name of the majority regime. Or we got 49 percent of the vote. The laws we want pass here, and the laws and materials we don't want are rejected here. And once again, here he is protesting these pressures and violent practices that you've done in Congress last week, which concern at least 2.5 million public workers, these public workers, the strike and collective contract union rights here, are being discussed in a clear and clear way, and I salute all of you with respect and love that the pensions of our pensioners, who have been waiting for a raise since January 1st, will be raised here as soon as possible, so that the parties of the opposition, the motions that we have brought here, and the government, as well as well as well, will support, should be legalized here, and I salute you with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0029par0368	Thank you, Mr. Pine. On behalf of the groups, the fourth speaker is Genghis Yavilioğlu, Erzurum MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Yavilioğlu.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0030par0372	Mr. President, we are gathered today to discuss a bill that our civil society agencies have been waiting for for for years, especially our officers and other public officials. We're in your presence because of the Bill of Law 200 rows, which gives our unions, which we believe will take our democratic society and state structure to a higher legal, social, and institutional level than collective meetings. On this occasion, on behalf of my group, I salute your grand delegation with love and respect. Dear friends, before me, our opposition MPs took the empty side of the glass into consideration and made their speeches. Without a doubt, democratic development, the creation of union rights, winning is a process. Sudden rights are not gains. In view of the process of democratisation in the West, the process of unionisation in the West, we see that such a process took place. Dear friends, democratic societies are pluralistic and organized societies. To facilitate the organisation of unions and to strengthen trade unions that institutionalize different demands is to strengthen the democratic system within the system. Without a doubt, in the development of democracy and its understanding of governance, the contribution of union movements is important, huge. Today, union movements and formations are actors in the abandonment of pluralistic democracies. Because pluralism in democracies doesn't just mean the existence of political parties. The pluralism is the existence of all NGOs, especially workers and civil servants unions. Dear friends, democracy is often defined as the management of the people. In reality, democracy is the rule of the free people. Freedom is the basic value. Therefore, it is essential for the public to organize freely and express their demands freely. Unions are the property and the product of this democratic climate. Let me just say right now, democracy is not the result, it's the process. The processes of building a democratic society and a state are also closely related to the history of institutions that value it. In this sense, it is possible to see our country's process of becoming a democratic society and state in part in the historical development lines of trade unions. As it is known, the union of workers and officers in our country has not been tolerated for a long time for various reasons. The legal basis for the union rights of officers is the 1961 Constitution. In the first form of the 61 Constitution, the workers have been given the right to form a union, not only to workers, but also to public officials. The concept of employees includes workers and officers as a roof concept. On the basis of the Constitution's relevant ruling, the Law on State Personnel No. 624 was adopted in 1965. However, this Law has not been long in its lifetime, due to the events in the country, which have taken place in 1971, and has been further narrowed down by the amendment to the Constitution, and has been restricted to workers' terms, and Law 624 has also been abolished. By the Constitution of 1982, the 51st Article of the Constitution has only recognised union rights to workers and employers, and the right to civil servants and other public work has not been granted. The unionisation of public officials gained considerable momentum in 1992, with the approval of the 151 convention of the ILO (ILO) in terms of legal grounds. This development was changed in 1995, so public officials were given the right to form a union and a collective contract on behalf of members of the administration. Of course, this change is a positive step in the historical process, but even if the negotiations between unions and representatives of the administration are met, the final decision is left in the government, in fact, significant shortcomings in the process in terms of democratic systems and social rights. Dear friends, the constitutional union rights provided and mentioned in 1995 took place during the DYP-SHP-CHP coalition. The use of this right was adopted in 2001 by the DSP-MHP-ANAP coalition, which is currently in effect by the Law of Public Servants Unions No. 4688. These regulations are undoubtedly inadequate in terms of modern democratic systems and understanding, but are a milestone in the process of unionisation. I'd like to thank the NGOs and all the parties that have passed the effort. My esteemed lawmakers are one of the key steps taken in the past few years for the implementation of the Law on Public Servants' Unions No. 4688, the change of our administrative understanding, and our personnel system. I have to say that the total gains and regulations achieved during nine meetings, including eight of the EC PARTI governments, during the implementation of the law, are completely inconsequential and inclusive. Dear friends, these arrangements have been directed to our public personnel system. For example, to pay the rights holders along with the sum of the money in the Savings Development Fund, to be paid to the owners again in their housing aid accounts, to be given an additional degree to the state officials who started in 1991, to be pardoned for disciplinary fines, to increase family and child benefit payments, to the union public employees to pay collective contract bonus, to the employees after the privatisation process, to be given the right to work as temporary staff in the status of 4/C, to be granted a temporary staff of public officials, to be granted a position of 216 people, to be given a position of 216, 424 staff, to be employed as a member of the law, to be held as a member of the staff, to be held by a few hundred people who have been disabled after special procedures. In addition to the above rights earned by public talks, at the time of these talks, our governments have also gained advantage over the officers' salaries. In this sense, the average civil servant's salary, which was $392 in December 2002, was raised to $1,663 in January 2012, to $1,894 in the same period. During that time, the increase in public employees' monthlys has always improved in a positive way, and our officers haven't been crushed by inflation, like our pensioners and other employees. Dear MPs, one of the most important milestones in our political and constitutional history is the September 12, 2010 referendum. The Constitutional amendment of September 12, 2010, which further modernises the formation of democratic society by strengthening the union's rights, is really historic, important. For the first time in the history of the republic, public officials have been given collective agreements. Of course, in the future, it will be the issue of strengthening the civil rights of officers with other union rights. Our opposition parties have explained this, but it must be made clear that the recognition of the right to a collective contract and the inclusion of independent boards will be described as an advanced and democratic step in the past, which is far too advanced and too democratic to compare with the system. Of course, there will be those who do not appreciate these steps, these innovations. I respect these ideas, but when these provisions are compared to the past, it will not be denied that there are very advanced steps in the development of democracy and in the name of union rights. In the past, if we're discussing the right to collective agreements of public officials who have been robbed of their rights to form a union in the past, if we're discussing the legal arrangement, it's very valuable to the democratic process. Dear friends, with the proposed constitutional amendment, they will benefit from the scope of the right to collective contract, exceptions, collective agreements, the way the collective contract is made, the way and the implementation of the collective agreements are reflected to pensioners, the representation of the Public Officers' Board of References, the working procedure and the basis of other matters is under control. In this context, the need to regulate the issues within the framework of a law has occurred. The bill, which will implement this amendment today, will be assessed by the General Assembly and, hopefully, will be passed as soon as possible. That way, the collective contract system will be able to apply. Before I pass on what the bill has brought, I would like to say that behind closed doors, we have done it. It certainly has not been prepared with understanding; it has been discussed with all our unions and relevant organizations, and their proposals have been taken. Because we know that when the law is being passed in democracies, one of the principles that must be considered is the principle of asking those who are affected by those decisions. In this sense, five large meetings, which were held by the Minister himself, which lasted hours. It was transparent at every stage of the bill. The main goal of all talks was to ensure maximum agreement, which I believe has been achieved significantly. And that's why this bill came to parliament about a year and a half after the referendum, because it was treated so delicately, everyone's opinion was cared for, and the common mind was sought out. The same dialogue process was carried out in parliament, and at commission meetings, the opinions of our unions were taken and a significant portion of their demands were met. For example: the meeting of collective contracts as a general and service body, the establishment of the legal basis of social balance compensation, the weekly leave of trade unions to county and county representatives, increased permission for business union representatives, reconsidering the structure of the Union of Public Servants' Unions Committee, the adoption of services unions with the highest members, or the lawsuits for members of unions. Such views have been taken into consideration at meetings, and you will see that changes have been made to be seen as appropriate. In the process of creating this bill, I once again thank all parties, especially our unions, and everyone who contributes. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to inform our General Assembly of what the bill we're about to discuss brings in headlines. First of all, under the bill, the name of the Union of Public Officials Law was changed to the Unions of Public Servants and the Common Contract Law, in accordance with the collective bargaining system. The bill extends the scope of the right to organise. In this sense, two years of service has been lifted to be union founder with the condition of running and completing the probationary period to become a union member. The workplaces where 100 and more public servants work have been envisioned to be members of the trade union of chiefs and assistants and private security personnel. Unions' organisation and operating procedures have been facilitated. In this regard, documents requested by trade unions and confederations have been reduced during the organisation. According to the law under the law, the branch general boards, which exceed the number of members, are now held with delegates, and all branch general boards can now be made with delegates. The mandatory regulation amendments, which are asked to be corrected by the authorities, can also be carried out without meeting the general board. The union and confederations can also create organs other than mandatory organs. The maximum three-year deadline for holding general board meetings has been extended to four years. The union and confederations will be able to establish an international organization. Local and municipal diplomatic missions, which exist in the districts and districts that cannot be established, are organised in the law. County representatives, more than 100 members, will be given four hours a week, over 50 members. In accordance with the idea of participating management, arrangements have been made. In this scope, the Supreme Executive Board has been removed, and as an application to participate in a government, the Public Staff Advisory Board has been formed, which provides consultation on general quality issues involving public personnel. Three confederates with the most members will be represented in this council, especially in each service branch. The business union diplomatic mission and trade unions' business representative system have been redesigned, the number of representatives has been reduced and the representation has been strengthened. In regard to the scope and level of the collective contract, the scope of the collective contract, the number and indicators to be applied to public officials, monthly and fees, any increase and compensations, additional contract bonuses, overtime, bonuses, birth, death and family benefits, funeral costs, food and clothing benefits and other financial and social benefits. In public contract talks, both financial and social rights for the general public servants and financial and social rights for the service arm can be discussed. Both at the general level and at the service branch level, a valid collective agreement can be signed independently, and if it is incompatible, the Council of Public Officials can be applied to the Reference Board. Who will benefit from the collective agreement? All public officials can benefit from the collective contract provisions, union or not. Only union officials can benefit from the collective contract bonus. The formation of a union delegation in collective contract talks is even more democratic than the past. The Unions of Public Servants Committee will consist of 15 members from one of the three confederations with the highest members, one of the top members of each service branch, and one of the top members of each union. Thus, a high proportional representation is foreseen at both the general level and the service branch level. Dear friends, one of the important innovations with the bill has been social balance. If you do not cross the ceiling in the collective agreements, you will be able to get a contract with the union, which has registered the most members in the local administrations, which is qualified to determine social balance compensation for local government employees. This means that a contract can be signed on a corporate level by local authorities, including the state's private administrations. We will also benefit pensioners from the collective contract system, and the increase in public officials' monthly and base monthly levels will also be reflected in public officials' pensions. The structure of the Public Officers Referee Board is also more democratically composed of 11 members, including one member of both the Public Employers' Committee and the Committee of Public Officers' Unions. Dear friends, the things I've told you are the things that include the full side of the glass. There is no doubt that further levels of arrangements can be made to increase more democratic and working standards. Is that possible? Yes, it's possible. And from the criticism of our friends, it's important to understand that the work, the work that's done, shouldn't be too small. The bill we've made, the talks we've made, compared with the past, takes the situation even further in terms of creating democratic, human working conditions. In short, the collective contract, as part of the general and service arm, will be given to the President of the Union's Unions Committee, and to the relevant union representatives for the department of service. Those who are authorized to sign the relevant chapters of the contract may be able to appeal to the Public Officers Referee Board for parts where they are authorized to sign. I wish you all the best and best of luck to this bill that allows us to meet our democratic society structure, unionisation and working conditions.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0031par0412	Thank you, Mr. Yavilioğlu. Now, Mr. Elvan, chairman of the Plan and Budget Commission, our Karaman MP. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0032par0416	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For about three or four months, there's been a lot of debate on both our subcommittee and our Plan and Budget Commission. In addition, confederation representatives, ministerial representatives, have given their opinion to our members of the lower commission, both to our members of the Commission and to us, in full detail. I would like to thank our Subcommittee and all his members, especially our Minister, who has been involved in this process, again, all members of the Plan and Budget Commission. When we looked at the focus of the debates, I saw that the current law was often compared to the reference of labor unions in these last few months. However, I need to make it very clear that when we look at the International Labour Organization contracts 87, 98 and 151, contracts 87 and 98 speak of issues for organisation and collective bargaining. However, when we look at Contract 98, Article 98 states: "This contract is not related to the state of the civil servants, and it does not in any way bring about their rights or status. " So what we're seeing from here is that the ILO contracts 87 and 98 were made mainly for the workers. Here, of course, the ILO Convention No. 151 is in effect due to some hesitations. As we look at Contract 151, we see that there is an arrangement for all civil servants, because the Convention 151 states: "The agreement agreements will be applied to all public employees as a principle. There is a statement. Here in Contract 151, we also note one thing: If you use public power, public authority, you make decisions on behalf of the public, or you are a senior public executive, then you must consider Contract 151. So, what does contract 151 say? Contract 151 states that the group, which enters this country -- which I have just expressed -- can be carried out on behalf of the public, on behalf of the public, on behalf of public authority, and on the basis of high-level executives, can be carried out on a national level. It can also be interpreted as being that the validity of the issues expressed in agreements ILO number 87 and 98 cannot be considered in a sense. Of course, it's a discussion of comments, we may have friends with different ideas, but the bottom line is, there's a separate arrangement for public officials. If you're using public authority, public power, then you have the right to regulate it at a national level. Again, the second issue of discussion, dear friends, is that when we look at public officials around the world, we see that there are two types of working people. First, public employees who are subject to status law. The second one is public officials who work with the contract. So, what do we mean by status law? What we call status law, dear friends, is a structure that works there with a law that reveals the rights, duties, obligations of government officials working in that country. So any employee, before any citizen becomes a public official, or, in fact, before he becomes a public official, or if he is going to be a public official, is a person who knows exactly what steps he's going to go through, what kind of promotions he's going to get, how much his salary rate will increase, what rights he has, but especially when we look at the people who work in the current sector -- let's see if the workers don't sign a collective contract tomorrow -- he won't get a salary increase, no guarantee for the future, no guarantee of jobs, but when we look at what kind of government service does not exist in the world at all, especially when we look at our very few countries, we're looking at the legal structure of our current state. So our civil servants are now heavily protected by our laws, by our Constitution. According to the country's examples, dear friends: Today in Europe, more or less 12, 13 countries have no right to collective contracts, no right to collective contracts for civil servants. For example, civil servants in countries such as Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Latvia, Poland, Portugal and Romania do not have collective contracts. In the United States, no federal official has the right to a collective contract. There are countries that are conditionally entitled to a collective contract. Especially by our confederation officials and representatives of the service branch, the countries of Northern Europe are often brought up, and the level of unionisation in these countries is said to be really high. Yes, indeed, the level of unionization in these countries is quite high, the rights in the collective contract are high, but there is one detail, and I'd like to share that detail with you. I would like to set an example of several countries: Finland. In Finland, yes, the civil servant has the right to a collective contract, but Parliament must approve it. If Parliament states that the government has not put the increase in this collective agreement in the budget into its budget. Thus, this collective agreement is not valid. Norway, time, the same way. In Norway, yes, the collective contract is valid, the civil servant may have the right to a collective contract, but there is Parliamentary approval. If you have funds in your budget, that's the only time he can approve them. Again, there are countries that have the right to a collective contract, and I'd like to mention them. France, for example, is one of the many spoken countries again. There's only one collective contract here, which we have here in the framework of the bill, but if it goes into effect, it's subject to the Minister of Finance's approval. Objection: Unions and confederations only have the right to appeal under two conditions. One of them is that if officers fall into a more disadvantaged position than the previous contract, then confederations and service arms have the right to object, or, under the second condition, if the rights given in the law are restricted by contract, again, confederation or service arms have the right to object. You can either narrow down what's predicted in the law, or if the contract contains a restrictive statement of your rights, they can only have rights to appeal. Again, in France, another detail, another detail, you can only negotiate the price. You can't bring anything up except the price. There's no compromise mechanism. If it's uncompromising, the government can make a unilateral decision. When we look at Italy -- again one of our great countries -- the rules of collective agreements do not apply if the working conditions and the legal arrangement are set. The validity of the contract is only possible with the approval of the Court. The Court sees whether the contract cost is in the budget, and the Court approves if there is sufficient funding in the budget, but it does not approve if the budget is not funded. The Finance Ministry and the Prime Minister's Office can again limit the budget for the collective agreement in Italy, both the Prime Minister and the Finance Ministry. When we look at Greece -- another model country -- Greece has the right to a collective contract, but you can only make a collective contract in three areas, you can argue: 1) In matters related to education, 2) Occupational health 3) Social Security. Other than that, there is no negotiation. The issues related to the fee are completely regulated by the law. Now, after giving these examples, I'd like to make an assessment of the overalls, dear friends: No matter what developed country you go to in the world, there's no way you'll find the scope as wide as the scope of our civil servant. The closest country to us is France -- we have significant similarities with France -- but there is no government official structure that really covers as much as we do. Look, we think that all of this is part of a government official, no matter what the scope of it from the servant to the branch office in Turkey. If you were to go to any country in Europe -- including the northern European countries -- they wouldn't believe it if you told them that a servant was a civil servant, but a servant in Turkey is also a civil servant. Am I criticizing this? No, I'm not, but I have to express it so that you know the structure. Dear friends, there is another issue, which is being discussed in our Commission, which is being discussed intensively, and is being brought up here as follows: the current regulations of the property and social rights are taken into account. In the form of -- I think it was the 28th Amendment -- we have a statement in our bill. It is thought that this statement significantly narrows down the bargaining area of our government officials, our public officials. There is a comment. This is debatable, but the bottom line, dear friends, is that both the method of computation and the method of deduction can't actually be changed in this framework, but other than that, all kinds of financial and social rights can be increased. For example, the teacher's supplementary tuition. Well, that's very debatable, and there could be an increase in that. There is no obstacle to this, or a new payment element may be brought up, but this new payment must be made within the framework of the current Finance Ministry's computing method. Here's the bottom line: even to the method of computing, and even to say, let's say that a head of an apartment with an additional 3600 indicators can even be put on the negotiating table. So I don't personally think there's a limitation involved. Finally, I'm going to say a few things to the local authorities and finish my speech. Local governments, as you know, both our municipalities and our municipal private administrations have been paying under the name of the social balance agreement, although there is no legal infrastructure. I've been wondering, frankly, what kind of payments are being made from our relevant institution, and what kind of payments are being made under the name social balance agreement? Believe me, there are about four hundred pens in which they have different forms of payment. There's even this: I'll give the pensioner a $25,000 pension when he retires. Here are the municipalities that pay extra for holidays, the county private administrations, I don't know, twice a year, we have municipalities that pay extra salary, pay fees. So there's a serious distortion and disarray going on here. Of course, I'd like to thank our friends at the commission. Especially our friends on the subcommittee have attempted to put this in order, which I think is a very meaningful approach, to be honest. There has been a sum of compensation combined under the name "Social Balance Responsibility" and the amount of compensation, or rather, the ceiling of compensation will be determined at the negotiating table, but there has been a statement made by Mr. Commander, that I would like to make a correction by Mr. Commander -- but not here -- but there has been an expression that the existing contracts of municipalities and municipal private administrations -- have been completely eliminated. There is a statement here in the bill that the existing contracts will continue if they want to by the end of 2015. So the way this system, or rather the way it fits into this arrangement, in a sense, may be the issue from the end of 2015. The strike rights have been discussed, and I don't want to get too involved in these issues, but I believe that in Turkey, I sincerely want to share this opinion with you: I think the structure of the state official system in Turkey must be reviewed. When you look at the payments, I see that they have a lot of payment patterns, that we have friends with a lot of different status. And I think it would be very helpful to review these issues, of course -- Mr. Minister -- here -- but I can't help but say that if he's working on a contract, if he's working on a contract, if he's working on a deed, I think it's also very meaningful and true that there's a lot of rights to be given to people who are working without the right to strike the status law. And I'm not going to be able to express it, but what I really need to say is, yes, we're bringing in important rights, a collective contract, and the rights given to state officials and to me now are far more advanced than most European countries, much more advanced than their developed country. Of course, our friends from different parties will have opinions, opinions, and I respect all of them. The bottom line is, we all want this country to become a more democratic, more advanced country. And in the future, I believe that we will all work together to move this country forward, with respect to all of you, sir, thank you, be there.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0033par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, on behalf of the individuals, Menderes Mehmet Tevfik Türel, Antalya MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Turtel, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0034par0445	Mr. President, I have made a promise to give you my opinion on the 200-tier bill of law. We are here today to discuss a very important law together. Another important step has been taken to improve the working conditions of our public officials and to ensure better protection of their rights. Surely no law is the ideal or the best law, but let's not forget that the best is the archenemy of the best. So, today, I'm here to stress that we're making a really good law, even if it's not perfect, and we're going to make a very important progress. In the preparation of the law, everyone, especially our Minister, has acted in a participating manner. With intense work as commissions and subcommittees, our unions' views have been taken into account and have been urged to bring in the best possible changes in the terms of Turkey. The Council of Ministers drafted proposals from our opposition and unions, as much as possible, have been taken into consideration, as much as possible, after changes were made in the lower commission, around 15 or so, in our commission, as much as possible. What makes me particularly happy is that our municipal workers have been prevented from being victims of social balance compensation. It is clear that, as a whole, this law and the public union movement will ease, public unions will strengthen, collective contract culture will improve. Despite all this effort, there have been controversial and disorientation issues such as strike rights, collective contract coverage, union representation, union representation, union union establishment and the establishment of security officials, the formation of the arbitration board. However, when Law 657 is present, it is also a matter of serious debate as to how fair and efficient a right to a performance system, when public officials have continued to implement such practices as guarantees of employment, guarantees of a staff degree, while the performance system has not been established. Therefore, improving the conditions of public officials is a matter that must be dealt with along with other laws, such as 657, and strengthening the union's rights will contribute to progress in this regard. I believe there are studies of our Ministry on that, too. Clearly, in a country, the strong union supports social peace, increases the efficiency of workers, and speeds up development. However, in our country, the issue of trade unions making progress towards having a more professional, independent and democratic work structure should also be dealt with sincerely. In recent days, I personally had trouble understanding what the union in Ankara was against. A few days ago, Mr. Ali Nesin's explanations in the newspapers led us to wonder if it was necessary to be so judgmental about this matter. So, of course, we want our country to move quickly towards democracy and to be seen in all areas, but we're wasting time because of rigid ideological attitudes, and unfortunately we can't move any faster. It's not realistic to expect all matters to be resolved suddenly in such matters, to be changed overnight, with a law; it's important that, whether it's step by step, it's progressing in the right direction. Our highly valued lawmakers, one thing must be well understood: EC PARTY governments have consistently strengthened the social state property of the Republic of Turkey. Given the increase in personnel costs, the budget is always higher than inflation. In particular, public servants' salaries at the lower level have been raised above inflation. In fact, parliamentary salaries, often discussed in public, have increased by 100 per cent, while the minimum civil servant's salary has been increased by 300 per cent. I'll tell you more: in Turkey, the share of staff costs in the budget is 23 per cent. This ratio is either the same or higher with many developed countries. For example, the staff costs are 15 percent in Japan and 16 per cent in Germany, but as I've just said, in Turkey, that number is 23 per cent. On the other hand, the fact that payments by previous governments, such as Housing Aid, have been made, forgotten payments have been made, the fact that bank promotions have been granted to employees is a very important indication of the importance our government has shown to the staff. The AK PARTY, therefore, is a true working friend, working friend, homeless and oppressed friend. Now, following this law, I hope the public officials will be able to receive the 2012 salary hikes without further delay. This dimension of our commission's quick and efficient work is also important. Dear lawmakers, of course, are now available in every municipality with the new legal arrangement, which we call social balance compensation during our commission studies, which municipalities are implementing, and some are reluctant to apply due to the legal gap. This is important in this regard: In some municipalities, our workers will no longer be deprived of that right, but will have the chance. Of course, the Commission, at the time, has been limited to 30 per cent of the municipal budget, which has led to some controversy, but as you know, municipal law 5393 is already limited to 30 per cent of municipal staff costs in Article 49, which is already long earlier. Therefore, the fact that this number is higher here, because of this law, because of its law, is not valid as long as we have more and more of it already, obviously, as long as we have that municipal law, because of a principle of parallelity over this 30 per cent. Therefore, I personally consider the matter of limiting social balance compensation to 30 per cent, as well as parallel to Article 49 of the City Code, and that should be the case. I thank the Ministry officials, especially our very intense minister, and all those who have worked on the draft of the law, all our unions, all our friends who have contributed from the opposition, all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0035par0461	Thank you, Mr. Türel. Now our Minister of Labour and Social Security, Mr. Faruk Çelik, our Ambassador to Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0036par0465	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Today, the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has begun to discuss an important law that some 1,900,000 of our public employees and some 1,900,000 pensioners have been looking forward to. One of the main topics of the September 12, 2010 referendum, as you all know, was to give public officials the right to a collective contract. I believe that this bill, organised in harmony with the Constitution, will soon be legalized with your support. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when we look back and look back, as in many areas, we see that the past has been dealt with in the field of public personnel, as in the case of public personnel management, many of the problems in the form of gangrene, have been handled in the period of our government, and the problems have been solved one by one. Of these, the Savings Development Fund was terminated during our government, and the funds in this Fund were paid to the rightful owners, along with their moisture. In the same way, the rights are also paid for by the rights of the housing accounts. After privatisation apps, employees who have been terminated have been employed as temporary employees in our public institutions. Interim workers and contract personnel have been recruited in the process. An interagency wage imbalance, which has been bleeding for years, has been compensated for the wages of public officials working in the same title, career staff and executive staff. Many legislations that regulate the rights of public personnel have been set in line with the expectations of our public employees. While these regulations are being put into effect, I would like to say once again that social dialogue channels are always open, and I would like to point out that all of this work, the process of transitioning from public talks to collective agreements, and some of the gains that I've just expressed are actually a win for our public service unionism. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have expressed here that in the past decade, public personnel have not been crushed by inflation. In terms of numbers, in 2002, the lowest government official's monthly salary, except for family allowance, was $366, while as of January 2012, the lowest government official's monthly salary was raised to $1,409 TL. In 2002, the average government official was $568 a month, except for family allowance, while as of January 2012, the average government official's salary increased to $1,804 a month, except for family allowance. The picture is clear when we look at the rate of increase in government officials' salaries during our administration. The lowest government official salary, including family aid, would see a real increase of 7.1 per cent in 2003 -- 5.4 per cent in 2005 -- but since not all the numbers were time-appropriate -- in 2011, there would be a 7.1 per cent actual increase. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this is also a period when the scissors between low-month government officials and high-month government officials are narrowed down. There are seven times the difference between the highest government official's salary and the lowest government employee's salary, and if I say that this is going down to 3.9 today, it's going to be a big deal. This shows that there have been higher increases in this period than there have been in public employees who are receiving a high-monthly salary. Mr. President, I'd like to present you with a headline on the draft bill and the arrangement it brings to the agenda of the General Assembly. First of all, I'd like to point out that the draft bill is actually carried out by the participation of social parties. Representatives of our three confederates, most members, have participated in all phases of preparation. Our friends have been served in this matter. Let me point out that in our work at the ministry level, the negotiations at the level of the Prime Minister, the negotiations at the Council of Ministers, the negotiations at the lower commission, the talks at the main commission, have made a very serious contribution to the law. I mean, I know. I want to share with my dear friends that there is no arrangement with his understanding. When the legislation is prepared at the Ministry, it is possible to see clearly how that arrangement has changed in the Council of Ministers, and how the arrangement from the Council of Ministers has been shaped in the lower commission. I'd like to stress in particular that there's no repressive or guiding or single-species approach here. My fellow lawmakers, in the course of the bill, legislation on how to organize and use collective bargaining rights in foreign countries has also been reviewed and found that it is not possible to talk about a single method in the world in terms of collective agreements, organisation, conflict and so on. Here, our friends have evaluated the agenda of the General Assembly, but I'd like to make a statement with the headlines. First of all, the Public Servants' Union Law has been renamed as the Public Servants' Unions and Community Contract Act in accordance with the collective bargaining system. Secondly, the bill extended the scope of its right to organise. The union's organisation, operating procedures have been facilitated. In addition, arrangements have been made in line with the idea of participating management. The scope and level of the collective agreement has been redefined, and arrangements have been made to determine who will benefit from the collective agreement. The deadline and validity of the collective agreement were new arrangements for the parties in the collective agreement talks. In addition, local authorities, municipal and private administrations provide an elder's contract arrangement. In the collective contract system, pensioners will, of course, continue to take advantage of this contract. The structure of the Public Officers Referee Board is being organised. We bring to you an important arrangement that includes many arrangements, which will bring back all of our contributions to the General Assembly when we discuss the matter. Our fellow reviewers here have made some assessments of the right to strike; I thank them, a respectable meeting. In this regard, as you know, with the participation of all parties, our new Constitutional studies continue. I hereby state that we as the Ministry of Labor are on the side of this matter, especially in the context of the working person's concept, that it would be beneficial for this issue to be organized collectively in the Constitution. Another thing: I'm making it very clear that we're working with three major confederations here, and we're not in any kind of study that will make the slightest difference between them. Confederacy presidents are witnesses to that, and confederacy directors are witnesses to that. We have stated that the Ministry of Labor is their Ministry for demand and needs in each area, that they are their partners in the Ministry, and that we will work together. But when you apply here, you can't necessarily create an atmosphere where you can please all three confederations. So no matter how hard you try, there's no way to get a 100% agreement on this. Then what was the point? We've been trying to achieve a maximum consensus. How will the consolidation of the collective agreement, which is most of all a conflict issue, be linked? I mean, I don't believe that anyone would object to that opinion, but this means that no collective contract should be made. It means. I mean, how are you gonna get all three confederations to sit down and sign? One of them will say what the other said. So it's a fact.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0037par0484	If you want, you can't force it.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0036par0485	So we're definitely doing the collective contract here, just like in the labor confederation. Who are we doing this with? We do it with the confederation, which has the most members. And so we're dealing with the situation where we're doing this bonding with the officers, and we're finally doing it with the confederation that has the most members. Now, that doesn't mean that yesterday another confederation had the most members, today another confederation has the most members; no one can predict what will happen tomorrow. So there's no way you can make legal arrangements here with indexes to individuals, unions, confederations, indexes to them. The law is the law of our nation, the law is the law of the workers, so in this objective, you have to make this arrangement, which we believe we are sensitive to. The commission said he'd been held up too long. As the Ministry, yes, we've sent it for over four months, maybe five months -- as a minister -- but let's face it, dear friends: the right to a collective contract on public officials' unions and to comply with the Constitutional Union is about the entire cabinet, so we're talking about a number that corresponds to 28 per cent of the budget, and we're talking about an arrangement. There's a difference of opinion, there's a different approach, there's a need for a time frame in that direction. And, of course, as for Parliament, of the people's will, the commission approved its transfer to the subcommittee here. Over there, our fellow lawmakers, with their opposition, have been studied, evaluated for a long time, and the point that has come as a result has been referred to the General Assembly in the Commission, which I would like to point out is that there have been some serious changes in the subcommittee. Again, here are statements from our Deputy Prime Minister. Let me put it this way: I don't really know what environment our Deputy Prime Minister is using these statements in, but here -- in question -- we're the Minister in charge. I'd also like to point out that there's absolutely no distinction between confederations. So as a minister of a political conversation in a place that's parallel to such an important arrangement, it's not right to be considered as a part of the law, it's not right that our Deputy Prime Minister tells me anything about it, it doesn't have the slightest bit of advice, it doesn't have the slightest expression, it doesn't have the whole of the law, it doesn't feel like it's part of the law.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0038par0489	But he didn't correct it, Minister. He was in public, he didn't fix it.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0036par0490	I hope the bill I'm trying to sum up is good for our country, for our nation, for all our public employees. I thank you all for your contributions, and I salute the high council with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0039par0492	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of all members of the bill, Mr. Mehmet Erdogan is an MP of the Muğla. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0040par0496	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the Bill of the Law to Change the Law of Public Officers Unions, number 200. I salute your high council. Honourable MPs, the bill we're discussing bears no trace of democratic trade unionism. Everything is designed according to the yellow union you formed during your reign. The whole world knows how the yellow union is formed, but once again, no public official's demands for non-Yandash unions have been met by your power. Even the public official who made the smallest request was asked which union he was in first, and it is politely said that his request cannot be met if he is not a member of the supporting union. This should be one of AKP's further democratic practices. The bill, which we are negotiating today, which is linked to the Constitutional Amendment on September 12, 2010, has not been brought to the agenda of Parliament for a year and a half. As a result, for the first time in years, public officials and pensioners did not receive the salary hike they should receive in the first half of the year. The small increase in office salaries may not mean anything to you, but for all public officials, those small sums that you look down on are of great importance; small-time people who are living on small incomes need these small coins. Well, nice, even though public servants can't get their pay raises, they've been buying your beautiful gifts since Christmas. The fuel hikes we've forgotten since New Year's have already paid a lot more in advance than the amount of natural gas you've added to the second gift as an electric increase in order to make sure there's no shortage. Now, when this law is passed, the government will call on Officer-Sen, saying: "Come, my friends, let us give you 3 or 5 cents according to the inflation we have predicted. I'd like to ask the government from here: what is the share of energy in the production costs of the villager, in the production costs of the industry? What's the power in the officer's consumption pattern? Won't that affect inflation at all? After all these power surges, how will he hold the prediction of inflation when there are no predictions of the power that comes from zero problems in foreign policy and comes to a festive position at home in education? Dear lawmakers, in the past the most important debate of Turkish politics was the matter of the middle pole. Thanks to you, the rich are left with the other strange gurus who have joined the division. In the past, officers were the most important element of the middle pole; there was no more middle post, and the officers became the strange guru. Now the living conditions of these strange gurus are far from even meeting their minimum needs. And in the state of advanced democracy that you've created, unfortunately, there's no way you can look for their rights. When we look at the bill, the government will meet with the yellow union, and the other unions will be able to participate as an extra. At the signing point, the contract will again be signed between the government and the joint union, but the other unions will not be entitled to any objections. It is important to include at least some democratic elements in this bill. Look, the main opposition party has the right to go to the Constitutional Court in connection with the laws adopted by your majority. But the bill we're negotiating should at least give the second and third union the right to appeal to the Public Officers Referee Board. Of course, another weirdo is the form of the Public Officers Referee Board. A cab like this doesn't make a wolf, even if it's the lamb. So let's see, from what point of view, this bill is not a bill that will solve and protect the financial and social rights of public officials. In any case, financial and social rights are not the only problem with public officials. For one thing, the government does not even have the will to create any work and solutions for modern slaves, who are being employed through the 4/C (C) people and subcontractors that were discovered during this period of power. He employs staff through the power subcontractor, which also prevents our young people from taking advantage of the security of civil service, and also allows subcontractors to transfer funds to their subcontractors. Dear lawmakers, the meeting of public services with the subcontractor system is against the Law of State Officers No. 657. Under the Law of State Officers No. 657, the affairs of the state are carried out by officers. Second, the implementation of public services with the subcontractor system is outside the public staff selection system. People employed like this have no job guarantees, no union rights. To sum it up, it's a modern system of slavery, with a pricing system, with an appointment form, with a way to put an end to it. On this occasion, I would like to express with open heart that the Nationalist Movement Party is against any form of slavery. Therefore, due to a fair method in his time as a ruling partner, he carefully applied the method of appointing all public personnel through the central exam system. When the National Movement Party takes power, its first move is to end the AKP invention of modern slavery system. Another public extension of modern slavery is the 4/C. The drama of the 4/C is to be resolved immediately. These citizens, who have performed the services that public officials should do, do not have the same rights, despite the fact that they are doing the same work, spending the same overtime. This labour force also causes injustice to our citizens of 4/C) to suffer economic injustice. It is not for us to be concerned that the government, which avoids even the rights of union people, is, unfortunately, part of what we call a modern system of slavery, is to be watched by the rights, the law and the problems of our citizens. From here to power, our recommendation is that this country's most important resource is to use its human resources correctly. It is not possible for these modern slaves, who cannot benefit from the security of officers, who are working on low incomes, who are not happy with their own results, to provide a healthy service to our citizens in need of service. Respected lawmakers, one of the most important problems that concerns our young people is the transparency of public recruitment exams. Corruptions, injustices and doubts in public recruitment exams undermine our young people's confidence in the state. One of the most recent examples of this is the announcement of the results of an interview by the Interior Ministry in 20 days after the examination. So the result of an interview test was not understood by anyone who took this test for 20 days, nor was it understood by us. Dear friends, as I end my words, I would like to remind the government and the ruling lawmakers of a saying by Hazreti Omar. Hazreti Omar says, "Give the worker his rights before the sweat is dry. Please return the labors of the servants, as well as the servants. You won't get anywhere by taking away the rights of officers and public employees. I salute you all again with the blessing and the good luck of this law to all public officials.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0041par0515	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Congressmans, we will now proceed with a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure under Article 81 and 91. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. In first place, Mr. Impulsion, our Kütahya MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0042par0520	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how many of the government officials in our country are still members of what unions? How do you assess that Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc had announced the union before this bill even came to Parliament? Did you object to this view as a member of the Council of Ministers? Two: Is there such an example of law in another country in the world? If so, what country or countries have such a law? I'd appreciate it if you'd explain. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0043par0525	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Aslanoglu, İstanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0044par0527	Mr. Secretary, those of you who are old - I'm crying to you - these people are hungry, they can't get a job. It is not the destiny of God, but give an advance for a temporary period of three years, or give a minimum wage, and keep it in the future. These people are hungry, but you're always insensitive. These people can't get jobs, they can't get food, they can't send their kids to school, but you're so insensitive, Social Security is so insensitive. You really have no idea how to find a solution to desperate people. We say it over and over, you're always insensitive. Number two: people who work in sugar factories, working for three months, are they going to retire at the age of a hundred? Do you think there's a solution to all this? Three: 4/C) people are unemployed once a year. They do the same thing. Are you going to find a solution to all this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0045par0531	Mr. Tanal, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0046par0532	Thank you, Mayor. The previous legislation had a union membership grant. This was cancelled by the Constitutional Court. Is this time a collective contract bonus instead of a union grant to surprise the Constitution? Isn't that cheating, going around the back of the Constitution? Mr. Lütfi gave an example from France, from some countries, and he said: "There are no unions here. Look at us, we're forming a union. What's the union for? I mean, what are the reasons that force the union to force the employee? The union was needed because people were employed in Turkey for a price under poverty. Let's bring in the law on the workers of France, let's call it a collective yes. Let's say, bring in the law in Germany, collectively. Let's say yes. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0047par0536	Mr. Öğüt, our Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0048par0537	Thank you, Mr. President. While I'm here, I'd like to ask you something: Islander County is now a landfill of 3,400 square meters on the 59 islands in the Büyükada Mining District. Despite all these demands, the national real estate does not hand over the land for public use. The same national estate immediately handed over thousands of square metres of land to the Manolia Education Institutions in Ataşehir. The demand of the people of the islands is that the land be immediately opened to public use and sports, and that the name of Lefter Küçükandoniadis, a large service to Turkish football, be given to the facility. After the death of those we don't appreciate while we live, let's at least appreciate their memory and respect their memory. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0049par0540	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Günal, our Antalya MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0050par0542	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Mr. Aslanoglu just told me that we have a law proposal for those who can't retire because of this age, would you consider supporting that? Second: You described Mr. Bulent Arinc's word as a political talk, you lightened it a little, as if you were standing up for it. I told you I couldn't make a statement about it. It's not an innocent thing, I think he needs to lighten it up for himself. ▪ Is it true that you take this lightly as a minister in charge of trade unions? I'm asking if you're defending him. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0051par0546	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Special, Congressman of Manisa...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0052par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you think it's healthy that such a law text that directly concerns working life should be sent by our Parliamentary Speaker to the Plan and Budget Commission, and therefore the main experts of the matter are not sent to the Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs Commission, where it is considered as a subsidiary commission, and that it is not discussed on matter in our Commission with the ruling party's votes? Will you repeat your statement in the General Assembly? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0053par0551	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan, the Mughal MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0054par0553	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to come up with a solution for seasonal workers who work five months and twenty-nine days, who lack all social and union rights? Do you think you can come up with a solution for 4/C? Again, the People's Officers Referee Board, which was created in the bill we discussed, appears to be in a board of directors' direction entirely. Do you honestly believe that this board can solve the problems of public officials? I'm looking forward to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0055par0556	Thank you. Adıyaman MP Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0056par0558	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, of course, a collective agreement without a strike, in fact, is, in a sense, to deceive both the people and us; without a strike, there is no collective contract. Besides, most of the public employees are subcontractors now. How many subcontractors work in the public? They don't have union rights anyway. In the near future, most of the public officials will be subcontracted. For example, most of the health department employees will be under contract when this public hospital union law passes, and when it comes into effect, they will also lose their union rights. So stop fooling the citizen around here. At the end of your term, there will probably be no public employees left to strike or, rather, get union rights. Again, in your district of Siverek, you know, most of the people who were 70 years old were arrested...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0057par0562	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Pitcher, Mersin...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0058par0564	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the rights of public employees here. On the other hand, human rights violations continue in Osmaniye. People are out there on a hunger strike, and every day they're nearing death. I haven't been able to reach the Attorney General in four days, and he won't return my calls. There's nothing more important than human life. I made a promise that maybe someone with a conscience would hear my voice. As for the matter: Mr. Secretary, our people have given you 49 per cent of the vote to run, not enough of the living. You stopped even your own MPs from acting on their own free will, and you put up a mortgage. You've become a full guardian, as you call it. And it was not enough for the administration and the legislature, but for the white judgment, for the white press, for the white union. With a complete Machiavellist approach, you're not afraid to sacrifice everything to achieve the goal. For God's sake, where are you going?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0059par0567	Mr. Kaplan... no. Mr. Bayraktutan, Artvin MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0060par0569	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, under the amendment to Article 53 of the Constitution, there is a decree that will also be passed to pensioners. However, the bill does not include any arrangement for pensioners to be able to form unions, join unions or participate in collective contract talks. What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0061par0572	Thank you. Mr. Soriki, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0062par0574	Thank you, Mr. President. Following Mr. Prime Minister's statement that Turkish Journalists' Union President Ercan İpekçi has been actively protesting pressure on the press, it is known that members of the Anadolu Agency of the TGS (Turkey Journalists' Union) have been forced to resign and a yellow union is being formed. In this real light, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: How many members of the Turkish Union of Journalists have been resigned in the state-run Anadolu Agency in the past two months? Question two: do you now intend to return the loss of the current journalist's share of the wear and tear that was removed during your reign? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0063par0579	Thank you, Mr. Sour. Mr. Straight... no. Mr. Erdem, the Elazig MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0064par0582	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there are approximately 1,150 trusted workers working at Elaziğ municipality. Some of these workers haven't been paid in three months, some of them for four months, some of them haven't been paid in longer. I've heard that there are some initiatives at the end of the work of these workers who have raised these problems through the press. I'd like you to do your due diligence on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0065par0585	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0066par0587	Isn't it our turn?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0065par0588	No, it's your turn. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0590	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to thank our fellow congressmen for asking questions. First of all, the existing confederations were asked to be given in numbers. The total number of members of the Confederates is Officer-Sen 505,378, Turkey Public-Sen 394,497, KESK 232.083, United Public-Work 26,422, DESK 4,146, BASK 3,627, Hak-sen 3.499. Now, here are a few questions about our Deputy Prime Minister again. Dear friends, I have stated that the ministry responsible for this law is the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Many of our fellow lawmakers are being evaluated by our fellow ministers on this and many other issues, but I don't really know what these evaluations are for, I don't know, I'm just saying. But the confederations are the most vivid witnesses, the best they know, that there's a mistake in our practice, a favor, a different look, an arrangement to push someone forward, someone back, that doesn't happen in a working environment. So, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, they'll make a statement themselves, but it's against us, and I can clearly say that the law has not made the slightest recommendation until it has come to this point, which is out of the question.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0068par0595	Do you agree with his views, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0596	On the other hand, this union membership bonus is now being included as a collective contract bonus. Our goal here is to make it very clear, very clear, that we want to encourage unionism, organization. So there's an incentive to organize as we speak. Regarding the encouragement of the organisation, this arrangement is in the form of a collective contract bonus. The other thing is the state of those who can't retire because of their age. Mr. Mevlüt often asks, and the National Movement Party says it offers such a law. Dear friends, I would like to rephrase: of course, this is an important approach. If you're not old enough to fill the day of Prim, let's retire, let's lend, let's retire.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0069par0599	A cure, Mr. Secretary, a cure?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0600	If you'll excuse me... Turkey reformed because it was driven to despair in social security.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0069par0602	A transitional process...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0603	The main criteria for reform is age. If you, uh...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0070par0604	What reform?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0605	The 60-year-old Mr. Bulent Ecevit, and the 60-year-old that we all did together and you didn't object to the Constitutional Court. The arrangements you find correct, the ones you find rational.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0071par0606	Don't damage the system, Mr. Secretary, don't damage the system, but find a solution to hungry people.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0607	Now, look, if you're going to fill out the number of pension bonus days and want people to retire after you're not old enough, you're going to break the system.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0071par0608	No, don't spoil it, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0609	I was just about to ask you about that. If you have such a beautiful proposal, it won't break the system's core criteria, we're ready to discuss it with you, we're on the side of the solution, but you're going to break the system, you're going to go to the public and you're going to talk to them.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0071par0610	But instead of finding a solution, you always refuse.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0611	We're ready to receive your opinion. Bring your proposal, sir, and we'll have it.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0071par0612	Okay.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0072par0613	Mr. Secretary, this is a problem, you're the one who's at the point of solving the problem; we're saying our ideas.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0614	Here we are -- if you'll excuse me -- we've solved the problem, and I'm telling you clearly, and we've got all our citizens...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0073par0615	They can't get health care, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0616	...75 million in general health insurance. I'm just saying.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0074par0617	He can't get health care, he paid his premium.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0618	So if these citizens you're talking about aren't paying bonuses today, they're somehow involved in the social security system. They're either covered in social security by paying a small premium or not paying a bonus.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0075par0619	None of the chiefs in Turkey can receive health care.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0620	Look, I want you to take a good look at the system. I mean, the system is so set up that you can also take advantage of health by paying $35, and you can take advantage of no premiums; you can also take advantage of 76 dollars, and you can also take advantage of $211. When you take the system as a whole, you'll see that there's no problem.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0076par0621	The troubled know.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0622	Now, there's a question in the Commission that we've discussed a lot that this law should come to the Commission for Health, Family, Labor and Social Affairs as a Commission. So as our Department of Labor and Social Security, the Commission for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs is the commission that we work directly. When the laws regarding us come in, of course, first of all, as the main commission, we find it right to be discussed there, but here -- I just said so from the bench -- that's how our Parliamentary presidency appreciated the decision on 28 per cent of the budget and the financial issues. So I'd like to point out that in the event of a special effort by the Ministry of Labor or by us, this transfer was not made to the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, so far, most of the regulations related to this law, 4688, have come five times; five, this has been discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission. You know there's a METHIP Project on these seasonal farm workers. Our project to improve their working conditions is now in practice, and our governorships have been given funding for it. Our governorships have the means to organize both housing and all social needs. If there's a problem somewhere, it's the job of the deputy of the nation to report those areas of trouble to the administration, of course, to the administration. And I would like to point out that we're always ready to address any setbacks within the scope of this notification. Some assessments have been made regarding the 4/C. We've made some improvements about him, as you know, over the past term. I would like to present those improvements to our concerned friends in writing. The other thing is, is there a collective contract without a strike? Sure. If that is your constitution, then so be it. Your issue is also under the Constitution. Our friends are doing a great job. Yesterday, they also worked under the Constitutional Platform in Bursa. Now, I believe they will soon return to their desks, and quickly, as the new constitution is being addressed, there will be an arrangement involving the problems of this entire working life. We continue our work with sub-employees and sub-employees. For one thing, I'd like to point out that we're all against the exploitation of labor. I would like to point out that we will bring to you an arrangement by sticking to our meeting with subcontractors, especially Article 2 of the Employment Law, in order to prevent labour exploitation. Our friends mentioned a hunger strike in Osmaniye. Since we don't know what this is about, we'll be interested if it's more detailed, and we don't know what this is about.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0077par0628	Mr. Secretary, my report is at the Justice Department.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0629	Sir, you've taken over this part of the country, you've taken over this part of the country. An approach in the form of... I don't know, don't we know that the MPs who came here came with the votes of the nation? We're here with people's votes. He is asked, "What will be the end of this? ' I'm just saying, maybe it's better if we say it's going to be Turkey. I had to answer that question in the context of this question because I think the very strong accusations are accusations we don't deserve. I'd like to tell the pensioners that union rights are a constitutional issue again. A file on the Turkish Union of Journalists was delivered to me by fellow journalists. I don't know how many resignations I have right now, but I'll get the information and get it to you in writing from the Ministry of Labor. The welfare share is a ministry savings, a minister's savings, not a government savings. While this arrangement was being made, a scientific assessment of the university's risky work for us or for those who worked in those areas was also removed from the part of lawmakers' weariness and the share of journalists' weariness.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0078par0634	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0067par0635	Again, our fellow journalists passed on a file to our Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister has given me this file, and we're having the Science Board working on it again right now. If there's a risk, I'd like to express that we can make the necessary arrangements.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0078par0636	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0079par0637	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0078par0638	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0079par0639	Sir, the Minister is busy avoiding questions. Minister, we submitted a very detailed report on Osmaniye, both to the Grand National Assembly and to the Ministry of Justice a week ago. Look, if people die in there, it's up to the government now, and I want to put that on the record. Two: general health insurance covers everyone. You said. Today, I have made a motion to ask you, if you would kindly examine it, to follow you to the home of a citizen of Mersin who has applied for and died in the Emergency Department of the Cricket State Hospital of Bursa. If he doesn't pay his debt, the follow-up of execution will be initiated with the signature of a chief physician. We've been looking into it long enough, please, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0080par0642	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0081par0645	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit01spe0080par0646	Roll call... Talks have been completed on the entire bill. There's a request for a roll call before the vote, and I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Çam, Mr. Editoglu, Mr. Kuşoglu, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Atici, Mr. Çiray, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Akgöl, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Bay Bayraktutan, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Çetin. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes that the bill shall be passed on to the articles of those who accept... those who refuse... Now, I'm gonna take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Law Bill 200 rows from where we left off. The commission is in place. The government is in place.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0082par0005	Mr. President, sir, a question asked by our lawmakers -- Mr. Minister -- is being asked what will be the end of this -- may be White Turkey. First of all, I condemn it. He is the minister of the Republic of Turkey. So, if you have any intention of turning the state of the Republic of Turkey into a party state, come out and explain it, but the name of this state is Turkey, and no one will be able to change it. You should know that and you should know that. In that respect, if you are the minister of the Republic of Turkey, ask for this statement to be removed and apologize to our nation for the injustice you have done to Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0080par0006	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0083par0007	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement on the same matter. Mr. Minister, the union, the White Judicial, the White Press. Yes, it is because of Ak Turkey. He has actually accepted the press, the Ak Union, the White Judiciary, which they had created. I wish it would go down that way. Thank you. I also resent that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0084par0011	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0085par0013	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has used a figure of speech to make the face of Turkey flow.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0086par0015	It's unresolved, Mr. Mahir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0084par0016	One moment, sir... one moment, please... one moment...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0085par0017	So, it's only by force to get a party state out of here, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0087par0018	Mr. Ünal, let the Minister answer.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0084par0019	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0088par0020	It's the Minister himself who's forcing it. It doesn't suit you, Mr. Secretary. You are the minister of the Republic of Turkey, not of Ak Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0084par0021	Mr. Secretary, would you like to say something?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0089par0022	Mr. President, I'm asking for the minutes. I think it's better to take the transcripts and talk about them because we're all responsible. We own what comes out of our mouths. It's not like we, let alone think, express, not even in our imagination, but I said here in particular, there's so much injustice that there's an adjective in all of our institutions and organizations. So these friends of ours, when you say "subject," when you say "clear press," when you count a lot of things you don't know? I said, are you doing Turkey?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0088par0023	It's better to say it will be. You say it will be.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0089par0024	So, if you'll excuse me, I'm taking this report...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0088par0025	Wasn't Turkey before you?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0089par0026	I mean, I don't think I agree with that question...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0088par0027	Why am I a Minister of the Republic of Turkey? I'm proud of living in Turkey and being a minister of Turkey. You don't say, "I'm the Minister of everyone." You don't say, "I'm the Minister of everyone." That's what I expect of you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0090par0028	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0089par0029	It's not a reality; it's something to be explained by people's past. I just don't think it's enough for one person to take advantage of himself like this in one sentence. Our lives are called Turkey, Turkey, the Republic of Turkey. That's our political life, that's our history.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0090par0031	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0091par0032	You turned White Turkey into Black Turkey. You can only make black Turkey, you can only make black Turkey, you can black out everyone.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0090par0033	Now, let's move on to the interviews of section one. Chapters 1 and 18 are covered by Articles 1 and 18. First speaker on behalf of groups on the first chapter, Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0092par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first part of Bill number 200. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, this bill, brought in with a constitutional amendment on September 12th, which gave public officials the right to a collective contract, finally began to meet at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after 18 months of dragging their feet, and it has been nearly 70 days since January 23rd, and the government has slowed down talks. Before and after the referendum, the AKP ruling and its supporters painted a picture with brilliant words, so that even during the campaign, everything would be beautiful, forward democracy would come, economic, social problems would be solved, Turkey would be opened, union rights would be developed, public rights would be given to public employees instead of public meeting, and those rights would be raised to international standards, and even during the campaign, a union president would be able to say, "It would be so comfortable, I couldn't say, "I't say yes." What did we, the National Movement Party, in spite of these bright promises, say to the people in this great House? We had stated that the AKP was not telling the truth about this constitutional amendment, that its purpose was to establish a biased judiciary, that it was not to move democracy forward, but to make such a sweetening and polished coating on the bitter pill to get the results of yes in the public vote. Who was right? We were right, the National Movement Party was right. What happened to promises to public employees? The promises have been forgotten. Public employees will now drink a glass of water on these bright promises. Public employees were disappointed again, some of them didn't, but yes, gas fell on their share, and if it wasn't enough, the baton fell. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, how the government has discussed this bill that we are now discussing, how the government has handled it, how its outlook on the matter, what its true intentions and mentality was expressed before me by my fellow speakers, who quoted the government's Speaker and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc, from the talks made on December 4th in Bursa. I don't want to repeat these conversations, I'm going to put it in a different direction. And so far, the course of the meeting has shown that Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security has unfortunately begun to follow an attitude that confirms these views. In particular, even the phrase "Ak Turkey" earlier confirms that understanding. Mr. Bulent Arinc, this amendment will be made in accordance with the opinion of the officer-sen. He repeats this several times in his speech and says that Officer-Sen made a heartfelt contribution in the Constitutional vote, and you have no right to talk about the other people working to say no. Officer-Ben knows what to do, he discussed it with the government. Who guided us? Officer-Sen showed it to me. These words are very clear, dear friends, that need no interpretation or encouragement, nor need any political or diplomatic style. And, again, by stating that there is a government that pays civil servants and pensions... so the government repeats it from time to time, there's a government that pays their salaries. They say, as if there were wages not paid or delayed in the government before them. I've asked on the commission or in different environments. When, before the Justice and Development Party government, did the Republic of Turkey fail to pay its officer, its staff? It's a need to explain and explain. Again, Mr. Arinc continued, and if Greece is there, Turkey freezes office salaries here in Greece, workers sign minus 20, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Iceland says so, thank God. I mean, it's a blessing, the government says we're giving it before the day. So we're wondering what the government gave or when before its day.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0093par0046	He gave it to me before the holidays to buy imported angus!
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0092par0047	Just yesterday, some of our pensioners didn't get their pensions on their day in Manisa. Some of it, not all of it. They took some of it one day late, and I can give it to the Minister as well. And Mr. Steel's explanations, unfortunately, are similar. So this is what we've done. We say, "Let a former AKP Minister of Agriculture feed our farmers in the past." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and this time the government will feed the public. Let God feed the land. He means so. Dear friends, these words are not acceptable words, and with this bill, collective contract talks will mean nothing more than a chat meeting, and there is no further arrangement than this collective negotiation system. We can also negotiate collective contracts, even in the form of theater decor, so if you'll excuse me, here's what's going to happen. Three unions meet with the government. The three unions say: "Peace be upon you." The government says, "We are here to make an agreement." Welcome to the government. Have a cup of tea. How are you doing? We're not well, we're miserable. The government says, "You're fine." He says, "You're fine." He says, "When this happens, there's no money, the shop is yours. You and I don't accept these conditions." He says, "By Allah, I'll sign the contract." Mr. Çelik, the government's spokesman, Arinc and Officer-sen, who are left alone, together do so and celebrate the contract. After all, this is the painting that's going to come out. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, this bill has been drafted unilaterally. On behalf of members of the unions agreed with the government in the talks, it was not included in the bill that confederations should be applied to the judicial path towards general regulatory procedures that concern all public employees. Many vital issues, such as the signing of the three confederates with the most members of the collective contract talks, the validation of the collective contract text with the approval of the union representatives, the collective contracting of union representatives, and the detection of the service arms unions, are unfortunately not included in the process of negotiations between the government and the unions. Again, the Minister met with representatives of public employees, had discussions. As we have stated, no changes have been made in the agreed-upon matter. Then why did you make these calls? For show, it was made to look like it was done. One of the most important issues in this agreement was the collective agreement of the service arm, along with the representative and general collective agreement of the Public Officers Referee Board. However, we see that the bill does not have a collective agreement on the service arm, but has been developed in a form of listening to the union representative who is in charge of the service branch alone. A member of the Council of Referee of Public Officers shall be elected by the Council of Ministers by the Supreme Court, the Court, the Court's chair and the office's heads. But the union proposal is Supreme Court 9. That's what the head of his department did. However, the government is making a special effort to become a president who will act on its orders. The government will choose the person it considers most appropriate among about 70 to 80 people as chairman of the board. The chairman of the board is extremely important, and if there is a person who will act on the government's orders, there is no possibility or possibility that anything will come out of this collective agreement against the will of the government alone, dear friends. The fact that Mr. Minister was authorized to sign the collective contract on behalf of the President of the Public Officers Referee Board, the President of the Public Officers Unions Committee, the President of Officer-Sen, and the Public Employment Committee has made the existence of other unions almost meaningless. If a union openly abandons public employees, other unions have no legal right to object, and if they have to watch this negotiation, what kind of collective agreement would we consider, even a collective meeting? As soon as Officer-Sen signs the President, the other Federations will have no right to appeal to the collective contract. It's clear that the Confederacy of Officer-Sen is clearly supported by the government, and at the same time, at the collective agreement table, the government is continuing its understanding of what I said. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is strictly a matter of not breaking the promise of the government, deceiving the officers, not respecting the work of public employees. Therefore, this law states that we will vote no on your proposal, and I pay tribute to your honorable committee.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0094par0061	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. The second speaker on the first chapter is Mr. Izzet Çetin, Ankara MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Cetin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0095par0066	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment to Law 4688. I salute you all. My dear friends, the Minister has just made it very clear that this is the law of the Constitution. He sums up the content of the law, the quality of the law very well. In fact, during the meeting of this law in Parliament, the ruling party presents our view of the MPs and the whole Parliament as workers, workers, workers, as countries, as rulings, as parties. Of course, the fact that the bill is being discussed in two sections is like smuggling from a fire. So it's an example of the quality of the law, in terms of the quality of the law, in terms of the ministry's view of employees, in terms of the quality of the law, to avoid the discussion of the provisions of a law that concerns 2,600 thousand officers and so many civil servants, and to be given three or five minutes on the amendment proposals alone. On the other hand, just a moment ago, when our friend, the President of the Budget Plan Commission, told us about their talks, he tried to illustrate the embarrassment of the law from different countries. You know, there's a saying, we all know: there's no social precedent. There's nothing in this country, there's nothing in this country, there's this country, there's this country, there's this country, there's no law. If there is a social need, it is arranged, done, and especially sought understanding. I took part in the negotiations during the negotiations of this law, on the subcommittee, on the commission, even after the Budget Plan Commission, when it was forced to be sent to the Labour Commission, even though I was not a member of the Commission. It's not that I'm not interested; it's about time for workers, whether they're civil servants or workers, to be perceived as the main elements of this country. When you come to power, you will bring the bad examples of the world as an example. I agree 100% with my friend, the President of the Budget Plan Commission, that the definition of officer is not so broad in any country. Of course, there's no other country where the janitor, the painter, the doorman, etcetera are considered officers. So there's a saying the Prime Minister said on August 24, 2010, that he called the unions, the officers' unions: "Come, let's remove the labor-memur segregation, and meet at the workplace." As the Republican People's Party, we are on our way to meet in the working community, to raise employees' rights to a level in democratic countries, and in accordance with our social development, we are ready to make our own laws, dear friends. My dear friends, of course, I'm not going to tell you the 18th article of the bill, part of it, part of it, because if I tell you the names of 18 articles, I'm going to have another minute. But just to be clear, we're dealing with a bill that ignores the principle of undistribution and integrity of union rights. This principle is a principle that the ILO (ILO) agrees with. According to this principle, the freedom of organization, or union rights, is one with the right to strike, with the right to a collective contract. If you don't have one of these feet, you're short, you're short. For him, the bill prohibits the right to organize many officers, while the whole of the officers are initially crippled by banning their right to strike. A second injury -- there really is no other country -- I will create a friendly union, create a confederate confederation. This bill contains more provisions than the collective debate on the Constitutional Amendment. My dear friends, you may not agree to this, but let me explain. If the parties failed to reach an agreement in the collective meeting, the Council of Ministers decided, at least the officer could go to the judiciary, and with the arrangement now brought in, the People's Officers' Board of Judges has been established, and if the agreement cannot be reached, then the final promise of the Public Officers Referee Board is final, there is no judiciary, there is no judicial path. So what happens if the union or confederacy, which is the side of the collective contract, or the People's Referee Committee against it, doesn't end in conflict, or they don't bring the collective contract anywhere voluntarily? A committee will make a final decision in the name of a collective agreement, and we will call it a collective contract, and we will deceive the officer, and we will deceive ourselves. It's an illusion, dear friends. So even though this collective contract arrangement was brought to officers as a right after the Constitutional Amendment in 2010, it does not include a right to strike, it does not include a right to a collective contract, but it also eliminates the free collective contract and voluntary signing principle. On the other hand, dear friends, there are many restrictions on the union rights of public employees in this collective agreement again. See, I -- I'm not going to read it again -- and I'm going to tell you about the brief adventure of this law, Law 4688 came to this Parliament in 24/6/1999, it was discussed in 1999, it was held in Parliament on 18 April 2000, the commissions completed its work, and the Commission began its negotiations at 21/5/2001 a year later. This bill was discussed in three combinations, in the 114th, 123rd and 124th, which was in 2001 and became legal. Now, there's Mahfuz Guler, the spokesman for your then, your Favourite Party, our friend Mahfuz Guler, who you're continuing with, who's very nice because you're in opposition, so I suggest to my friends in the AKP. Again, in the same way, your Deputy Prime Minister has a motion for what? It's about unionisation, and who should be a member of the unions, and who should be a member of the unions? And I'll simply tell you who signed that motion, and you may not all be able to look at Fethullah Erbaş, Mahfuz Güler, Lütfi Yalman, Bkent Arinc, Maliki Dragon Arvas, Musa Demirci and Latif Öztek. Now, I, the friends of the Republic's People's Party's motion to change the 15th amendment that our Deputy Prime Minister gave 11 or 12 years ago, will we see that it's the same one he said eleven years ago today? Is there a point of view between the Ponzi scheme and the AKP? Or, Mr. Secretary, does he have his own opinions that day, or does he not? I know that in some laws, Mr. Secretary is in trouble. There was no forced entry in this law. So come out here and we've done this, we've done this, and we've done this, and we've said, "You can either tell me what's prevented you from telling me ten years of the work, or I really suggest that you keep the words you said ten years ago, Mr. Secretary. My dear friends, this bill brings forth confederations, says we've expanded some rights, expanded the scope of unionism. Enlarged what? Only a candidate officer and officers working during the probationary period could not be a member of the union in the previous legislation, only they can be members now, not military workers or civil servants who work in security or in justice services. Yeah, we're dealing with an understanding that can't even stand the union set up by those who work in the judiciary. So no one should praise this law because we've brought forward rights to Memura, we've brought democratic rights. This law has nothing to praise. It is only you and the AKP and Officer who are going to praise him that no one else is going to be able to adopt this bill because we have spoken on commissions, made suggestions, and no proposals from the opposition have been accepted. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now we're just talking. It's no good for the officer or the country.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0096par0082	Mr. Cetin, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0095par0083	Turkey will also receive criticism from this law on application committees. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0096par0086	Thank you. The third speaker is İdris Baluken, Bingol MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Baluken, please.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0097par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a promise on the first chapter of Bill 200. On behalf of my group, I salute your delegation. This bill, of course, is a bill that should include arrangements for public workers to seek union rights, but when we look at its contents, we can see very clearly what kind of mentality is in place for public workers. I'd like to stress that this mentality was a mindset that interfered with gas, pressure water, police force, to public workers who came to the centre of D.C. last week to fight for rights in the middle of D.C. Before we go into this conversation, I would like to point out that I have again condemned the difficult and violent methods used against the right-seeking methods of public workers. Of course, there was a very serious expectation of social parties, unions, in the bill on the unions of public officials number 4688. When they met with the government, they passed some demands, and they continued the dialogue with the government for a period of time, so that they could somehow be involved in this bill, and that the demands of public workers, both social rights and rights, which they expressed in terms of political rights. You know, this bill was put on hold for 18 months before it came to Parliament. The common expectation was that for such a long time, if the government is considering this bill, it will surely come here with a bill that will meet the expectations of social parties and unions. However, in Law 4688, we see that there are some regulations that are completely contrary to universal union rights search methods or universal human rights declarations. We're talking about a bill of law on freedom of organization, about the right to strike and about the general expectations of the collective contract, which is contrary to these international contracts, which is actually contrary to the Constitution. Because there are very clear provisions in the Constitution that say that if there are international contracts signed under it, the international contract is based on international contracts where the law and international contract conflict. Dear lawmakers, look, we're seeing a process where you don't have the right to strike on collective contracts. So a collective agreement without a strike is not already called a collective contract in the universal literature, in the trade rights-fighting literature. That would be a way for public talks to be revisited by the AKP to be brought before public workers and employees. The main goal here is to create a conflict that will please the government at the collective agreement table, which will not disturb the government. Where do we say this: look, I'm going to give you a number of figures on how to give the powers of the collective contract to the confederations: you know there are now three major confederations. There are 232,083 members of KESK, one of the largest confederations here, 394,497 members of the People's-Sen of Turkey, 626,580 members in total, and 57 per cent of the number of members of these total confederations. The third confederation, Officer-Sen, represents a total number of members, 510,378, or 43 per cent. But when we look at the general authority in the collective contract here, the two unions, who are more members than Officer-Sen, are granted representation by three members in their collective contract talks, while Officer-Sen is represented by four members, even though there are fewer members. We see here that all signature authority and all authority in the decision-making process have been given to the government's initiative, in a way that doesn't disturb the government's decision-making process. Look, there's Confederation Officer-Sen, not only on behalf of KESK and Turkey's Public-Sen, but also on behalf of trade unions who are not members of the confederation, or on behalf of employees who are not members of any union, we see that all authority has been given to Officer-Sen. Again, we see that Officer-Sen was given a representation of nine people at the Union Committee of Public Servants, a representation of four people, and a representation of KESK of two. I'd like to rephrase here that there's no structure here that can be completely antidemocratic and representation-sized and completely expressive to the employees. Of course, in this collective contract process, we can say that the unions involved in the service arm have been completely excluded and eliminated. The collective agreement also has serious difficulties within its scope. In particular, the collective agreement is designed to cover employees from 4/A and 4/B over the staff and position. Here we see that a very large public employee, a public worker, is not part of this collective agreement, in any way, by the 4/C" people or subcontractors, or those who work temporarily, or work in the service sector. When we look at the scope, we see here that more financial and social rights are at the forefront of the contract, and general demands for democratic, political, professional or autonomy rights are completely out of contract. One of the most important arrangements is the destruction of the localization process. Now, we insist that democracy has led to the path of localisation, we say that the central state structure is increasingly weakening democracy, but there are some regulations in every bill you bring here that somehow disrupt this localisation. Look, what we're looking at here is that collective talks between local governments and local service unions sitting at the table have been completely disabled. Of course, before that, all Bel-sen had actually applied to the European Court of Human Rights, and this European Court of Human Rights had concluded the application against the Union. Therefore, we would like to point out that there is an arrangement here that does not conform to universal norms in both terms of ILO contracts or in terms of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Europe or in terms of the revised European Social Condition. Dear lawmakers, especially in the talks that these local governments have made with trade unions, there is also a strange, different arrangement that puts all the pressure on the local government's union. If there's some sort of uncompromising union issue in the talks, local authorities are allowed to sit at the table on a number of issues we've discussed with another union. At this point, we would like to rephrase the dissonance of both the ILO contracts and the European Social Condition. Here, I would especially like to point out that there is an arrangement on one side that will please the government at the table, and there is also an arrangement that will not upset the government again and that the government will somehow agree to the terms set before it. In particular, when we look at the structure of the Public Officers Referee Board, we see that four members have been determined by confederations, that one academic is an academic that the confederates will show, but the rest of the academics are fully in charge of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Labour and Social Security in some way. I'd like to rephrase that you have an understanding here that is completely clouding the expectations of employees, and in some way puts public workers in the way of the right-seeking struggle. In particular, in the September 12th referendum, the entire population supported the AKP (AKP) in a search for the rights and freedom demands of public workers in the working life and the solution of the Kurdish problem. But I regret to inform you that these expectations have been completely wasted. It falls to parliament to withdraw this bill and find a basis for reconciliation with social parties and unions and bring it back to the General Assembly, according to him. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0098par0107	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the groups, the last speaker is Mr. Mahmut Kozar, a member of Şanliurfa on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0099par0111	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the union of public officials and the first chapter of the collective contract law. I hereby salute the High Council. As a friend of yours, from the first day of office unionism, from branch president to president, I'd like to point out that I've watched and listened with great surprise to the speakers before us.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0100par0113	Why are you surprised?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0099par0114	It is an important law that concerns 2.5 million public employees, 1,850,000 pensioners, and about 20 million people with their families. Today is a historic day for public employees. For years we have been negotiating a collective contract law, including collective agreements, collective agreements, and social balance agreements in local services. Dear friends, from the day we arrived in the government, the key steps have been taken to democratise the working life, but the most important step, either at the point of our nation's future or in order for the democratisation of working life, has undoubtedly been the September 12th referendum. After the referendum, the changes in laws 2821 and 2822, which are both the product of the coup, and the fact that we have reached the final point of view today in the legal provisions that include collective contract rights to officers, is very important in this sense. When Turkey's European Progress Report for 2011 is looked at, we have a clear view of the distances we have taken in this sense -- looking at the progresses between the parts of working life and 2011 in the previous European Progress Report. Dear friends, when we look at the history of civil unionism, we are able to see that along with the Constitution of 1961, public workers have been given the right to form and organize a union, but with the law issued in 1965 -- with Law 624 -- there are many restrictions. And then we see that the fragments of the 1961 coup were retrieved by 1971. International contracts signed by Turkey in 1992 followed a change in the Constitution in 1995 and a new era began in the area of civil service unionism in Turkey. However, despite the amendment to the Constitution in 1995, I would like to remind you that secondary legislation was made in 2001, after nearly six years. Critics on the delay of this law... that there was no delay in the period before the constitutional amendment and the second amendment of legislation, that after the September 12th referendum, Turkey had a general election process, and in the later period, over six months, a dialogue mechanism was run with social parties. Because of the current legal arrangement, it is also important to specify in particular the gold that our employees or pensioners will not be victims in any way. I would like to express in particular that all the proceeds of the first collective agreement to be made following the current legal arrangements will be back-to-backed from January 1st and that no one of our employees will be victimised. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you a few examples as a friend in the process what the collective negotiation law brings to employees and what kind of setup it is. It's a system of collective negotiations with the government, where you agree that the agreement has no validity, and if you don't agree, you have the authority to go to the Compromise Board as unions, but the decisions made by the Compromise Board are not binding. However, in the current collective contract structure, we are talking about a legal arrangement in which the confederation of the most members of the general issues is on the side, in which the collective contract of the service arm of 11 of the 11 service branches is brought in, in addition to that -- which we know very well that the European Court of Human Rights, which all of our fellow speakers have opened, has been disinclined, and that the case of the European Court of Human Rights, which all of us, with which the European Court of Human Rights has opened, and that the Court of Human Rights of Human Rights has not been taken into consideration, and that the European Court of Human Rights of Human Rights has agreed on the basis of Human Rights, and that the European Court of Human Rights of Human Rights, and that the Court of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights, which is now in accordance with the rights of Human Rights has been established, and that the rights of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights, and that the Court of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights of Human Rights, and the Court of Human Rights is a legal Court of Human Rights. I'd like to thank you for your contract. Dear friends, here are a few sentences about the structure of the Referee Board. In the structure of the Board of Judges, four of them from the unions, one from the government, one from a professor or professor named by trade unions, one from a professor appointed by the government, one from an equal panel of judges, one from the head of the Board of Judges... Now, given the European Union practices, I'm not saying this as an example, but these legislations are being drawn up with a horizon that sees the rules that Europe has now set about working life and much further ahead of its contracts. Today, in most European Union countries, the decision to reconcile is not binding. Look, in all the talks, the Swedish model has been expressed all the time, and friends from the Commission meetings will remember it. I looked at the Swedish model, and the latest agreement on collective contracts in Sweden requires the approval of the Parliamentary Plan and Budget Commission to be valid, but when it is linked to the collective contract of the employees' will, there is direct binding of it; it is the authority of the confederacy with the majority of members of the general board, and it is the authority of the service union, which has the most members in all the service arm. We don't describe any confederation with the law, we don't describe any union, but nobody's sorry, we don't have the authority to give it to the staff from here on Parliament's will. Here, the union, which has the most members in the service arm, comes in and makes its collective contract, applies to the Referee Board, and the decision of the Referee Board is binding, and according to this, the rights of the employees are regulated. Of course...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0101par0126	If he doesn't, if he doesn't!
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0099par0127	Now, dear friends, in a collective contract, you have to grant the Referee Board the authority to apply to a mechanism that you have authorized to sign. There's no world order anywhere in the world where there's three, four, five, and everyone can't apply to the Referee Board in their own way, so let me just put it this way. Dear friends, of course, this law has new assurances for union representatives. In particular, there are regulations that allow over 100,000 new employees to be unionized, allowing candidates to become members of their superiors and assistants, where there are more than 100 and 100. There are arrangements that allow union union representatives four hours a week. I believe that both collective contract law 2821 and 2822 will come to the House in the coming days, and the other, with the legal arrangements for working life, with regard to business health and safety, will come to a much more important point in working life. I repeat: this law is a very important law, a historical law, a law that has been waiting for years and answers to the expectations of employees. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked on this bill. I sincerely wish that this law would be good for the public in private and for the nation, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0102par0134	Thank you, Mr. Runar. Now, on behalf of the members, Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0103par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're discussing a bill that matters, or should be important, today. Public officials can have two consequences of unions and collective agreements, two consequences of such a law. First: the development of public servants' responsibilities and the setting of their rights through collective agreements and negotiations. One, he may have such a purpose. The second is that it contributes to the development and continuation of democracy. This law has two such important consequences. I care much more about democracy's contribution to the development and continuation of democracy because democracy is not a simple regime, as you know very well; democracy is a very complicated regime, it's a difficult regime to implement, but democracy is the only way to free communities and individuals. We have to get through this somehow. For democracy to be established on solid foundations, it must be given responsibility and authority to the individual and society, so the civil society must be given the right to be given, in order for democracy to flourish in NGOs. I also think that we should consider the concept of a collective contract, that we should study it in this direction, and that we should study this law in that direction. Democracy is not only the name of the regime, which elects lawmakers and mayors, but the fact that MPs and mayors are out of the polls are not only a democracy; it is more important that everyone, every body, every civil society organization, every unit, every professional institution, should take responsibility for it as much as possible. You have to be able to make it happen. That's how we get it. We can provide such institutions by making arrangements that give them as much rights and responsibility as possible, as well as the laws that regulate such rights by civil servants, as well as by the Common Contract Act. Public officials and the collective contract law should be an example of this, that's what I think. My personal opinion is that this could be a huge benefit to democracy, and in that way, civil society would have to set a very important example of its participation in democracy. The purpose of this law is for government officials to charge employees. Public employees, government officials were paid before this, the government always paid them, every year or every six months, according to inflation. Just because there's a collective agreement, just because there's a union doesn't mean it's going to add up. Of course, that's one of the goals, it needs to be achieved, but in order to achieve that, you'd have to have a strike first. There's no right to strike, as you know. So what needs to be seen is the formation, the development, the continuation of democracy. I'm studying the text of the law in that sense, and I'm trying to study it in that sense. I'm afraid I can't see much in that sense either. Why can't I see much? Now, look, some provisions, for example, the 18th article of the bill, the collective contract, considering the existing legislation that regulates the financial and social rights of public officials... (Look, please pay attention to this, lawmakers.) The rules of the current legislation can't be outside of them and apply to public officials. It says that the collective contract talks can't be outside the existing legislation. It says, "One." Two, even though he's a public servant, a civil servant, he's taking out too many people. So he doesn't have any alternatives. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There's no way out of what the government predicted. So it is very difficult to say that supporting this law is appropriate. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0104par0148	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The second speaker on behalf of his subjects is İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0105par0153	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf over the first chapter of the 200 rows under discussion of the Bill of Law. I salute your General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the bill we've discussed has been originally tried to build on two laws. One is the Law of the Unions of Public Servants 4688, dated June 25, 2001. We passed this law in 2001 in the 57th government. Again, some Constitutional amendments dated October 3, 2001, 4709, were given the right to form a union for public officials, along with the legislation that envisions and regulates the amendment. Gene, we released this during the 57th Government, and finally the bill was brought before us due to the necessity of some amendments to the Constitutional Amendment after the referendum of 5982, dated May 7, 2010. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, the important thing is that with the referendum on September 12, 2010, the vast majority of the promises are not fulfilled. Again, we see that these promises cannot be fulfilled. In fact, there was no regulation in that referendum for our martyrs and veterans, one of the most important bleeding wounds in society. In this referendum, public employees were promised collective agreements in international norms, but after a period of 16 months, we came across a bill that could not be carried out. At that time, there really was hope, a expectation, but in the time that passed, the plan was a complete disappointment. On the other hand, in this bill, we can't see the agreement reached by confederations, precious MPs. He's pretty far away from this understanding, from his original form. Only one public union has been weighed down. In fact, we also have an opportunity here to see an opinion and practice of the current AKP government. What's that? It's an app they care about and it's only done through a union. So this is an important indicator, of course, an important indicator of neutrality. The name of this bill is also mentioned by the public official, but when we look at its contents, we see that there is no compromise even in the definition of a public official, and that there is no definition of a public official, precisely and clearly. Dear lawmakers, there's also an international dimension. Look, the European Social Condition, the government, on 9 April 2007, agreed to submit some reservations, but despite the fact that there was a collective agreement in all international agreements and all countries that signed this condition, unfortunately, within those reservations, the AKP's Authority, including the strike, put all collective action decisions into the 6th article, including the strike. My dear friends, now there is no representation in this bill involving about 5 million public servants, pensioners, relatives. It is also possible to see that they were not given a number of provisions in international norms and ILO contracts. We also see that the hikes are not brought to public officials who find themselves seriously victimised under overwhelming pressure from economic conditions. So given this bill, all of these conditions, we can't approve, we can't approve. We think that we wish that a bill that will include all international contracts that are cared for, that are at peace with the working life of the workers, and all international contracts that are part of it, would come to this General Assembly at once, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0106par0162	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Congressmans, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure on chapter one for 15 minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. In first place, Mr. Erdemir, the MP of Bursa...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0107par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the European Commission's 2011 Progress Report noted that the union rights do not meet EU standards and ILO contracts. Again, at the International Labour Organization's 100th working conference, the Republic of Turkey has been blacklisted along with countries such as Swaziland, Zimbabwe and Burma on the issue of the ILO contracts, firing and pressure against trade unionists. It must have been guilt that you passed this bill to the General Assembly, without transferring it to the EU Integration Commission in Parliament, without harmonizing it with the European Social Condition, ILO contracts and the EU acquisitor. Just as you said it was for your politics, you said it was for your unionist, it was yellow. Do you think your yellow trade union laws meet the obligations of the Republic of Turkey or of the EU accession process or of international agreements? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0108par0171	Mr. Pitcher, Mersin MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0109par0172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a collective contract with no right to strike is almost like an impotent government; it has a government, but it has no power; it has a laborer, it can't use its right to work. You've been in power alone for ten years. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, what in God's name are you afraid of? I thought you were strong. I thought the Prime Minister was the world leader. You're afraid of your own officer and you don't give him the right to strike? You can't fool anyone by saying perfect is the enemy of good. We're showing you a way not to be perfect, but at least to do a little better than good. And you always needed our opinion. Here's to the GSS. You've added a GSS charge to the citizen who's already paying taxes on general health insurance. Then you say: "We've taken everyone under the umbrella of the GSS. " Our citizens who can't pay the additional GSS bonus can't get health care, Mr. Secretary, they can't really get it, they don't get it, they don't get it, but they're being held hostage. I presented it to the House with its samples, and I offer it to you with your appreciation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0110par0178	Mr. Illum, our Kütahya MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0111par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I just asked you, and I didn't get your answer. What other world countries have such a plan? Can you give us some examples of world countries with similar arrangements? Two: When and when will public officials be paid for the delays so far when this bill becomes law? What is the additional burden of the payment to the treasure, and from what source will the cargo to this treasure be met? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0112par0183	Congressman of Manisa Special...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0113par0184	Mr. Minister, in response to a question I have submitted to your ministry, according to the response we received today, medicines that have not been paid for against the Social Security Agency have resulted in the full trial of unpaid treatment fees, and the overall position of the institution in courts submitted by our citizens has been inadmissible, especially the reduced repayment list. Are these lists that have been narrowed down in the next few days, over the past year, considered to be reassessed and reconsidered in terms of patient rights?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0112par0185	İstanbul MP Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0114par0186	Mr. Secretary, we've had a discussion with you for ten years. When the group is acting president -- I'll get the prisoners -- he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming -- when is the village law coming? When will the mayor's rights be resolved? I've been having this dream for ten years now, and I wonder if I'll ever have a new dream. Two: There was no right to any of the neighborhood guards -- the head of the state's personnel department -- taken into law enforcement class. They had no right to be taken into the safety service class between their former class and their new class. Once again, I have your attention. Three: Do you know how much the village rangers get paid, how much pension the village rangers get? What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0115par0190	Mr. Öğüt, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0116par0191	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0115par0192	Mr. Ağbaba, Malatya MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0117par0193	Mr. President, today is the sixty-fourth year of the massacre of Sabahttin Ali. Sixty-four years of unsolved murder. This murder that has been transferred to the national emotion organization must now be illuminated. All documents must be collected, and the perpetrators must be announced to the public. An apology must be made on behalf of the state in the family of Ali. You see, in a poem by Morningin Ali, he says: Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. In the morning, Ali was slaughtered with her troubles, her systems, and her days to see. He didn't mind, but we have to. In this parliament, the Prime Minister must at least ease the pain of sixty-four years by apologizing on behalf of the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0118par0200	Thank you. Mr. Halaman, Adana MP...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0119par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister because the concerned ministers are here. And I'm sorry to ask, but it means something again. Four months ago, after the death of 33 of our citizens in the press, who were generally called the Uludere incident, Turkey's Grand National Assembly sent a commission, politicians went away, they paid their respects. And per Fert, here, they paid 123,000 liras. In Istanbul the tent city burned down, and the minister visited it, and expressed his condolences. Three months ago, Gökdere Dam exploded in Kozan district of Adana. 12 of our people received the mercy of Hakk, and six of them were not found dead. In this Grand National Assembly of Turkey, as they sent to Uludere, they did not set up a commission, the ministers did not go, the politicians did not go. Isn't this a precedent with the nation? Don't they have the right?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0120par0207	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0121par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd also like to ask Mr. Secretary: Officers and payees' credit card debt has gone up a lot, a lot of files are being filed in the executive offices. Is the government going to do a study on credit card loans and individual loans, such as the ease of payment, or the removal of interest? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0122par0211	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0212	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we have no special interest in not being referred to the EU Integration Commission. The Common Business Relations Bill was referred to the EU Commission.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0124par0214	Why didn't this come?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0215	This, our will, is not an event in our hands. The House has a working system, and I think it would be wise for you to consider these issues in that framework. We're implementing a legal arrangement within the framework of the EU and ILO norms. As you know, ILO and EU norms have determined the framework of organisation and collective bargaining, but each country has its own conditions. We also have a field on those conditions, and I want to say that we have a field of movement. As for the other questions, it's not the government's policy to close the union of the members of the judiciary... according to the law, the union can't be established by profession. The union, consisting of members of the judge, is also closed by court order. The additional increase will be as soon as possible... so, if we get this law out as soon as possible, we'll set the additional raises at the collective contract table. Our friends ask how much it costs. The cost of the collective contract...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0125par0219	The cost of delay...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0220	...what it will be, and backwards, of course, is the arrangements that will include four months or five months. Besides, I've made my assessment of the right to strike. The constitution is clear, and I hope that all parties will carry out the constitutional amendment together, and in the opinion of the Republican People's Party -- which they have just expressed -- I say we're willing to make a new constitution within the framework of the understanding of the workers they've said to our President. Mr. Aslanoglu Group went to my term as acting president. At that time, the chiefs had a 100 per cent increase, with the decision of the Council of Ministers, and you were still very persistent, and we did what we had to do with your support. But today, the village law continues to work. The answer to this question, you'll appreciate it, our Home Secretary, and when it comes out, they're predicting this law, what kind of calendar, and hopefully our Home Secretary will give us the information in the most healthy way. Other than that, I'm stating that it's not true that 4/C (C) people are not members of the union. In addition, tell me one law in other countries that says, "Is there such a law?" For example, without the approval of the Minister of Finance in France, such a collective agreement cannot be carried out. So it's very good. If you're saying it's good, we can bring it in and put it in. Here, in a developed European country, I suppose none of you will approve of it. For him, I mean it as a more advanced arrangement. And, of course, there are other answers, my friends. About the village rangers... they've visited us in Parliament like you have in the past week, and we've had our talks with them. How much do they get paid, and we'll give you a detailed introduction in writing. Let me put it this way, Mr. Group President has just made an assessment of our conversation. In that frame, we said, "Let the witnesses come, and let's give a proper answer." The transcripts are here, folks. One of our dear Congressmans, Mr. Aytuğ Attı Bey, who said: "You have not finished, you have taken over life -- you continue to run and live, you have created white justice, you have formed white press, you have formed white union. You have done this, and you have done this, and he says to the back: "For God's sake, where are you going?" Asked the question, "Where are you going?"
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0126par0227	Good question.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0228	So I said, "Sir, you've taken over this part of the country, you've taken over this part of the country. I don't know, I mean, don't you know that the people who come in here, they come in with votes? You're here with people's votes. They ask, "What will be the end of this? I'm just saying, maybe it's better if we say it's going to be White Turkey. I'm saying it's going to be White Turkey. Because you're counting so white, white, white, with your expression...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0229	That's different. No more Turkey, no more whites.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0230	Excuse me, sir. Mr. President, excuse me.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0231	No more Turkey, first Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0232	Look, after you've said so much, you ask, "What's going to happen?" And I'm like, "Well, then it'll be White Turkey."
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0233	So you admit to being a party government.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0234	And then I say: I had to answer this in terms of this question, because I think that very severe accusations are accusations that we don't deserve. So...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0235	Don't interrupt Turkey, Minister, don't interrupt Turkey.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0236	Mr. President, let me put it this way:
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0237	Do not divide Turkey as pure.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0238	People who sit in these seats have to respect MPs, parliament, the nation. Maybe, maybe?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0239	Respectful, respectful of will.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0240	I specifically wanted to see if there was anything wrong, but... if there was, the reason I wanted to apologize was to apologize to you people, to apologize to you, but as you can see, a wrong problem is that I can't be involved in a problem that's being taken to the wrong place, that I can't be involved in a problem that's being taken to the wrong place.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0241	It's about a party... and your answer is wrong, Mr. Secretary. It's about a staffing...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0242	Yeah, well, you asked questions, we answered.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0128par0243	Admit that the answer is wrong.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0244	There is no other Turkey. This Turkey can't be divided, the others, these, these, these things, Turkey can't be divided.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0245	Turkey will never be divided. Where do you mean?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0127par0246	What are you going to do, throw them in jail, kill them or send them to a isolation camp?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0123par0247	Yes, the total number of members of the confederations is not important in determining representatives. Being a union in charge of the service branch determines the number of representations. Examples can be given, for example, from officer-sen, from public-sen, from KESK. In whatever service branch they have the most members, they also have the authority to represent in that service branch. Yes, Mr. President, that's all I have to say in short.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0129par0249	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0130par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0129par0251	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0130par0252	We have some more time, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words to the Minister.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0129par0253	From where you are, please, not a minute, 45 seconds. Besides, if Mr. Cihaner's on the list, if they'll let you talk to him, you can.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0131par0255	Sir, he wants to talk about teasing, not teasing!
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0129par0256	He didn't say it out of spite, sir. Excuse me. Mr. Cihaner.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0132par0259	The first union of judges and prosecutors established in Turkey has been closed following the trial of Judiciary-Sen Ankara Governorate, and the Supreme Court has approved this decision, and the trade union ban has been on grounds. However, we do know that trade ban is basically a ban on trade unions from March 12th. Is there a second country in the world where judges and prosecutors are banned from forming unions? That's the first one. Secondly, the Ministry of Labour and Social Security regulations on which the public officials will be members of the union indicate that judicial workers may be members of the union established by office employees. Are the judges and prosecutors office officers in your eyes? Another one...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0133par0263	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0134par0265	Mr. President, people with a bit of psychology, a little bit of psychiatric knowledge will assess the position of the Minister. When I told him a little bit of the truth, he went out of his way to deny it, and while he was denying it, he actually admitted it. I've already filed reports that it's not a denial, it's an admission. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0135par0267	As a physician? As a physician!
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0136par0268	Thank you, thank you, sir. He's on the books. Now, dear friends, item one...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0137par0270	Mr. President, I have a short supply. I'd like to make a brief statement according to Article 60 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0136par0271	Here, from where you're sitting, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0137par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Mr. Çelik has an assessment of what Mr. Çelik said when the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget was being discussed on the budget law of 2002, and I read exactly: "Power" means authority. Authority is like a double-edged sword. Sharpness requires precision. Sensitivity in government means respect for human rights, therefore respect for our people to express faith, law, custom, thinking and thinking. If there is injustice and injustice in the government, it is respect for the right to resist injustices.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0138par0276	What year is it?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0137par0277	2002. Does the Minister still hold that view? If it's for protection, the person who came to Ankara to use their democratic rights...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0139par0280	Mr. President, the question-answer is over, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0140par0281	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you very much, sir. [[Continue]] Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on Article 1 of the same nature, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the strike be added after the declaration of the Treaty of the First Amendment in Article 1 of the Law shall be passed under the Law of the 200 Numbered Public Officials Unions. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Of the 200 rows in question, 1st Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions, 1. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutca Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 1-25/6/2001 and the Law on Public Servants' Unions No. 4688 have been renamed the Unions of Public Officials, the Common Contract and Strike Law. Do you agree with the same motions, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0141par0304	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0140par0305	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0142par0306	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0140par0307	On a list of demands?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0143par0308	Erol Dora...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0140par0309	Mr. Dora, Mardin MP. Here you go. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0144par0313	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the amendment motion made by us on the 1st amendment to the Law on Public Officers Unions, 200 rows. I salute you all. Mr. President, the bill that opens the way for public officials to a collective contract is, above all, late. While a delayed law should satisfy the workers, the international agreements emphasised freedom to be ordained, the right to Engagement, and the forms of collective action are not included in this change. The bill has a content that is generally minimised by the rights of public officials, narrowed down the scope of the collective contract, which is possible only to be signed within the government's will, and most importantly without objection. The form of mass action and the right to strike are essential to democracies. This quality is binding for countries who are on the side of contracts, such as the International Labour Organization (ILO) and many international contracts and other international agreements. The 90th article of the Constitution shall be based on inter-national agreements on basic rights and freedoms, and on inter-national agreements that may arise due to different provisions of the law on the same issue. According to this, the right to strike, which has been guaranteed by international agreements and is required by the state of social law, has not been secured legally by the constitutional amendment and this bill that he passed after that. Mr. President, one of the most important flaws of the bill is that there has been a long-standing collective contract in local service business, and although these contracts have been registered by European Court of Human Rights decisions, local services do not foresee separate agreements with business branches and local governments. The 22nd article of the bill, the signing of contracts in the local administrations, organises contracts in municipal and municipal private administrations, but so far ignores all public contracts in the local service business sector, guaranteed by the European Court of Human Rights. Article 22 states that agreements in the local administrations will not be considered a collective contract and will not be applied to the Court of Referee of Public Officials. The bill, which determines the duration of the contracts will be implemented during the general elections of local governments, states that the payments made based on this contract will not be considered a earned right. In this regard, economic and social rights earned by local governments are ignored. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the other side of the bill that is problematic is the matter of representation in collective contracts. The Committee of Public Officials Unions to run and sign collective contracts has a serious representation problem, and many unions are uncomfortable with it. According to the provisions carried out in Article 19 of the bill, three confederation members with the highest members are able to join the collective contract, only the confederacy, which has the highest members in it, has the authority to sign this contract. In addition, the scope of the collective agreement has been limited, in the context of limited legal scope, the definition of financial and social rights has been carefully avoided, and the occupational and autonomy nicknames of public officials have been carefully avoided to respond to democratic and political demands. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers say that the bill against the right to form a union for many public workers and to join existing unions should be reorganised in favour of the workers, who are our country's main producers, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0145par0325	Thank you, Mr. Dora. In connection with the second motion of the same nature, Mr. Kurt, the Eskişehir MP... Here you go, Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0146par0329	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the essence of the amendment motion for Article 1 of Bill 200, is the strike. Of course, it is not possible to have a strike when public officials have a collective contract in a legal state that recognizes international contracts as a norm above the Constitution. The lack of this means that neither the Union Act nor the collective agreement will actually apply. If democracy is to happen, it must be with all institutions and rules. There will be as many democracies as I want, and you can only use it. It's not the right logic to say that, but it's a practice in pro-democracy and pepperic democracies. Now, with the motion brought in, if we don't put the strike rights into the law and give them to our unions, it will be considered a failure, as has been done in many decisions adopted by the ECHM. Since we have already accepted international contracts as the upper norm in internal law by Article 90 of the Constitution, it is always possible to satisfy the lack of this with court decisions, and if our unions resist, if our unions fight, this collective contract of employment will be applied, and as a result of that, the strike will be a legal strike. Here, then, you have to take the lead. If we want to carry out a right law, a right law, there must be a strike within the scope of the collective contract. Because it will be revealed whether the AKP is sincere or not. Since this law is expected so far, public employees have not been given a raise in New Year's Eve. But why hasn't this law been brought to Parliament by now, accelerated in commissions? The Parliament and the AKP, which passed the law in two days at the time or in need of it, have, unfortunately, sidetracked, stalled, and failed to perform proper and proper work on the commissions, in order not to take a step closer to the employees. Because the draft submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in January of January was transferred to the Commission in 23, the first meeting took place in 26, but there was only a subcommittee meeting in March, so there was a diversion, a postponement. Now, I wish we had shown the same sensitivity to electricity, natural gas and fuel as much as we've avoided doing this raise to our officers, but I'm afraid that just yesterday, 9 per cent of electricity was given to natural gas, 19 per cent, and three days ago, a significant increase in fuel, and the government has watched public employees get poked and provoked by pepper spray. If we're going to carry out a law here in the right and appropriate international standards, please accept our motion, and I say in this law, in the title of the law, in the title of the law, let me make sure that other proposals follow, and that the public employees' rights of the collective agreement be carried out in a manner that will certainly cover the right to strike, and as a result of that, we will compete with European standards and carry out a union law in accordance with the ILO contracts. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0147par0336	Thank you. Two motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0148par0338	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0147par0339	I'm going to vote, and I'm going to call the number of decisions I have to make. I submit to you two motions of the same nature on the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... Sir, there's been a disagreement between the clerks. We'll do it by hacking into the system. Now, I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions have been rejected. Now, I submit the 1st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 2 that I will read and process the motions separately: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of the strike be added after the declaration of the 2nd Amendment in Article 2 of the Law shall be passed under the Law of the 200 Numbered Public Officials Unions. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Erol Dora Sırrı Sakık Ertugrul Kürççı Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two hundred rows of law bill in sight. We propose and propose that the right to strike be added after the declaration of the collective agreement in the article. Mehmet Günal Oktay Vural Oktay Özturk To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 2 of the Public Officials' Law on Change in the Law of Unions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kazim Kurt Bkent Kuşoğlu In the first joke of Article 2 - Article 1 of Article 1 of the Law, the authority of public officials in the 1st service department is to organise the foundations for the Unions and the common talks between them and the Public Employment Board. It has been changed in the form of the public officials' unions in each service department, and in the case of collective contract negotiations and conflict between the Public Employment Committee. Do you agree with the final motion, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0149par0367	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0147par0368	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0150par0369	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0147par0370	Mr. Hamzacebi, who will speak on the Republican People's Party motion?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0151par0371	Mr. Bulent Kuşoglu.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0147par0372	Mr. Kuşoglu, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0152par0375	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to the amendment to the Union Act on Article 2 of the Charter No. 200. Article 2 of the purpose, I want to bring this to your attention in particular. This is the name of the law that is now in effect in accordance with the Union of Public Servants Act No. 4688. Now, the 1st article of this law predicts a change in the rights and responsibilities of the public officials in each service, and says the purpose of this law is to regulate the foundations of the collective agreements that public officials have established to protect, protect, protect, and develop the common economics, social and professional rights and interests of the Union and confederates, bodies, and activities of the Unions, and the rights and confederations of the Unions, which will serve the rights and responsibilities of the civil servants in each service department, and they are bounded by the confederations of the People's Labor Board. I'd like to draw your attention to that in particular. Only the terms of the talks are being translated into the contract. Now, if there's going to be a difference between a collective meeting and a collective agreement, if there's a difference, there's going to have to be a very important change in the purpose of the law, and there's going to have to be a change in that direction. Look, there are two major changes. We bring it with the Constitution. We're saying that a lot has changed, but nothing has changed in purpose. Of course, what's the result? So there's no difference between a collective meeting and a collective agreement, just an arrangement for words. I mentioned it during my last speech. Public officials were not going to charge or receive a raise because the government officials received this clause regarding the collective contract. They will gain a democratic right because they are not given the right to strike with the Constitution. Public officials need to be more involved, more responsible. We're not giving him that either. We don't allow any arrangement to make them more responsible, make them more initiativeful. We say that even in public contract negotiations, you will not be able to go beyond the limits we draw, nor will you be able to offer anything other than the existing legislation. Other than that -- 700,000 public officials -- as far as I know, not members, but unions -- we don't include at least 600,000 public officials. There are so many civil servants, execution officers, law enforcement staff working at the National Department of Defense. We don't involve 600,000 public servants, we don't involve them in the law. If the executive confederation does not sign the collective contract, the second sign it. So we offer public officials one alternative, you walk this way, you can't get out of it. If you don't offer alternatives, if you don't give initiative, don't ask for more increases, don't take any more responsibility. If you say that, there's no point in bringing this. Are there collective agreements in Turkey in only international institutions or in some international texts? There is, there is an institution about the collective contract. We bring it to say so. For him, we specifically stated the arrangement for this in the commission. If we're doing it, we need to do it in a much better way, make it meaningful, make it meaningful. There's a very important mistake here, there's a flaw. Here we have to put government officials, public officials, to give them initiative, to give them responsibility, to develop their responsibilities, to contribute to democracy. This arrangement, as I have just read in the context of purpose, will, unfortunately, bring nothing with no difference. It'll be a tasteless, salt-free law. It's already late. For the first time, government officials didn't get their raises on time. We think we should at least make sense of it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0153par0383	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. I submit to your votes the motion of the Republican People's Party that those who don't accept... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Two hundred rows of law bill in sight. We propose and propose that the right to strike be added after the declaration of the collective agreement in the article. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0154par0390	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0153par0391	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0155par0392	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0153par0393	Mr. Vural, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0156par0394	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0153par0395	I'm reading the reason: The aim is to promote the right to Greev to public employees and to regulate the fundamentals related to it. I submit to your votes the motion of the National Movement Party that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and propose that the declaration of the strike be added after the declaration of the 2nd Amendment in Article 2 of the Law shall be passed under the Law of the 200 Numbered Public Officials Unions. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0157par0403	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0158par0404	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0153par0405	Mr. Furcier, Mersin MP, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0159par0406	Dear friends, Mr. President, I don't understand why the Commission and the government don't agree with this motion. You're making a law to expand the rights and resources of the unions, but you don't give public employees or civil servants the right to strike. Then why are you making such a change? How can this change benefit employees? Because what we call a strike is the only legal weapon the worker, the employee, the employee, the employee, the employee, the employee, the employer, the employer, the boss, the bourgeois, the state's review, the evaluation, and the price to fit the market conditions. Public employees, public officials are no different than other workers. Between a factory worker and a teacher or a technician working in a hospital or a physician or a client working in that court, there is no difference between what they've done, what they've done, what they've produced, what they've produced, what they've added to their life of social work, whether they're worth anything, whether they're making their own wages, their own social rights, their own livelihoods, discussing them, disqualifying them from their rights, there's no reason for them to have to be limited rights between what they've been saying, his servant, his slave, his two lips, and his own living conditions. This, in fact, is one of the last remnants of constitutional and legal regulations imposed on us by the September 12th regime. But what's interesting is that the state and capital, even though they want a lot of other things to happen, to change, they don't want the rights of public employees to strike because we all know that public contracts in Turkey always play a regulatory role in terms of the value of labour. Therefore, if public officials have the right to strike, raise their wages and rights to a degree, it will automatically, inevitably, reflect on all workers' rights and resources, their wages. Therefore, in Turkey, the state, which pays almost 2 million public officials, in terms of the description of these fees, wants to keep them behind in the interests of the equity owners, as a whole, that workers, workers, workers, direct workers, producers of services should come forward and gain their rights directly. There's no other explanation. When we look at the picture as a whole, that's the truth. Turkey is the only OECD country that does not give public officials the right to strike. Turkey is the only European Union candidate country that does not give public officials the right to strike. In fact, Turkey is not part of the modern world in terms of these conditions, it is a medieval country in terms of these conditions. However, we all know that under no circumstances or under any circumstances, employees, workers, workers, cannot be held as slaves forever, and that public officials who are almost most highly trained, highly trained, world conditions and are more open to interpretation of the conditions of Turkey's labour force will not be denied the right to strike for much longer. I think the shortcut is to embrace our proposal. By adding this decision to the changing clause, you add the strike definition to this law, or teachers, doctors, doctors, judges, public officials will eventually take that right apart. That's what you want, and that's what they're gonna do to you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0160par0411	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. I submit to you the motion of Mr. Furcier and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 2 to your votes after the motions that are not accepted: those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 2 is accepted. There are three motions on Article 3: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to Public Servants Unions Act No. 4688 is under way. We propose and propose that the clause A be changed in the following way. Mehmet Şandir Mustafa Kalaycı Mehmet Günal A) The public official is a member of all employees who remain out of labor status in the institutions and institutions under this law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 3rd Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy Namik Havutça Musa Pine Kazim Kurt Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Article 3-4688 of Article 3 (a), (i), (i), (j) and (k) have been replaced in the following manner, (l) bendi. A public official: All employees employed by institutions and organizations under this law, H) General collective contract: The contract signed by the Public Officers' Unions Committee, established under the framework of the principles laid out in this Law, under the joint economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and rights and interests of the public employer committee and the participation of confederation. The Service Council collective agreement: the contract signed between the Public Labor Committee and the Union Unions Committee, established by the participation of the Public Employers' Committee, provided it is agreed on as part of a collective agreement on the collective economic, social, democratic, autonomy and professional rights and interests of public officials who work in public-funded institutions and organisations within the framework of the basics stated in this Law. j) The institutional collective contract: under the basis stated in this Law, the contract signed between the Public Employer's Committee and the Union of Public Workers' Unions if it is agreed on as a result of collective talks on common economic, social, democratic, autonomy and professional rights and interests at the level of the institutional level, The meeting report: if collective agreements fail to be signed as a result of collective contract talks, there is a report on issues the parties have agreed on and cannot compromise, I) Union representative: Trade Union representative elected in office under the union regulations of trade unions Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment to the Law on Public Officials' Unions of 200 rows, in the following way. Article 3-4688 of Article 3 (a), (i), (i), (j) and (k) have been changed as follows. A public official: All employees employed by institutions and organizations under this law, H) General collective contract: The contract signed by the Public Officers' Unions Committee, established under the framework of the principles laid out in this Law, under the joint economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and rights and interests of the public employer committee and the participation of confederation. I) The institutional collective agreement: under the basis stated in this Law, the contract signed between the Public Employer's Committee and the Union of Public Workers' Unions should be agreed upon as a result of collective talks on joint economic, social, democratic, autonomy and professional rights and interests at the level of the institutional level. Meeting report: If a collective agreement cannot be signed as a result of collective contract talks, there is a report on issues the parties have agreed on and cannot compromise, (k) Union representative: Union representative selected at work under the union regulations of trade unions The strike is that public workers stop service at work, work and across the country, either by a decision between themselves or by the union in order to improve the conditions for working with financial and social rights. Pervin Buldan Secret Tilleyya Leader Fair Wolf Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion, Pervin Buldan and his friends?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0161par0450	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0160par0451	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0162par0452	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0160par0453	Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0163par0455	He's a film worker.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0164par0456	I'm a film worker, and we're going to talk about it in the next thing, because movie workers are being filled with the material under the other title. But I'd like to remind Mr. AK PARTY of a few conditions: that this amendment motion that we've made is that anyone in the workplace who's a laborer can get a collective contract... many of you are not interested in that word and that technical language. Mealen, it's something like this: It's a amendment proposal to make sure that you ban people from all things in the world except death, that they can't benefit from anything, that they're deprived of everything, at least as much as the rest of them can benefit from the collective contract. The employee's rights, the law, as well as any other. Don't bend a moustache, don't look at it, don't come down from heaven with your rights - the other has the same right. I'll tell you, let's start with this House. Don't ask for coffee in your own room, they can spit in a 4/C/C/E worker when you bring them in, they're so angry with you. Come on, let's go to the opposition club. God bless you, don't get sick, the driver of the ambulance that took you, he's from 4/C. Look, if you get sick, if you get sick, find an AK PARTY or a friend or an AK PARTY, which means an AK PARTY that forbids everything to the people, and let him lead you. There's no responsibility. Look, you don't pay, he can't take advantage of retirement, someone else negotiates his own labor -- they do the same job -- he can't do it himself. If I were a driver, I wouldn't feel responsible for taking you safely. Don't draw blood in the lab. Look, they can't run subcontractors there, so they started it as a service, security, cleanness, and the main things are subcontractorized right now. He may have a little too much to drink, God forbid. Okay? Take care of yourself. In every aspect of life -- you've raised it to 500,000 -- you'll be dealing with these 4/C. If you're going to do 4/C, do one thing, maybe they'll come to their senses, maybe they won't be so reckless with the workers, the oppressed, the Kurds. If you're gonna do it, do it. Let's go further. Look, at the courthouse, I'll tell my master, in the hospital, in many public institutions and institutions, all those who do the real work are subcontractors, and it's only naive to expect them to serve the heart and the public. So, this amendment we're offering, my friends, is that we're going to put one slave of God, one servant of God, the other one who does the same work, and the other one who does the same, even more work, and has no guarantees. What kind of conscience would you call that? Get out, for God's sake... here I am... here I am, and let the members of the group come in, and let them say, or the Minister himself is not here, and let him say, "Friend, that's why we don't deserve the 4/C." Let me come in and kiss your hand. There's no reason for that. Apart from cruelty... you say we're putting so much mail in the mail, look at the work that IMF put this country through in its time. Have mercy and faith. One of you, come and say to the General Assembly, 'This is why the general strike cannot strike.' I ask you all to come, one of you, for God's sake: 'This is the reason, this is the reason, this is the reason, this is the reason.' What's the reason for this? Nothing! There's no reason but to believe in this neoliberal wild capitalism. Let a father come and say: "Look, brother, this is the reason for this. Let us apologize with all the workers. This time, I don't pay my respects to those who will vote for it, but to the rest of them.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0165par0466	Thank you, Mr. Commander. I submit to your votes the motion of the Commander and his friends of Sırrıyya: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0164par0468	Well done! Well done! God bless you! We don't have to take the rest of the vote. What the hell? What the hell is this? Is that a thing? What's the difference? What's the difference between him and the other one? It's not right-wing, it's not left-wing, it's nothing, it's humanity, it's humanity, it's humanity!
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0165par0469	Mr. Commander, please... Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 3rd Amendment to the Law on Public Trade Unions. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. 02.04.2012 Mehmet Candy (Gaziantep) and his friends Article 3-4688 of Article 3 (a), (i), (i), (j) and (k) have been replaced in the following manner, (l) bendi. A public official: All employees employed by institutions and organizations under this law, H) General collective contract: The contract signed by the Public Officers' Unions Committee, established under the framework of the principles laid out in this Law, under the joint economic, social, democratic, political, autonomy and professional rights and rights and interests of the public employer committee and the participation of confederation. A collective agreement on the service arm: the agreement between the Public Employment Committee and the Union Unions Committee, established by the participation of the Unions, provided it is agreed in the meeting of collective economic, social, democratic, autonomy and professional rights and rights and interests of public officials, which are part of a service branch within the framework of the general budgetary institutions and organisations mentioned in this Law. j) The institutional collective contract: under the basis stated in this Law, the contract signed between the Public Employer's Committee and the Union of Public Workers' Unions if it is agreed on as a result of collective talks on common economic, social, democratic, autonomy and professional rights and interests at the level of the institutional level, The meeting report: if collective agreements fail to be signed as a result of collective contract talks, there is a report on issues the parties have agreed on and cannot compromise, I) Union representative: Trade Union representative elected in office under the union regulations of trade unions Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0166par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0165par0484	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0167par0485	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0165par0486	Mr. Aslanoglu, İstanbul MP, please.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0168par0488	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I'm going to give you a few points with the top of the line, and I'll give it to you in appreciation. Before the referendum, all officers were called "müjde" who were to be given a strike and a collective contract union. Is that right, fellas? And during the referendum, all billboards were referred to as the right to collective agreements. We want to, now, but let's make a proper law, make it a four-way law. Bring it, we'll sign first. First of all, you're too late with this law. It's your fault. It's all your fault. If this had been transferred immediately after the end of the budget in December, it would have been out by now. Sometimes, even here, they said, "I swear, there's opposition." I'm saying that the opposition -- no party -- not just the Republican People's Party -- has done everything in its power to get this bill out in the morning -- it's in the planning and budget commission. The reason for the delay: however, he passed the subcommittee, came to the commission a month and a half later; one.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0169par0490	Constitutional amendment...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0168par0491	Wait, don't talk, wait a minute. Don't talk there, if you know, come talk to me, okay? If you know, come talk to me. Two: Now, this is a rule law. It's up to one person. Mr. Secretary has just announced the number of members of the three confederations: 505,000, 394, 232,000, 26 thousand and 4,000. If the president of the Confederacy representing 505,000 people signs off, that's it, one man! If eight of the nine who went to represent that confederation say no, it's only true when the president of that confederacy signs it! It's called democracy. What kind of democracy? A man who does not protect my rights and my law -- I salute that my friend in charge of today's confederation -- is not in this character -- but when one person signs it, it's all right, the rest of it, it's nothing. Sir, of the three confederations, there are no members or... I don't know. There are no rules! When only one person signs it, it's called the democracy. We offer this kind of democracy to your appreciation. Now, there are about 1,200,000 people present. When a member of the 505,000-member Confederacy sign it -- the president -- it's all good, it's all good. How is this democracy, I offer it to your appreciation?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0170par0495	The president comes with an election, by choice...
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0168par0496	Eight of the president's representatives -- who came with that election -- are coming. When they don't sign, the president... it's not a democracy! He can come by choice, they come by choice. Another thing: 1,200,000 people are unionists. I wonder if that's how democracy works. 1,200,000 people, one union, the others have no rights and no authority. No unauthorized democracy, fellas. Then why are you calling those people there? Why are you playing those people there? Why are you playing with the dignity of those people? How can people answer to their members tomorrow if they have no right, no right, no right to speak? How will the members of KESK and other trade union account for the presidents of the public-sen? Don't get people to act, if you want them to listen, if you want them to be there, take their opinions and opinions, but don't invite people who don't have any authority. If it's called democracy, call the president of the union, who has the most members, no need to be so specific, one person sits down, and they answer.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0171par0499	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Aslanoglu and his friends' motion to vote: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to Public Servants Unions Act No. 4688 is under way. We propose and propose that the clause A be changed in the following way. Mehmet Günal (Antalia) and his friends A) The public official is a member of all employees who remain out of labor status in the institutions and institutions under this law. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0172par0507	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0171par0508	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0173par0509	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0171par0510	Mr. Günal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0174par0512	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, in this article, we have a motion for coverage. Our friends' motions have just been discussed from other parties. And in our motion, all of his employees include those who are excluded from this labor status. It's a common right, dear friends. In recent years there have also been significant developments in the field of human rights, and we as a country have signed some international contracts, and there are agreements on national law. Here, we are not supposed to discriminate between employees, but when we look in this context, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has the right to form unions or to join unions with others to defend their interests. In this case, the ILO Convention number 87 is also used in a similar way to all employees and all others, regardless of any distinction. For him, the goal of our motion here is to include all employees because there is another ruling on Article 30, including civil servants working in the Turkish Armed Forces and security and some of the mid-level executives. Here, we accept the scope of the entire concept as a human right, as part of international contracts. If we do not do so, we are in violation of contract 87, and of ILO Convention 98, which is complementary. So that's the point. We're thinking of putting together a wide-ranging, picketed, collective contract union law, if there's any shortages. We've submitted our motion in this frame. On the other hand, we've just asked Mr. Secretary, but right now we have Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, Mr. Simsek here, Mr. Çelik is gone again! I mean, I actually asked him when he was starting, you know, talking about the whole thing, and then he came in, and he said something, and he got mad, and he left... and I didn't get the answer, and I don't know if the ministers would give it to me in the power of attorney. So our friends have repeated the speech of Mr. Arinc here, and I will not repeat it again. So I'm going to do it, I'm going to sign the contract. What did he call you, brother? I asked very clearly. Minister: This is a political speech, it should not be extended. Now, I said, "Are you defending him?" And when we say, "Are you defending him?" Mr. Secretary after him, what if we said, "What if we called him Turkey?" I'm asking you now, really. Sir, he didn't give me instructions: he said. That's all the Minister said to me as an answer. He says: 'Mr. Arinc has not instructed us to do this work, make a contract with him. Now, should he give such instruction? What's it to you, brother, when a minister of the government comes out and says? Where did you come from? I don't know you. My confederation is clear, and I will sign that contract, and you will appear there. You answer to him with something more than purpose, what if it were Turkey?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0175par0520	He agrees, he agrees.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0174par0521	What if there's such a thing as a thing? Yes, at that moment I heard a reaction, not my intention, but this, these are unjust accusations. In that place, then, you are angry here. So we talked about TRT, and we said, "AK is RT." Then how will it be if you do all things well and well? Turkey has only one color: flag color, al-white, red-and-white flag color; another color never happens in any institution, in any union. It's called the yellow union, not the yellow union. It's called the yellow union. Really, I don't buy it. Perhaps Mr. Secretary is tired, so he's going sometimes, maybe his nerves are worn out, to negotiate.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0176par0523	Mr. President, please... it's not nice to talk like this about a minister who's not here.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0174par0524	Here?
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0177par0525	The Minister is working.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0174par0526	How does it work? Here's where the minister works. It's the same thing... Dear friends, we have a friend who lives there, the government. Now that you're sitting there as a government, and you're sitting there to answer questions about this law, I want him to be, but when I'm talking about the general question, I don't, I ask the question, he doesn't, I ask the question, he doesn't answer, I ask again, in chapter two, our friends can answer, they get notes, they have an undersecretary, they have bureaucrats. Oh, if any of you can answer, then you can answer, too, take your word for the next motion, all of you have the right to speak. So I'm saying that there may be a conversation that exceeds its purpose, and I have no objection to it, so instead of making it look like it's legitimate, it's as if it's not. At least that's not what I meant. It's said, it's over. I'm still asking, if any of you have attended the opening speech of Mr. Arinc, which Mr. Arinc has made, I'll take another word from him and say other things about him. Tell him to come out here so I can agree with him. Read it, I'll give you the photocopy, if you agree with it as a congressman, then you'll have to say something else. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit02spe0178par0532	Thank you, Mr. Günal. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-04-02sit03spe0178par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 88th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Law Bill 200 rows from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In fourth place, the Law Bill on the sale of Territorial Agricultural Lands in the name of Forest Villages, and of Milliyetian Movement Party Group Deputy Minister Mehmet Şantir. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will no longer be available, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (April 3rd 2012) to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
