tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Erkan Akçay, a member of the Manisa MP who asked for a statement about the problems of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, as always, when the General Assembly first opens, it literally hums. Congressmans, my dear friends, I'd really appreciate it if you'd continue your conversation outside. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0002par0018	Thank you. Mr. President, I have been promised to address some of the issues of Manisa. I salute your honorable committee. First of all, I'd like to point out that Manisa doesn't get the public investments she deserves. Manisa is the 22nd in agricultural production in Turkey when he is the 1st in agriculture; he is the 22nd in agricultural investments; he is the 29th in education investments, and he is the 32nd in health investments when he is the 13th in population. In terms of facial measurement, he is ranked number 47 in transport investments when he is in the 18th place. Manisa, who emigrated until yesterday because there was not enough public or private investments in the AKP period, could not be created. In the last year, the population of Manisa (Manisa) has decreased by 40,000 people, so the number of MPs that Manisa will produce has also fallen from 10 to 9. There are 2,458 teachers short in Manisa, and 770 classes are needed in primary and secondary schools. There are 200 academic staff deficits at Celal Bayar University. Bornova-Turgutlu-Salihli, Salihli-Gölmarmara-Akhhisar, Soma-Akhasar, Manisa-Akhasar-Balayesir and Kula-Salihli have not been completed for ten years. In ten years, 124km of the Blacksmith-Salehli road could only be done in one lane, not even a portion of the rest of the land was made public. The 400-bed Manisa County Hospital, which has been promised before each election, has still not been built and has been dragged. More than 30,000 historical artifacts are kept in warehouses and museums must be held immediately. Again, the Akhisar Cigarette Factory, which has been transported to the treasury with 1,500 acres of land, has still not been restored to the economy. 35% of the black olives are produced in Akhisar, 75% of the green olives. When the olive oil premium is paid, the Akhisar olive producers are deprived of support because the table olives are not paid to support. Only 1 percent of farmers from the Agriculture Bank have access to business loans, at most 2 per cent, which is that farmers who apply for loans during the planting period are unable to receive them on time. Because of the government's wrong agricultural policies, our Manisa farmers are having a hard time. Our 23,000 farmers owe 894 million Turkish liras to the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops, and many farmers have been processed. The price of grapes is falling during the growing years of production. When there is more, a mechanism should be created to take this excess and store it, and without seeds, raisins must be supported. Due to the delay of the 2011 grape harvest, the late explanation of prices, the export of immature grapes and low export incentives, the table price of grapes, which was $1.10 per season, has dropped to 40 cents. Tablekeepers, especially Alaşehir and Sarıgöl, were victims. As part of the GAP and DAP, 25 are given special animal support, while Manisa, number 5 in livestock, is not given this support. The villages in the majority of the villages, including the villages of Demirci, Seldi, Bridgehead, Lakemarmara, and Gördes, were not determined. The village meadows must be quickly determined and reformed. At this rate, livestock is almost over in the area. Although the AKP promised the university before each election, these promises are forgotten after the election. Purchase tobacco processing warehouses built on a area of 21,000 square metres in Seleden have been thrown out since 2009 and must be brought into the economy as soon as possible. Also in 2008, Selden was scheduled to underground power grids, but the project was cancelled when the National Movement Party won the municipality in the 2009 elections. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since the soma thermal plant's chimney gas filters are not renovated, the number of air pollution and cancer patients is four times higher than the world's standards. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, since I'm out of time, that's all I can say. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0003par0035	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0004par0039	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I have been promised to answer the speech of our Congressman Erkan Akçay. In particular, he mentioned that public investments related to Manisa have been scarce, but I'm going to brief you on the investments made by the central government until the end of last year. By the end of 2011, two billion, 842 million, 366 thousand Turkish liras were invested with about 3.2 billion TL, which is one of the leading provinces in Manisa. Look, among them, our Ministry has invested 420 million TL so far, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks, but this year we have declared a year of action in investments in Manisa. I'm going to go back there in May and re-emerge, and we're going to announce the opening dates. Look, I'd like to give you a few examples of the facilities that were completed between 2003 and 2011: We completed the Gördes Dam. Not only will the Gördes Dam give Izmir 59.5 million cubic metres of water per year, but there are now giant irrigation lines, which will also water important watering areas in our Manisa. We've completely restored the network of the alahir watering. Also, the second part of the Alahir watering has been requested, and we've renovated it. Kula Pond and watering complete. At the center, the Yuntdag Coves Pond and watered down, we're all finished. We have completed the copper pond and watering there, which is called the copper pond, which is important, indeed famous for its melons. So we opened up 4,490 acres to water. In addition, we are fighting extremities in Manisa. So far, we've completed 24 river reforms. With these facilities, we've protected 37,150 demarcation sites from total extremities. 4 districts, 4 districts, 11 neighborhoods and 3 villages are protected from floods and floods. In addition, our citizens demanded two bridges, and I even instructed the DSI, while the bridge was not our duty, we also built a bridge there, and I want to highlight that in particular. Of course, I don't want to count them because there are a lot of them. Besides, we have 22 major projects under construction, Congressman. For one thing, one of them is Gördes watering the left coast, running the larynx, completing the Jesus canal. Also, there are 17 work pens here, the 4th section of Gediz edification, 17 pens. Sarıgöl Bahayir and Karal Deresi in the south are in the flood and rusubat control facility, Çanakçı Bayallı district of Sarıgöllı district, Turgutlu district Karaçeli Creek corrections, Sunlı Dam. Look, we've laid the groundwork, we've got the opening date and time, and I'm waiting for my deputy on that date. He had a drinking water problem for Kula, which was alleged to be hard water, and now the tests are over. Kula's drinking water is now clean, like spring water, and our town of Kula is being watered. In fact, we didn't even get to open it, so, hopefully, I'm going to an opening ceremony. Alaşehir Kavıkare pond, Gördes Doğanpınar pond, forty-trees Aydıncik pond, Chimper Lake, Kula Lake with Baby, Kula Cellen Eyes Lake, Pelitalan Pond at Central, and Seledic Lakes in Ayyan. We also have Ahmetli Tea Correctional Facility of Ahmetli district, Bakırçay Basin Containment Facility, 2 jobs. We're mobilising a major protest in the Gediz Basin called the Protection Facility of Love, and we're doing nine jobs. We also have two jobs -- kula County, Kurt Creek Corrections, Soma County, Bakerçay Corrections, and a flood of rhubarb control in the Gediz basin, which we complete. And for Manisa, Congressman, we did a special study: you know, they use underground water in Manisa, but for modern irrigation systems, drops or rain, we transferred money to Special Administration. At the end of last year, we transferred $4,400,000 in funding to the Manisa Special Administration, but it's open-ended; as long as we do private management projects, we'll support it, and it'll water what we call a closed system, piped, underground water. We've got six projects going on right now, and as soon as this is all over, there's going to be a tender. The Salihli Greenkavak Dam -- this is the watering dam -- and in the province of Manisa, under the ELL-SU, projects of eight ponds in the first section. Also, there are five ponds in the second area ponds, again, two ponds in the second section. There's also a project of sunny watering, and there's a project of Gördes watering the left coast. The money's ready, and when the projects are done, we'll start construction right away. There's a lot of work going on, but I'd like to give you the good news that we're going to build 45 ponds and modern irrigation facilities, as part of the thousand ponds in a thousand days. They've been prepared. Now eight of them are in construction. If you'll excuse me, I'll give you his name so it's on the record. And the Manisas are probably listening to us. The Gördes are still building the Lake of Doğanpınar; The Lake of Plays at 40kret, Pelitalan Lake at the center; the Lake of Light, Kula Çelenkuk Lake, Kula Çelenköt, Alaşehir, Kavaködere Lake - and of course, the Ayans' Pond in Selede, and Kula. We will finish them all in the coming year. In addition, there are 15 ongoing ponds and waterings within the scope of 1,000 ponds per thousand days. The watering of the Lake of Kemaliye in Alaşehir, the watering of the Körencik pond in Alaşehir, the watering of Küçükdere pond and watering of Küçükdere ponds in Küçda Dutluca, the watering of Saraçlar ponds and watering of the Covets in Kulaşehir, the watering of the House Pond in Kula. Now he's got five more to plan, and we're getting them to do their project. These are: 1- Saruhan Security Pond and watering 2- Gördes Blackwater Pond and watering 3- Durhasan Pond and watering in Demirci 4 - 40krekta Pine Pond and watering 5- Akgedik Pond and watering at the center. There are 12 of them that continue to plan, and I can read them if you want, but I think you're probably too busy with so much work, but I want to read that our citizens listen to us because what we're reading here is a promise, a bond for us. There are 12 ponds and waterings planned: The watering of Ayvaalan pond in Demirci, the watering of Mothseli Pond in Demirci, the watering of the Hüdü pond in Demirci, the watering of the Blacksmith Guides pond, the bridge's Fighter Lake and the watering of the bridge, the watering of the Emre Pond in Kulah, the Kula Eroğlu pond and the watering of Kula. It's not my last name, it's his name. Belen Yenice pond and watering at the centre, the watering of the Baspınar pond in Salihli, the watering of the Shepherds' Pond in 40krek, the Alamup pond in Demirci, and the watering of the sea, the Horzum Alayaka pond and the watering of the sea in Alaşehir. There's five of them first examined, and I'll give you their names if you want them. So look, really, so far, we have declared 2012 to be the year of the move in Manisa, in the ponds and in the dams. We're all in this together, so if there's any more demand, it's up to us to do it. Sir, it's just that the D.I. doesn't work. Our Director General of the Forest, look here, by the end of 2011, he worked on 807,910 fields and introduced 28 million saplings to land. Hopefully, this year we'll be working on 127 thousand acres. So eventually, in Manisa, we built four urban forests, one honey forest, 18 in the forest, and I'll give you the gist of it. In addition, the ORCCE, there, we increase it 5 times this year by the end of last year -- giving 3,148 families a loan for $10,292.817. Our Department of Natural Protection and National Parks has declared two natural parks, one of which is Mesir Nature Park -- I was at the opening right next to Manisa -- and the other one is Duraryya Nature Park. And there's Spil Mountain, which is very important -- I want to make it public here -- especially for tourism. Every patient who goes to Spil Mountain comes back getting better so -- really -- Spil Mountain is a magnificent mountain, a magnificent field. We've prepared a long-term development plan here, and we've even tendered it very clearly. If there's a demand for Manisas, businessmen, tourists, we'd be extremely pleased. Our meteorological General Directorate usually builds four or five automated weather measuring stations with each one, while Manisa has 17 automated meteorological measuring stations. In what district of Manisa? At the centre, in Salihli, in Alaşehir, in Demirci, in the bridge, in Akhisar, in Akhisar, in Akhisar, in Akhisar, in Akhisar, in Soma, Gördes, Saruhanlı, Kula, Gölmarara, Manisa-Kakmak, in the Forest Hall of Forests, in Manisa central city forest, and Akhisar da Karakalani, 17 automatic meteorological measuring stations. So it's possible that a Manisalı from here -- anywhere in the world -- can go to the Internet, whether in America, Canada, Europe, Japan, or at that time to see the weather in Soma, or the weather in Alaşehir, or the weather, or the rain, or the heat of the world. Also, when I was Minister of Environment and Forestry, we gave a great deal of environmental support to the districts of Manisa. For infrastructure projects such as solid waste, wastewater, municipalities were once fully funded by the Ministry's funds for $6,363,578. I'd like to state that we've also given 8 of these cities and districts a special compacted garbage transport vehicle. Now, as for the Ministry of Health: Sir, our Ministry of Health invested in Manisa until the end of last year -- except this year. Look, have we opened three public hospitals? We've launched 40 medical facilities. Ali EZ (Mersin) ▪ We opened the service, opened the ministry (!) What about the people who are being abused? But we even told our Ministry of Health that if you want a great place to open up, we're willing to give it to you in the woods, and whatever it takes, we'll do what we can for health, Mr. Deputy. Let us work together to do whatever will be done to Manisa. Our Ministry of National Education, look, has opened 2,933 classrooms for our Manisa, and has invested 90,051,789 TL. The Department of Transport... you just mentioned the Department of Transport. Sir, reaching Manisa was an issue, but right now it's very easy to reach Manisa. Look, 274 kilometers of Manisa County...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0005par0069	How easy is it, Mr. Secretary, from Opium? Get out of the booth.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0004par0070	Sir, well, I'll be going...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0005par0071	How can it be easier than the Kütahya?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0004par0072	Now, Congressman, 274 kilometers... I've told you about Kütahya, don't make me open the book again, my dear fellow.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0005par0073	Don't say it so easily. It's not easy.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0004par0074	We are an honorary citizen and an honorary citizen because of Simav. Now don't make me open your book.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0005par0075	We'll open in a moment, we'll open in a moment.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0004par0076	Now there's 274 kilometers of divided roads. TOKI, have you ever had toki in Manisa? No, but right now, TOKI has invested 390 million TL. 3,340 dwellings are being built under those 26 TOKI projects. 90% of these are finished. Now he's talking about agriculture. Yes, agriculture is very important in Manisa, indeed, and I agree, we need to care more, but look at our Department of Agriculture, from 2003 to today, it has given us 948 million TL agricultural support, so it's really important. In addition, as far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, as much as 80 million dollars -- I'm telling you -- RANDAS villagers were paid by the end of last year, for small villages in the country, for the purpose of supplying roads, sewers and other drinking water. Also under SDUPAP -- and I'm following -- for some infrastructure work by municipalities, the SPUKAP has been earmarked for about $650 million. And in Manisa, a lot of them -- I didn't get his list right now -- but in the Gediz Action Plan -- you know, we have a plan of action, we're following it -- a special privilege was made by Gediz. I'd like to bring this to your attention. Sir, I'm simply saying that our Manisa is, of course, a very important city of princes, a province that I love very much. So, if there's something missing here, it's possible, it's a hundred percent impossible to say that everything's done, but you have to see what's done. What we've already done is collateral for what we're going to do. If there's a demand, Congressman, we'll do it together, of course, as servants of this region, whatever it takes. I salute you all with these feelings, sir, with my compliments.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0006par0081	Thank you. The second word outside the agenda belongs to İstanbul MP İhsan Özkes, who asked for the occasion of Kutlu Birth Week. Here you go, Mr. Ozkes.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0007par0085	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers for Kutlu Birth Week. Our great religion, which comes to our beloved Prophet, is the foundation of Islam, which is the unity of God. That is because worshipping a servant and forcing him to serve Him, and entering between Him and His servant, and weighing in the faith and constraining the religion -- that is indeed the greatest wrong. Faith is in the heart. Only God knows what is in the heart. It's not Muslim to talk about people's beliefs like they're breaking their hearts. And those who seek the fleeting gains of the world, and call the Muslims disbelievers, will know that they were the losers on the Day of Resurrection. Congressmans, a thousand and four hundred years ago, Muhammad could be criticized, and he could be told that his opinion could be wrong. Muhammad listened to these warnings, giving up his own decision and subjecting himself to public opinion. How can a closed understanding be explained in 2012 in a government called the Republic, called democracy, that doesn't listen to anyone, reads what they know, consults and compromises? Surely those who are distant from the truth should know that even Pharaoh, who had claimed to be a god, conferred upon one another. A government without compromise is a government, a persecution, and the people of such a country are in an open-air prison. As Mehmet Akif said, I can't applaud persecution, I can't love the oppressor. Those who are silent in the face of injustice are dumb devils. As his mother said, the people born free cannot be enslaved. Ladies and gentlemen, Muhammad was a prophet, not a king. He said to a boy who was excited, "Do not tremble, I am not king, I am the son of a woman who eats dried meat." Starving, he would tie a stone to his belly, and there would be traces of the mat on which he slept, and he would sew on his own torn dress. Today, may God reform those who do not eat of what our prophet eats, nor wear what he wears, nor sit where he sits, nor have any share in the prophet's morality, nor have the prophet's morality. Ladies and gentlemen, Muhammad, pointing to a piece of hair he bought from a state-owned camel, this feather is also property of state property. Even a feather that is overtaken is a disgrace and a fire in the Apocalypse for those who betray the property of the state. As for those who steal wealth, they do not pray for it. On the Day of Judgment, he said that God would not interfere with his servant. And it is announced to the orphans that they will fill their bellies with the Fire of Hell. Those who despise the right of a servant are not in the way of the prophet, but in the way of Satan. Members of lawmakers, there are those who are uncomfortable with other people attending Kutlu Birth Week events. This is our territory, our territory, and there are some who have expressed their anger as to where you came from. Listen, there are those who want to put up a sign, as if they had a monopoly on faith, the Prophet, and the Qur'an. And of the servants of Allah are those who guard (against evil). There are some who do not accept that our prophet is sent as a mercy to all the worlds. Those who behave like children, for fear of being taken away from them, should know that God, the Lord of all good, is the Lord of all good. Turning the Happy Birth Programs into a political rally air, trying to trap the great Islam, as universal as the universe and beyond, under the umbrellas of political parties, is reckless, reckless. Those who continue to sow the seeds of hatred, vengeance, and passion, even during the Holy Birth Week, their main theme is brotherhood, do not hold grudges, envy, or turn away. O ye servants of Allah, be ye brethren. They hearken not even to thy command: for they have ears, hearing, and having hearts, and having eyes, and seeing. Congressmans, the foundation of brotherhood is to love, to love what is created because of the Creator. It is, as the Lord Ali said, that we know either a brother in religion or a mate in creation. Counting all living things as members of God's family. In other words, it's about being inspired. Jonah Emre says: "Let us love, let us be loved, and this world belongs to no one. With these feelings, I'd like to pay my respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0008par0094	Thank you, Mr. Ozkes. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu, the Istanbul MP who asked for a statement about right of life violations. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0009par0099	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. First of all, I am congratulating Dr. Ersin Arslan, who lost his life yesterday in Antwerp. My condolences to his family and to the entire medical community, and I wish you patience. The People's Party of the Republic has a motion to investigate this issue, there's a research motion to investigate attacks on health workers, and there's even more than one research motion. The House needs to do a thorough investigation around this issue, because it's not just a question of protection, it's a problem of education, it's a problem of mentality; the House needs to work on this problem as soon as possible. Mr. President, I was going to talk about the right of life, but I wasn't in Parliament yesterday, I was in Malatya yesterday, and I read the transcripts last night, and after reading them, I found myself suspicious of speaking about the right to live, because now the Turkish Parliament and Turkey have a human rights category of Idris Naim Şahin. He's really creating a category on his own, Mr. Secretary. So when I read these transcripts yesterday, I blushed in a way that a person who was a little interested in human rights could hear, I was really embarrassed by these reports. I mean, how can you insult, ignore, say, say such things in the stand of this House, a belief, a religion, and a people like this? Here's the transcripts. I'd especially like to ask my friends from the east and southeast to take a stand on this rhetoric against the Kurds, especially the MPs from the Justice and Development Party.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0010par0104	It's not for Kurds, it's for PKK!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0009par0105	I'll read it from here, I'll read it. I'll read it again, and it'll be on the record again. Let's put it on the record again. This hate speech reflects a very dangerous mind world. This problem is not a problem to solve with a gene -- it's given three genes -- it's a mental problem. This coven should solve this mentality problem. Such a minister cannot manage domestic affairs in Turkey. A minister who humiliates his own citizens, demeaning a religion, demeaning a belief, should not be a minister in Turkey, and this Parliament should invite him to resign. (HPP and BDP in rows) Are we going to invite Mr. Secretary to resign after a call from the European Parliament? You will see the day after tomorrow, and I will address you, and the progress report will include these words, and there will be criticism from the European Parliament against this Parliament. Hate speech is the type of crime that's been accepted around the world, in all European countries, but not just us, but we don't have the definition of hate speech, not just us.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0011par0108	What phrase?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0009par0109	I'll read it, I'll read you something else now. Listen carefully. Article 216 of the Penal Code... read these transcripts. Maybe you weren't here yesterday, you're just coming in for roll call.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0011par0111	No, no.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0009par0112	Read this first, okay? Read the transcripts, and then read this article, Article 216, which clearly provokes the people's social class, race, religion, sect or region, a different percentage of them, and hatred and hostility against one another. (Who is this?) İdris Naim Şahin. That's right, the recipe is 216. If this bench does not have immunity, thousands of charges will be filed against him for insulting the Kurdish people, for humiliating the citizens of this republic, for humiliating a belief, the Yezidi and the Zarathusts, the people who have that belief. Of course, he gets the power from the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister does it from right to left. If the Prime Minister hadn't done it, maybe he wouldn't have taken it himself. But that's not enough, that's not enough 216. I believe that this Parliament will adopt a law of hate speech at this time, and in the new constitution, we will call the Idris Naim Hawks in the immunity of the bench to protect this bench, except for the word "hate of hate," so that no one like Idris Naim Şahin will insult any of the people on this stand. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0012par0115	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. I will make a promise to our 10 friends according to the 60th article. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0013par0120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We, the National Movement Party Group, condemn the attacks on health workers, particularly doctors. There's no way to accept an attack at the end of a misunderstanding, at the end of a pain, at the end of a rage, at the end of a misunderstanding, at the end of a day, to heal people, at the end of their night. Therefore, I thank you, sir, for setting up such a commission to determine the reasons, the solutions, the measures, and the commission to determine them.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0012par0122	Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0014par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, as in Ankara, weather conditions have also turned into storms in Burdur province after the extreme wind. The greenhouses in the village of Bağsaray, Burdur Çeltikçi district, have been destroyed, and the trees have fallen. Damage assessment will be made in the coming days. However, TARSIM agricultural insurance pays if 40 per cent of farmers' assets are damaged. Our citizens ask for state support in the amount of damage caused by natural disasters. Do you plan to make an arrangement on this matter as a government? Mr. Secretary, I'd appreciate it if they could find a solution to the problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0015par0128	Unfortunately, he can't answer you; you can come talk to yourself now. Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0016par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, this week's Tourism Week is a productive, lucrative tourist season for our tourists in the province of Mugla and for those who make a living from tourism in different parts of Turkey. Second: Our greenhouse producers, fruit and vegetable producers in particular are facing serious damage because of the violent lotos that are currently in our province. For various reasons, agricultural insurance can't afford most of this. We demand that the government take immediate measures on this matter be made available in advance. Third: Our Muğla province is defined as the 1st district in the application of encouragement. This is the 1st district in which to identify and encourage in all respects without any distinction regarding marble makers and agricultural producers in particular, and after that, Mudla...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0017par0136	Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0018par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent times, attacks on health care have been increasing. In this regard, Dr. Ersin Arslan was stabbed to death by his next of kin in Gaziantep. I pray to Him in the name of Allah, and to his kinsmen with patience and conciliation. I also condemn the attack on the late Dr. Ersin Arslan. Even though ignorance is the product of ignorance, recent attacks on doctors have had a great deal to do with the attitudes of the ruling authorities. The recent attacks on medical personnel have played an important role in the talks that have executed doctors' reputations in society. Comments and speeches that identify the doctor with knife money are made by the authorities themselves. There are also talks that show doctors as just people who work with money. The EC PARTY takes a position that condemns health personnel to justify the steps it takes in health care. The Ministry of Health has decided not to import nurses, doctors, or medical staff, but to consider the safety of the medical staff and...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0019par0142	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0020par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Since 19 May 2011, the Simav quakes have seriously disturbed the citizens for the past three days, but not even the government's hair is moving. A county that hasn't been hospitalized in 11 months is under grave threat right now. I urge the government's respective ministries to send a technical team there immediately to investigate the earthquake in the region and to focus on it. Also, the road to Kütahya-Gediz-Simav-Manisa, which connects the district to other provinces and its own province, must be completed immediately by putting the Simav-Bursa road into the program. Is the government expected to die in order to act? I'm calling from here one more time, and I need a team in the area to take care of the earthquake immediately. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0021par0148	Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0022par0150	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is one of the black days of Turkish medicine. My condolences to the grieving family and health workers who died yesterday in Gaziantep. I think it's also responsible for the increase in verbal and verb violence, the power that does not have the health workers and does not give the necessary support in the fight against violence. I believe it is time to see how health policy deals with physicians and patients. Clearly, there is a need to set up a commission on this issue. If you speak of one-sided rights, if you ignore the physician and the paramedics, it will be inevitable for you to face these painful events, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0023par0153	Dear Citizen...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0024par0155	Mr. President, we celebrate with national unity and unity and joy the 1.441 years of the blessed birth of our beloved Prophet Muhammad (sallah) who was sent as a mercy to the worlds. The greatest goal in celebrating Happy Birth Week is to understand and understand our great religion, Islam, and his Prophet Muhammad. I would like to ask our beloved Prophet, who was chosen and appointed as a lamp of light to guide them from the dark world in which he dwells, to bring peace, love, peace, and blessings to the Islamic world, and to all mankind. Also, as a health worker, Gaziantep Attorney Genghis Gökçek State Hospital, I offer my condolences and my condolences on Allah's mercy to Dr. Ersin Arslan, a breast surgeon who was brutally murdered by a 17-year-old patient.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0023par0157	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0025par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. We've seen recent attacks on health workers, doctors. I wish God's mercy to Dr. Ersin Arslan, who died in Gaziantep, and my condolences to his family. However, we benefit greatly from the Parliament's view of these problems stemming from the health system, and from the fact that all party groups agree on this issue, the measures taken on this issue will be discussed by setting up a research commission. Because as we were discussing this yesterday, a similar attack came to light in a news report I received from İzmir yesterday morning, with no life violations from God, but I feel that every day these attacks are happening everywhere, and I think the Assembly should take precautions on this issue. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0026par0163	Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0027par0165	Mr. President, the Change in Health Program and paid health care are taking the life of a health worker who makes a citizen unhappy. Those who suffer from health care are responsible for seeing the health worker, who directs his anger, violence, to the physician, to the health worker. Sadly, yesterday, a young physician in Antwerp, Dr. Ersin Arslan, died from the violence of such a patient. It is the government's fault that the physician should be seen as responsible for not being given equal health care, qualified, healthy, properly. The government officials who have been quoted have played an important role in this provocation by insulting health workers and making them responsible for the setbacks. Paramedics will quit tomorrow. We hope that this response will help the public to take the support of our right to live in good health and to give up the government's segregation, money, privatisation health approach. The Minister of Health should also stop listening to the warnings of health workers and organisations.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0026par0167	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0028par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. As all my friends have expressed, we all regret the loss of our dear doctor friend, but first I strongly refuse to let Mr. Health Minister describe it as violence. It's not violence, it's murder. The Minister of Health must correct his statement on this matter. And it's not just one of the Health Minister's practices, but it's a problem that the Interior Ministry, especially health workers, cannot provide job security, we're recommending that this matter be put on parliament's agenda and set up a research commission on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0029par0172	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution's 98th and TBMC Charter on the reasons for increasing unemployment in Turkey and the need for solutions. The unemployment problem continues to exist painfully in Turkey. Official unemployment rates have gained structural property for years at 10 per cent, while the impact of the crisis has increased to 14-15 per cent. The draft of "National Employment Strategy" at the Economic Co-ordination Board meeting on 8 June 2010 is considered to be a structural phenomenon of 10% of unemployment. The short-term goal is to repair the conjunctural effect -- which is 4 per cent -- determined. This is an indication of how far from the truth the statement that the crisis has passed as well as the confession of the government's failure. The government considers 2m,200,000 unemployed as a structural unemployment; it tries to prove the situation as if it were a phenomenon created by the crisis; it considers 1 million,264 thousand unemployed as a periodal phenomenon. The unemployment rate was 13.7 per cent, according to the 2010 household labour market survey, covering the March period. In 2008, there were about 2.5 million unemployed, and again, about 3.5 million, according to the latest official data. Our number of unemployed has increased 35 percent in 2 years. The number of employees in a temporary job reached 1 million and 35,000 in 2009, while 1 million and 255,000 in 2010. The increase in the number of those who are insecure and concerned about their future is 220. Only 1 out of 10 people in Turkey work in a temporary job, but 31 per cent of the unemployed are unemployed because they work in temporary jobs. The number of things like this is $1.83. The total share of the unemployed was reduced because they were laid off, but 653,000 people were still fired and couldn't find a job. Again, the percentage of layoffs in this period rose from 346 thousand to 360 thousand in the same period last year. According to TÜKİK House Workforce Survey March, the number of short jobs also appears to be increasing. According to this, 154,000 people have also been increased in the number of job ministers -- the secret unemployed -- who have worked for less than 40 hours in their actual work and have worked for the same reasons. One of the reasons unemployment data appears to be low is because of desperation, it is a shift in labor from the city to the rural area. For March 2010, employment in the country increased 610,000 people from the same period last year to 7 million 375 thousand. The number of unemployed has also increased over a year. This year, more than 124,000 unemployed during the crisis joined the chronic unemployed last year, and the proportion of chronic unemployed among the total has reached 28% to 28 per cent. In 2004, the number of people who have not used one of the search channels for various reasons for the past three months and are therefore unemployed is 2,225 thousand during March 2010. If you include 2 million,225 thousand unemployed people who are not unemployed due to the identification, you will have broadly defined unemployment rates. According to this calculation, the number of unemployed increases from 3 million 438 thousand to 5 million 663 thousand, while unemployment increases from 13.7 per cent to 20.66 per cent. In addition to large-defined unemployment data, the number of jobless and under-employees, which are unable to work full-time for various reasons, the total employment rate is 25.51 per cent. [[Adana]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The budget of the Diyarbakır City General Assembly for 2011 is $68m. When the budget was offered to become governor 11 times, the response was rejected in 11 of them. This has caused problems in the Diyarbakır City General Assembly's service to the people of Diyarbakır. The governor's office has rejected the budget every time because the town council reduces the private budget of $1.8m, which the governor's office plans to transfer to its account, and transfers that difference to the budget's investment pen. This has long caused the people of Diyarbakir to be unable to receive services. If there is a study of this situation, we would like to ask that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, the 98th, and TBMI Interior, in order to determine legal difficulties and open the service path. The governor's office has rejected the budgets provided by Diyarbakır City General Assembly 11 times. So much rejection has never been seen in history. The main reason the government rejected the budget is that spending on its own office is a small amount in the municipal general Assembly budget. This budget totals 68 million dollars. From the 68 million-dollar budget, the governor has demanded a share of $1,800,000 for his own chief of staff's Representation Expenses, while 1,800,000 for the investment services offered by the 1800 settlements. This clearly presents the governor's office's perspective on service and management. In addition, another example of the governorship's understanding of governance is the desire to limit the budgets of women's rights, equality of men's and human rights commissions within the city's general assembly. In the previous governor's office, Çorum, the governor's opinion is that the budgets are not constrained by both name and number and rejection. However, in the process of drafting the budget, while working with the state's private administration general secretary, national educational officials, the heads of the state's private administration, and the executive heads of the relevant institutions, with the support of AKP's members and the joint agreement with the AKP members, the governor's agreement was given the final form of the budget, but the law 5302 was arbitrary. 11 on the basis of the article. He has been extradited to parliament for renegotiation once again. The main reason the process has come to this point is the 15th law of 5302. It's the canceled joke of the clause. The decision taken earlier by the city general Assembly is 15. According to the clause, the governor could only be extradited to parliament once again. The governor had to approve the decision when the council insisted on it for the second time. But he had the authority to bring it to trial. In 2008, the governor's extradition of parliamentary decisions was clear after the Supreme Court's gag about bringing him to trial was cancelled. The budget is drafted by the general parliaments of the province and approved by the governorate's authorities in 2005. But in the case of Diyarbakir, it's an opposite practice. While a 20% legal share of education in many of Turkey's provinces has been projected and named by the Parliament, the governor claims that the allowance left by the Diyarbakır City General Assembly should be transferred to the national educational co-operation account. However, according to Articles 76 and 79 of the Law on National Education 222, the situation is clear. Finally, the budget bill from the governorate was invested at 28%, including the National Education, while the city's general assembly drew its work and overpriced spending to a proper level, raising its investment share to about 50%. [[In the 2010 budget, the investment share was 56%, which was appreciated by the Court's inspectors. And it is recommended to continue by increasing.]] In order to address all these problems, Parliamentary Research must be opened and the people of Diyarbakır will receive services. The minimum form of governorate expenditures and investments must be opened up. Besides that, it's 15. Instead of the canceled joke of matter, a new regulation should also be examined, preventing this uncertainty. It is also a situation in which the councilman's structure has six appointed and five elected members, which should be examined by the suffering of democracy and civilisation. It is urgent that the people of Diyarbakir have long been unable to receive services and that the governor's office uses legal space. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose a parliamentary investigation into how and where taxes are being spent, known in public as "Depress Taxes," which were violated by Law 4481 and then renewed by various laws, which were then replaced by earthquakes. With all due respect. On August 17, 1999 and November 12, 1999, after earthquakes in the Marmara region and around it, the Law No. 26,11,999 and 4481 were issued to address the economic losses caused by the earthquake. Under this law, additional income tax, supplemental property tax, additional DMV tax, special communication tax and special transaction tax. Special Transaction Tax was applied until 2004, and Special Communication Tax became permanent. Between 1999 and 2004 alone, the sum of these taxes is more than $20 billion. These special taxes for the earthquake are collected from the people and are written in the state's income. However, hesitations have arisen in the sense that these revenues, which are special to the earthquake, have been used over time to cover the budget deficits in an unintended way. However, following the Van Earthquake on 23 October 2011, the Prime Minister's Office issued a statement on October 25, 2011, in 28095, and a relief campaign was launched for the immediate recovery of the injuries of our citizens who were damaged in the earthquake. Meanwhile, the voluntary assistance of our citizens continues. It is important to establish a Parliamentary Research Commission to determine the amount of taxes collected since 1999 to cover the injuries caused by earthquakes, how and for what purposes they are being used, whether they are being used without purpose, and whether they are being properly used in this way is being audited by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, preventing use of the purpose. That's why we feel it necessary to open a congressional investigation. With all due respect. [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Çanakkale]] 7) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 16) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Artvin]] 19) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: 18.04.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Wednesday 18,04,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 13 April 2012, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan and his friends (908 rows) suggested that the parliamentary inquiry motion given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the problems facing the local media was taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, read in presentations Wednesday (April 18,04,2012) and held in the same date of talks. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Party Group's proposal, Mersin MP Mr. Ertugrul Kürkcu, Aydın MP Brünt Tezcan; in favour of Eskişehir MP Mr. Salih Kocaş, İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. The first statement, in favour of the group's proposal by the Peace and Democracy Party, belongs to Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkçı. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0030par0364	Mr. President, dear friends, this motion, in essence, should be seen as part of a process of democracy in Turkey, because there is an organic link between local media and democracy. When we carefully evaluate the lack of democracy in Turkey, it should be seen, in fact, that centrifugal governance, the way of centrifugal domination inevitably leads to the creation of centrifugal media and that local media can work as a copy of this central media, as a prototype. In fact, the birth of journalism in Turkey also emerged largely as a state practice. In fact, the first newspaper published in Turkey is the Official Gazette, and most of the newspapers founded during the republic in Turkey have been largely busy either introducing the national struggle or presenting the policies of the central government. However, after nearly a hundred years, the local media now can become increasingly involved in the function of a democracy dynamic in Turkey, while the central media and public media play a very challenging role, while some have consequences. But we need to see that local media has an opportunity. Local media, both radios and newspapers and televisions... because Turkey has over 5,000 rpm local broadcasts, over a thousand local radios and televisions, and around 200 national and regional televisions. The most important features of these local publications are that they are less dependent on central financial institutions than on central media; their publication does not require much cost; it may be possible for them to reach sufficient resources to sustain themselves. So when the bank goes into crisis, when it breaks down between the bank and the government, we can say that the local media are relatively immune from the defects, as we have seen on February 28th and since then, that its owners are going to end up in prison, that the journalists who work there are out of work, and that they actually have a weapon in the hands of major financial institutions. Local media, eventually, owes business people in the region, small-scale capital, one way or another, but they also have a lot of advertising, so in general, they have a lot more relative independence to make themselves independent in this regard. However, local media need considerable public support in maintaining itself and making itself competitive with the central media in its territory, becoming a focus of attention, restoring itself, enriching its content, pluralizing its content. The local media, unfortunately, is viewed as a tradehouse by the legislation in Turkey, and they are dealing with all kinds of tax and sari financial obligations imposed on all trade shops, while they face very large constraints to employ as many yellow press card journalists as they need to be counted by the press media today, because the yellow press card journalist is actually a large amount of art in the media today. There are no yellow press-card journalists in Turkey today, except for senior journalists, who started journalism in the 1960s, in the 70s, since the contract of employment was generally made not through Law 212, but as general business contracts. For all these reasons, local media can compete with the central media, survive both a democratic need, a need for democracy, and on the other hand, it needs to be supported by public space. Now, of course, the question can be asked: If he is to receive support from the public field, how is a broadcast organ going to be independent? Of course, the answer to that question is obvious. In terms of distribution of these public funds, it is essential that a committee of local media occupational organisations play a decisive role, or if it goes the way it does today, all the inequalities that have arisen in the press ad agency's resource distribution process may also arise under this condition. Therefore, considering the opportunities for democracy contained by local media, it should also be of interest to the Council to ensure that our Parliament, the local media, develop and strengthen, improve quality, expand the freedom zones, increase the field of expression, each one of our citizens is not only a consumer of the media, but also an interactive relationship with the local media, which has the ability to determine its contents. But is the House aware of these problems? Apart from the attention of the Editor-in-Chief of the Press-Publics -- which is usually the licensing, statistics or the distribution of the Press Ads -- Turkey is in a positive relationship with local media -- development of the public, improving the quality of journalists to work, improving the quality of communication faculty graduates to work in local media -- it is clear that public interest is needed, but none of that is available. In fact, the party, which I think is most likely to know the meaning and value of this situation, is the Justice and Development Party because during the nomination of Recep Tayyip Erdogan as mayor of İstanbul, the central media recognized and supported everyone but Erdoğan, while only the local publications realized that Erdoğan could be mayor of the municipality and had a relationship with him. Now, of course, once we've had the blessings of this, to settle in the heart of the central media, to control it, to turn all the media into some kind of switchblade monkey, with it, in fact, the distance from the center of this media, with how much neglect in the capacity of local democracy, how much forgetfulness has been made. Whether the government should be interested or not, I think it would be possible for the local media to feed on local media, local newspapers, radio and televisions, to take measures that would allow the public to be heard through their own voice in Turkey... not only that, but that public media should be widely exposed to local contributions, as well as that local media may be able to feed on the resources of local media, so that local media may have the voice and the voice of citizens in Turkey. In fact, I've heard from a local radio director of the Army while conducting a local media project, perhaps the best example of the capacity the local media has from everyday life to politics. A citizen lost his cow in the market, and I came to the nearest radio station, and I lost my cow, and his color was this, and his horn was like this, and his tail was like this. Fifteen minutes after he said, he was able to find his cow. So, dear friends, losing your cow can be compensated, but losing freedom cannot be compensated. So, I want you to support our proposal to voice our freedom, to express it, to have open spaces for this, to support and strengthen local media. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0031par0375	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. The first word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal belongs to Eskişehir MP Salih Koca. Here you go, Mr. Husband.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0032par0379	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, at the beginning of my words, I am celebrating the Happy Birthday Week of our great nation. In addition, storm incidents in our country, especially in Istanbul, Eskişehir, Iconya, are now under way. I hereby convey my condolences to our damaged citizens and wish them the slightest closure of this damage. I have made a pledge on behalf of myself against the BDP's motion to investigate the problems of the local media. No one can deny the importance of our press in strengthening democracy, the principle of transparency. In this scope, the task that media and media have taken on in the health of public information should be encouraged to make it more sustainable. We, the EC PARTY, refer to our local press as important to the local public. In Turkey, as we all know, great improvements are being made in all areas from economy to health, education to transportation. Of course, that's how the media and our local press are being renewed. He continues to gain the appreciation of our people, who embrace modern broadcasting, who are ethically, objectively broadcasting. The problems of our local press are said to be financial problems. As a result of amendments to the law during our administration, local media efforts have been made to strengthen the material media and the work of local media has been facilitated in this sense. Again, as Law 6112 is being organised, the problems of local and regional radio and televisions have been taken into account, reducing the upper council shares of 5 per cent of advertising revenues to 3 per cent, and these opportunities for our local media have been increased in this way. Again, with a change in the Press Card Charter, it was allowed to buy press cards for our fellow elementary school graduates, one time only, and in that sense, a certain victimism was eliminated. In addition, the number of members of Anadolu journalists who will join the Press Advertisement Agency has been increased in this sense by increasing the representation of our local press, from 1. In order for the voice of our local media to be broadcast to the world, I think the Voice of Anadolu, published on TRT Anadolu channel, is also an indication of the importance our government has given to local media. He cares that our local press is getting stronger and that these efforts by our government will continue to grow, and I respectfully salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0033par0390	Thank you, Mr. Husband. In favour of the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal, the final statement belongs to Mr. Bulent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0034par0394	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the parliamentary inquiry motion given by the Party of Peace and Democracy to investigate the problems of local media, to investigate, to investigate solution proposals. Dear friends, almost many of us have done politics in our area, one way or another, before we come here to the ranks of Parliament. We worked in county organizations, we worked in municipal organisations, we served in certain parts of politics. I'd like to go back to those days and see where we learn politics, where we learn how to build relations with the press. When we look at this frame, I'm sure you'll all see that we can say a lot of things about local media, we can say a lot of things about local media, we can say a lot of things based on research, but when we look back on our own personal political history, we'll all see that the local press is an internship for politicians. That's where we interned, where we interned in politics, where we learned how to make a press release, where we learned how to hold a press conference. They were press heroes, local press workers, local newspapers, when they didn't have the names to bring our voices to the Turkish press. Now, when this parliamentary inquiry motion came to our attention, I thought about it first, and I thought about it. Yes, local media is a local element of democracy, one of the most important elements in the local sense. Despite all its difficulties, it's a very important element, despite all its difficulties, in the process of contributing democracy, both to local democracy and to general democracy in that region, but above all, for us, it has a very special significance to politicians. Local media is the school of local politics, friends; it's the school of politics, we learned a lot there. For him, even if it's not for nothing, we owe it to the local press for that reason, dear fellow lawmakers. Now, when you look back at a lot of famous, big, well-known journalists, you see that an important part of it has local press experience. While local media is, in a sense, an element of local democracy, a key expression of the control mechanisms there, it is also a school that raises staff to the media. In general media, journalists who are in general media are the first to study, know ink, know paper, read writing, language, style, development, and are still one of the major news sources of the general press today. Notice, very important, very serious allegations, in fact, in the local press at first, you see them in the corners of those tiny, forced-out newspapers, and after a while, the seed that was planted there falls on the agenda of the media as an important news story in Turkey. Dear friends, we all owe it to us to take care of the problems of the local press that are so serious under these challenges. Look, I just got a call from a local journalist friend of mine who had no interest in having this conversation by chance. My reporter friend called to ask me something. A panel was built there, and the speaker who attended the panel made a statement on whether the MPs had read many books; he called and asked. So while we're here in Parliament, our local journalist friend there remains the bridge between Ankara (Khan) and Aydın concerning local politics. He's getting statements from us. I'm sure the other congressman called our friends and got a statement from them. Dear friends, at this point, these heroes of the local press are in serious trouble. Look, let's go back to the local papers and check it out. In local newspapers, local media, in fact, the relationship between the boss and the worker has been intertwined. It's not much of a distinction within the framework of workers who work for such large-scale newspaper owners; it's both the boss and the worker. We know a lot of journalists who have difficulty paying their tax debt, who have difficulty paying their paper money, who have difficulty paying their printing costs, who are having serious difficulties in hiring staff. When election times are near, they smile a little bit, they smile a little bit at the holidays, they smile a little bit at Christmas, but other than that, our friends are facing even serious challenges in their daily living and maintenance. The employees' wages are low, the employees' income is low, and they try to get those newspapers to the next day each day by showing solidarity with the employee, which may not be seen in any industry or in any other sector. Dear friends, it's one of the most common sectors to employ uninsured workers, unsecured workers, local media. Executive surveillance is one of the most distressed businessmen under the threat of foreclosure, local press employees and employees. Dear friends, economic problems are at the top of the very important problems of local media, but of course it's not limited to economic problems, but the problems of local media workers, serious technical problems. It is especially difficult for local media to survive in the press sector, where technology is rapidly developing, hearing, spreading news, and competition is happening very quickly, very intensively in the process, with the limited budget resources of local media in the media sector, where communication technologies are developing very quickly. The most important resource that sustains them is public ads, public resources, ads and advertising revenues that guarantee their income. If you create a distribution mechanism based on direct political debates based on the proximity distance axis, the local press will no longer be able to breathe. Dear friends, when you look at the size of business, local media organs are largely either the size of a business or within the scope of the COBI. In this framework, it is imperative that local media be especially encouraged and supported both economically and technologically. This -- I'm going back to what I said in the first place -- it's a necessity for democracy to develop, it's an obligation to strengthen the local foot of what we call the fourth force in the local sense, but above all, we are obliged to do so because of our debt to local media in the area of our first internship in local politics. Therefore, we support the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate the problems of local media. I'm giving you an opinion. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0035par0408	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. The final word against the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0036par0412	My dear President, I have been promised to advise against the BDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, I'd like to point out that local media have problems, but they're not just financial problems, they're not problems that can be solved with financial support. Many of these problems stem from local media inflation. Every profession has a vocational organisation, as it does in the press sector, but there are no such conditions in the press, when a person is required to register in a vocational room or a vocational institution to do that occupational work, such as taking any documents, such as an expert document. Printing newspapers has become extremely easy with legal changes and the possibilities of technology. Although this seems to be a happy occasion, it has actually brought many problems with it. Anyone who's clueless, incompetent, undereducated, uneducated, but anyone with no exception, can take a camera and do it if they want to. That's why I'm underlining the number of local journalists -- there's been an unqualified increase, and I'm sorry to say that the number of qualified journalists has declined. We're looking at an area where two or three newspapers can only afford to support themselves financially, where there's a local newspaper about 20 to 30. So this is somehow inadequate, and it brings in a lot of professional problems. And there's technology, there's Internet journalism now. Look, I'm listening to a news site this morning, and it's quoting newspaper stories on TV. As it turns out, there's also a concept called "patitarian journalism." In his own language, a national broadcaster transmits images from one of our provinces. And that's what the reporter who does it, the reporter who tells it, gives it this way. So on the one hand, Internet journalism is a new concept of citizen journalism, and on the other hand -- I've just expressed it -- educated or uneducated -- a local press increase that suddenly reached very serious numbers. The situation has come to the same point where it's on private radios, which is, if you remember, hundreds of radios were suddenly on the air, and as of this broadcast, frequency disturbances were also present. So when we look at the tags of many local newspapers, we see that there are also relatives, such as privileged, editor-in-chief, news manager. With legal changes to be made, the number of such things can be increased, such as hiring a certain number of employees in local newspapers, having to have computers and devices related to newspaper printing, a degree in communication school or a requirement for vocational education, a number of insured employees. In essence, I find it necessary to express that the legal status should be restored, all those things that I'm saying, but of course, there should be financial support, but there are studies about it. Looking back, we also see that many legal arrangements have been made during the 22nd and 23rd centuries, and steps have been taken to provide material resources. For example, with the amendment to Law No. 4734 with Law 4964, it is intended to contribute financially to the local press, to strengthen it, with a change in the Law on Contraction. Again, there are some articles that have made local and regional broadcasts on private radios and private televisions, which have been taken into account as Law 6112 is being organised, one of which has to do with reducing the 5 per cent of advertising revenue to 3 per cent, which means that it aims to provide support for regional broadcast organs. Again, we also see that the Office of Press and Information has made a serious contribution to local media in its budget, in its annual budget. This is about vocational studies, photography, teaching news techniques, training seminars. Another, in order to provide news for newspapers in Anatolia, is the Voice of Anatolia, again broadcasts about TRT Anatolia, as well as making its own voices to all Turkey, as well as the Articles on how to regulate and correct the victims of local media members in the Press Card Administration. So the Office of Press and Information also has regulations for local media and regional broadcast organs. Dear friends, after I express these feelings and thoughts, I respectfully salute the Grand Assembly, as I voice my word against the BDP group proposal, as I draw attention to today's agenda, the intensity of the General Assembly's agenda, the talks on the completion of the 2/B Bill of Law last week.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0037par0422	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. The Peace and Democracy Group has proposed...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0038par0426	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit01spe0037par0427	Request roll call. Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Orhan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Acar, Mr. Topal, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Tayan, Mr. İkturk, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Silver, Mr. Havutça. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0037par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The roll call before the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal was voted was not enough. Now we're going to re-check with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. 18.04.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 18,04.2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. By Adana MP Osman Faruk Logoglu and his friends, on 17.04.2012, the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was given the General Assembly forum for Discussions on "The Complications in Syria" (4 rows). lu) It has been proposed to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the General Assembly's information, and to be read in the presentations and held in the same dated combination of its talks on Wednesday (April 18,04,2012). In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, the first statement belongs to Adana MP Faruk Logoglu. Here you go, Mr. Logoglu.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0039par0026	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding our request for a general meeting with Syria. I salute you all. The Syrian problem is today...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0040par0028	Mr. President, we're talking about something very important, but friends have nothing to do with it. Please warn me. Including the ministers.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0041par0029	Yes, you've heard Mr. Tünce, Mr. Lawmakers. And then when I warn you, you tell me I need to be seen with an ear and a nose and a throat. I couldn't make any of you happy in this House. Mr. Logoglu, please come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0042par0031	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0043par0032	Set the timer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0041par0033	Thirty seconds have passed, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0042par0034	The Syrian issue is an important issue that is on the top of our country's agenda today. It is a growing issue that directly affects our national security, our economic and commercial interests, our social life, and its negative effects. But the real and greatest danger that lies ahead is the danger of war with the neighbouring country. This danger must be eliminated. Turkish people are against war. The Turkish people want to bring peace and stability, not to fight the Syrian people. This is why, in the face of this vital matter, our great House must declare its stand in the name of our people. The true purpose of our request for a general meeting is not to criticize the government's wrong and incomplete Syrian policy at this point. We've done these reviews, and we'll continue to criticize them. But our goal here is to ensure Turkey's well-being, to remove our country and our people from a line of conflict that can only result in disaster, to keep them on the path to peace. It's time to show that our High Council has taken care of our national security and interests. In this direction, we have prepared a joint declaration proposal for all political parties represented as Republican People's Party in our grand parliament and have delivered it to the groups under the instructions of our Speaker of Parliament. Now, first, I'm going to read this joint declaration proposal, and then I'm going to briefly share it with you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is monitoring developments in Syria with attention and growing anxiety. Turkey is on the side of the people of Syria, believing that Arab people have longing, demand and rights, democracy, rule of law, human rights, freedoms, equal opportunity and honorable life as universal values. The principle of Syria, independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and the protection of the national union is essential to the peaceful and stable lives of the Syrian people, and the international community must act on that basis. Thus, ending violence should be the primary goal of launching a political process between government and opposition, aimed at normalisation in the country, and helping people in need. Yurtta sulh, peace in jihanda./ Grand National Assembly of Turkey; 1) He is opposed to outside intervention in Syria because it will lead to a new war in our region. Such an initiative will not bring peace to Syria, rather, it will deepen and prolong conflicts and cause more casualties. The war will bring disaster to Turkey and the region. 2) He sees the United Nations Security Council as the sole source of legitimacy for any steps taken by the international community regarding Syria. In order to form no-fly zones, buffer zones and human corridors, the Security Council is also required. The function of other formations should be limited to contributing to a joint will in the United Nations Security Council. 3) In this context, he welcomed the Security Council's unanimous decision on 14 April 2012. This resolution, which supports the peace plan of the United Nations Secretary General and the Syrian League Special Representative Kofi Annan (Arab League), envisions sending military observers to Syria to oversee the ceasefire. Some of them have arrived in Syria. The decision calls on both sides to stop all violence in the country and condemns human rights violations by Syrian authorities and armed opposition groups. 4) Kofi hopes to support Annan's initiative and wants the plan to be carried out with all its elements. 5) He believes that every attempt to achieve peace and stability in Syria falls as much responsibility for opposition to government as it does for peace and stability. Violence is not the answer. At the end of the day, we will need dialogue, negotiations and compromise again. 6) It reminds the world that the way out of the deep crisis of Syria must be determined by the free will of the Syrian people and that the right and authority of the Syrian people must decide on the future of the government and on the country. The outside pressures will be interfering with Syrian internal affairs and will undermine the right and will of the Syrian people to determine their own future. 7) Using Turkey's weight as a brother and neighbour with close and dense ties to Syria, the Russian Federation and Iran (Israeli), which have separate influence over its neighbours and especially the country, considers it useful and necessary to activate the other forces in line with the goals of peace and stability. Syria is not just Turkey's issue, nor is Turkey an issue that Turkey alone can solve. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey invites countries of the region and the entire world to take steps to stand by the legitimate expectations of the Syrian people and to meet their demands of freedom, good governance, honorable life, equality and justice, to promote peace and reconciliation. At the same time, the Syrian government and opposition elements are primarily calling off violence and calling on their country to share its destiny. Syria's stability and peace of mind is essential for Turkey's national security, peace and stability in the region. Turkey's Grand National Assembly will continue to monitor the issue of Syria closely and bring up its constructive contributions to the issue. This is the end of our proposal. Now, in short, why did we propose this joint declaration? Congressmans, our joint declaration proposal was written to record the Turkish Grand National Assembly's position on Syria. It shows that the Supreme Assembly is in charge of this vital matter and that it should be what it wants to be. The declaration is expanding the government's maneuvering field, giving the government the possibility of removing any pressure to intervene in the neighbouring country, such pressure is on the government. Moreover, we feel that our proposal does not contain an element that even under the government's current policy should oppose it. With this dignity, it is in the interest of our country's high interests that the High Assembly, through this joint declaration, relieve our people's anxiety and give a clear message to the world's public. If that's not possible, we consider it our duty and obligation to our people to accept a statement as a result of that meeting by accepting our request for a general meeting. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0044par0051	Thank you, Mr. Logoglu. The first word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Levent Tüzzel. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0045par0054	Thank you. Mr. President, we're taking a formal word against the fate of being an independent representative, a proposal that we actually support, but of course, the imperialist plans to Syria, the preparations for intervention, the role of Turkey, and, of course, the parliamentary will, the public will, and the discussion of this matter around here, there must be a general discussion. Syria has been spoken for over a year. It's a fact that we all know that people's movements from North Africa have come from this part of Syria to seek freedom and democracy. However, a Turkish government that pursues imperialist forces that want to settle in the region, the policies of the AKP government here, very much contrary to the interests of our people, our country, and we see this inverse every day. The government, which does not even consent to the Annan Plan, has stumbled on foreign policy and has remained alone, but despite all of this, it has not adopted the current regime because of its claims, and I think it is a great excuse for Mr. Prime Minister to call on NATO to take part on his last trip to China. The other day, I had a meeting with the people in Hatay, and when we share their observations, they are actually very concerned about the future of their relatives there, their friends, their relationship. It's clear that there's been some manipulation. There are serious concerns and doubts that a psychological action was created and the facts were not reflected towards us. The recent interview by journalist Tayfun Talipoglu in the refugee camp has given us very striking information, which is that a large majority of people who have come there are not actually avoiding conflicts, but are being told that they have been lured into that area by the promise of the state of Turkey to offer them a job, citizenship, a better living space, in a way. More serious is that, again -- a story from the British Times the previous day -- a quote from the British Times newspaper -- on the border of Turkey, on this side of the Rebel River, within the Redeem tents, the government of Turkey, in this way, with groups named after the Free Syrian Army, whose support for the people is not clear and whose intentions for confusion and intervention will not be seen in an international form of politics, and will not be affected by their decision to go and fire on border outposts in Syria, and the state of Turkey, in this way, the government, in order to support the government, in order to support the Syrian opposition, in order to ensure that its public support such a dangerous, empirical diplomat, but it will not be associated with an international form of law. For what? To be the state of the district, to be the great state. We won't be boutique state anymore, our reputation, our reputation everywhere. Mr. Prime Minister, when he sees these images in Syria, he has a sense of humanity and a sense of conscience, but there's no need to go there to find these images, the images within Turkey's borders, such as a massacre in the village of Roboski, which happened two days before the new year, still illuminated, still explained, still given an answer to the government's name, not in the government's name. So, they're not credible. It's not right to hide, hide things from the people of Turkey. Interfering with Syria, the future of the Syrian peoples who live there, interfering with their right to determine their destiny, their right to govern themselves, is not acceptable. What's dangerous, of course, is that the Kurdish people in the region have gained new status there -- new status, constitutional citizenship, so on -- Turkey's view of it as its own issue, as a threat to itself, these are very wrong policies, they must be abandoned, and, of course, our Parliament wants to see and understand what the government wants to do, in a very good way. I'd like to talk to you about something else after I've brought it up. The landscapes we have here yesterday are a reflection of a mindset, a government policy, in fact, through the Home Secretary to us, to the public, to the Regents. Now, what was spoken of yesterday? The turmoil of the Nevroz (Nevroz) celebrations, and the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior here, on the other hand, is that the march of trade unions who want to perform in Ankara is not allowed to be heard by the education law, the union law, and, well, there are familiar images: gas bombs, clubs, bars, detentions, arrests. He says we're not responsible for all of this. It's clear that the people who are causing these landscapes are the ones who have the motion for the geneorization, the people who are in the thought. It's clear that the MPs have been targeted. Now, the meeting, the right to demonstration march, has constitutional rights, legal regulations, but according to the right of this demonstration, the AKP Government and Minister's apocalypse -- if there is an AKP criticism, if there is an announcement against AKP buildings -- it is certainly not accepted and it is forbidden and it will be invaded by public workers, workers' unions, without any shame or boredom. This decision is being made. On the other hand, from the point of view of those landscapes -- so trees were burned, buses were burned, here are -- the reason for all these landscapes is that the Home Secretary, in fact, used a legal right, a right to a holiday, misused his powers, by using a general order, to provoke the people to governors. I was in Kazlışme, no one was forced to go there, under pressure, as the Minister claimed, dressed in their national clothes, went there to share their wishes, feelings, absolutely no such image, but there was something that we saw, and there was something in the press that was shooting at people from police vehicles. Therefore, the minister himself was responsible for these unwanted landscapes, for all these paintings, for making this restraining order. Now, after all this, the Minister can still say the gas bomb is harmless. On that day, however, Hajji Rich, like 10 other citizens, suffered a heart attack and died from a similar gas bomb. Thus, as in his death, it is the government that has created this environment in the death of a police officer that shows this irresponsibility. Now, it's a huge mistake for Mr. Minister to present the public gatherings, the public gatherings they've held, as a provocative group of people. So the Minister wants the MPs here to speak in their own way and have the right to do politics as much as they want to, which is unacceptable. Yesterday, unfortunately, again, we saw you making the kind of speech that was spoken at the teacher killing rally, which, in fact, is the head of the police. To do politics with that head, to rule the state... here is the view we've seen, the public's feelings, the faith, the culture, the worship, whatever value it considers sacred. Dear lawmakers, let's decide whether this country is secular or not. I believed this country was a secular country, or so we've been told, but here, Mr. Secretary, who has faith, who has no faith, who has the right to question them from which religion, and who has the right to insult them, it's unacceptable. What's that when it's done? What you think is extremely valuable is Happy Birthday Week. What's his main theme? It's a brotherhood. Is this the way to uphold the brotherhood law, to protect the rights of citizens, to uphold the law? That's not acceptable. So, Mr. Minister, you're responsible for all this -- today's BDP MPs, pointing to their politicians -- unless there's money in the pocket of the Kurdish, crops in the field, livestock in the plateau, factories in the city. It's really hard to believe. The reason all of this doesn't happen is to go out with a gun, with a gun, with a fight, with a gun, against the Kurd who calls it freedom, who says it's the right to political action. This policy is behind all these losses. Thus, it is not possible to satisfy them with incentives that will be given there today, and it is not possible to fulfill them. We should all question why this painting is happening. Such a mindset, such a sense of politics... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0046par0071	But we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Corporate, really.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0045par0072	Actually, you can, the other vice president can.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0046par0073	But I can't.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0045par0074	The last words of my word...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0046par0075	I get it, but...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0045par0076	Let me finish.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0046par0077	Thank you very much. I mean, we don't have that kind of system.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0045par0078	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0046par0079	Thank you, thank you. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Sinan Oğan, the Iğdır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0047par0083	Thank you. Mr. President, on behalf of our National Movement Party Group, I stand before you to present our views on Syria. Before that, I'd like to make a point, if I may. Our police were lifted up into the mountains, our governor was lifted up into the mountains, our teacher was lifted up into the mountains, the government was silent. Unfortunately, our doctors are being killed in the hospital these days. We expect the government to take care of this as soon as possible, as Congress and as the National Movement Party Group. Dear MPs, what is Turkey's most important agenda today? When you look at Mr. Prime Minister's speech, when you look at Mr. President's speech, when you look at Mr. Foreign Minister's speech, Turkey's most important agenda is Syria. The number one item of the regional agenda is Syria. Well, in that case, I'm sure you'll object to the discussion of Syria in the Supreme Assembly in the next vote. If Mr. Prime Minister cares so much about Syria, if Mr. Foreign Minister cares so much about Syria, if he's so important, and our President is making speeches about it abroad and abroad, why shouldn't this be discussed in Parliament? Why should the AKP ranks be so empty when this is being discussed in Parliament? If we're going to decide by looking at you, that means that Syria is not an important agenda. If Syria isn't an important agenda, why are we on the brink of war with Syria? This is an important agenda for America. It's an important agenda for global forces, but when I look at you like this, I see that this is not an important agenda for Turkey. Because, in a moment, you'll decide not to bring it up. As you reject any decision from the opposition, you will reject it. If the opposition brings up the good, brings up the bad, you automatically deny it. At least you make a motion on Syria, we'll support it, we'll discuss Syria here in Parliament. If this is the House of the People, if the people have chosen us here or chosen you here, if they want us to discuss the issues of the country's direct interest in the security of the country, we have to deal with it here by the High Assembly, we have to discuss it. No, if we just left our will between the Prime Minister's two lips, if you say -- which shows him -- then there's nothing we can do for you, I'm afraid. The Syrian issue is a matter of the Great Middle East Project, dear friends. I don't suppose there's any need to go into the details of the Great Middle East Project here, many of you have heard it in some way. The EC PARTY MPs also know well because the Prime Minister is his co-Chair, that's his own expression. The Great Middle East Project, along with the moderate Islamic Project, is a project that tempers Islam, puts Islam into another form, and the main goal of this project is to ensure the safety of Israel (Israel) in the region; it is to ensure the safety of Israel (Israel) who murdered our nine citizens; it is to ensure the safety of Israel (Islamics) who persecuted Muslims in Gaza. If that's your goal, if your goal is to divide, break up the Islamic world, lay the Islamic world at the feet of Western imperialism, then this nation will not allow it, the Turkish nation will not allow you to do it, I assure you. We've seen this movie a long time ago. In fact, it is a continuation of orange revolutions that are expressed in fancy phrases called the Arab spring. We've seen orange revolutions in the Balkans, we've seen orange revolutions before in Georgia, in Ukraine. We know what their methods are, and we know who's behind the orange revolutions, and we know exactly who Soros is here, and we know your role in the Arab revolutions today. Of course, have you ever considered what will happen in the end of Arab spring? You're playing revolutionary in Syria, and after the regime collapses in Syria, what will your share, our share, and our share of the Turkish nation's share as a nation? Let me put it this way, the ACK that we're all fighting today is going to fall, and the KCK that the PKK is trying to do at gunpoint is going to fall in our share. A Kurdish formation will emerge after regime change in Syria, and Syrian territorial integrity -- as in Iraq today -- will be threatened. Is that your goal? After the division of Iraq, are you also trying to divide Syria? Then why are you fighting the ACK? You're working together, they're working from the inside, you're trying to do the ACK. We've expressed it before, again, again, that we will, of course, condemn those who use weapons against their people -- whoever they are -- we will condemn all kinds of dictatorships, we will condemn all kinds of coups, we will condemn the dictators in Arab geography, we will condemn the civil dictatorship that they're trying to take Turkey today, and we will condemn the civil dictatorship that you're trying to carry out today, but we need to think over and over and over again. What's in it for us? After this revolution in Syria, you do not see the zeal that Israel has for building the great Kurdistan, the main goal of Israel. At least consider these conversations, and at least respect the will of the nation in the House, and we'll discuss this matter here. Whatever is to be done must be decided together, and whatever is to be done must be decided by the House. Unfortunately, today, the Turkish nation, the Turkish state, has been brought to the brink of war, when one of them was brought to Syria. Six months ago, we were saying that we're going to be confronted with what happened and we're going to go to war. We're saying that, unfortunately, today, the AKP government has come a long way. By the way, about the missing journalists in Syria, we also need to take matters into our own hands as well as the subject of the missing journalists. Just as the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has raised up on the mountain, if you have forgotten the police, the teacher, you should not forget the missing journalists in Syria and become a Trojan horse in which the United States of America will carry out the BOP, you should not spend Turkey so cheaply. As a result, it is planned to establish a Kurdistan (Kürdistan) between Armenia and Israel that will sever Turkey's ties to the Turkish world. Leave everything aside, the Turkish nation has not authorized you to build a Kurdistan. As the National Movement Party, I want to remind you once and for all that we will not allow this, that we will be here for you at every opportunity, in every environment. In the meantime, it is important to say that in the coldest days of the winter in the Van earthquake, the Turkish nation sees that the container houses, which we could not offer to our citizens in the Van earthquake, were often offered to Syrian immigrants today. Of course, Turkey, the Turkish state, is a great state, and we will open our arms to those who come to us, but we will not keep our priority out of sight. Assad, what happens next needs to be sat down and evaluated by the AKP. We see clearly what happens after Assad. Ask yourself that, take a minute, ask yourselves. You're trying to overthrow Assad. If he's a dictator, let him overthrow his own people. But the book must be done well in the account of what a Syrian (Syria) will cost Turkey to divide after Assad. And in this frame, just as you forgot the Iraqi Turks in Iraq and went after Mesut Barzani, I'm afraid you've forgotten about the Syrian Turks in Syria. While all this is happening in Syria, your only concern, unfortunately, has been the pawns of the global forces. The Syrian Turkmen, the Syrian Turks, are in no way on your agenda. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0048par0096	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk. Here you go, Mr. Ash.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0049par0100	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with the most heartfelt of feelings. I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. On this occasion, I also remember once again our brother, the doctor who was killed in a foul attack yesterday in Antwerp. Of course, the world system is being reconstructed. In particular, every incident that took place in our region during the construction of this system is of particular importance. The Arab spring process, which began in December 2010 in Tunisia, was the name of the rise of democratic, freedom and prosperity demands against autocratic and dictatorial governments in all North Africa and the Middle East, all the way from Gibraltar to Hürmuz. From Tunisia to Egypt, from Libya to Syria, from Yemen to Yemen, people living under one family or bureaucratic regimes throughout the region for fifty and sixty years raised flags in order to become a part of history and gave martyrs in their own territory, as a result of their struggle. Their goal was to make their own destiny, not look at a word that would come out of a few people's lips, and they finally succeeded. Because it was the right of geography, the right of freedom, the right of this geography, democracy, and the right of this geography. This geography of the world's prosperity had the right to get what it deserved. After decades of living under the tyranny and oppression of the Assad regime in Syria, our neighbor, who shared a 920km border, raised the demand for freedom, democracy and prosperity peacefully in the squares. There was no way that Turkey would remain silent about the demands of the people in this process, and the Syrian administration would...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0050par0105	On what? METIN KÜNÜNÜNK (Secondly) has made all diplomatic attempts to ensure that Assad (Assad) and his administration respond positively to the demands of its people. In all talks with our Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister Assad, take the necessary steps to remain indifferent to the demands of the people, and to make Syria a part of the world's system, and to achieve goals that need to be achieved on the path of freedom, prosperity and democracy.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0051par0107	What was that in the press? When did he leave? Don't lie to me!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0108	Turkey's problem is not fighting Syria.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0051par0109	We've never heard of anything like this from the Prime Minister until we arrived a year ago.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0110	Turkey's problem is that it has the right to ignore the demands of the dictators in Syria, to transform itself in Hama. This is our right to be neighbors...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0053par0111	Why didn't you speak to Iraq?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0051par0112	We haven't heard anything like this from the Prime Minister until three or five months ago. Metin, that was never heard of until three or five months ago!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0113	Yesterday, our relations with Syria continued in a diplomatic manner. You know as well as I do that international relations are dynamic.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0051par0114	Until three or five months ago, there was a meeting of the Council of Ministers together.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0115	In international relations, the interests of countries are fundamental. There's no sentimentality in international relations.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0054par0116	Are international relations with Syria in Turkey's interest now?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0117	There's no stability in international relations. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk had drawn Misakimilli....from Lazkiye..
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0054par0118	So you'll take Aleppo? Will you take Aleppo, Aleppo?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0119	But then he returned, and in order to rebuild a state in this country, to rebuild a state in this land, he drew out our current borders and gave us this country.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0054par0120	Why didn't you take Mosul? You're saying it's private...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0121	Honourable lawmakers, however, the results of the demands in Syria were the same as that of Assad the father who lived thirty years ago in Hama. Again violence, slaughter, again tears, and again the blood of the Syrian people.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0054par0122	Why didn't you take Mosul?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0123	As Turkey, our relations with Syria, where we share a long border with our historical, cultural, and social relationship, our kinship.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0054par0124	What about the Turks in Iraq? He's not a relative?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0125	...keeping us alive has always been a leading issue, and it will continue to exist. Answer the demands of the Syrian people aloud in peace. We will continue to say so. When Syria reached out to us as a friend, we responded the same way, but when necessary...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0054par0127	Didn't you hug your Prime Minister?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0128	...whenever he was hostile to his own people, we followed an uncompromising policy against it, and we will continue to follow it. I remember those days of the Hama massacre, the hummus massacre. If those who ruled Turkey on that day could raise their voice against Baba Assad, thousands of Syrian brothers in Hama. and Hummus would not have died that night, but they were martyrs. So for the last year, we've always seen relations with Syria as a result of international dynamics, which would benefit both countries in the active foreign policy context that Turkey implemented, as a result of international dynamics, as a result of the benefits of the Syrian people. As we developed all these relationships, we did not forget Hama, nor did we forget Humus. We continued our policies so that there would never be another Hama. Turkey's position, based on democracy, freedom, wealth, human rights, was at the center of its relations with Syria. We have no business in Syria, but what is Russia doing here? We have no relationship in Syria, but what is neighbouring Iran doing here? We have no relationship in Syria, but what is China doing all the way from Asia?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0055par0129	Metin, include America, America! Can't you join America?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0130	It's about Syria, where Syria is next to us, where we have the longest border.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0056par0132	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0133	It's none of our business, but it's going to be the center of the Soviets' problem of landing in the hot seas, and it's going to be the equivalent of China's claim to exist in the Mediterranean, and it's going to be the equivalent of Iran's claim to exist in the Mediterranean.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0057par0135	Oh, come on! Which Russia are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0136	...the state of the Republic of Turkey, who is the heir to this ancient tradition of civilization next to us in geography, will have nothing to do with Syria! Can you fit it into your conscience, into your senses? Turkey's...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0058par0137	Let's fight China too! Don't forget East Turkistan, East Turkistan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0138	Look, fellas, don't forget the Soviets' struggle to land on the hot seas. Don't forget to land the warships to Tarsus.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0059par0140	Reverend MPs...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0141	Don't forget that Iran has to get out of Hürmuz, and take out warships to the eastern Mediterranean. Remember the Chinese struggle to re-exist in Syria under African and Middle Eastern policy.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0060par0142	Let's go to East Turkistan, East Turkistan...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0143	With all of this, the interests of the state of the Republic of Turkey have decided where we stand, and the rest of this nation has decided. We will not be indifferent to any of the issues in this geography, as it has never been before, nor will we continue to remain indifferent to it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0060par0144	Get the Armenians out of Karabakh, the Armenians.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0052par0145	Turkey's stance on democracy, freedom, wealth, human rights, will remain the centre of relations with Syria.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0060par0147	Get the Armenians out of the mountain.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0061par0148	Mr. Hatibin, don't shout for nothing.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0062par0149	We're trying to break it, Mr. President, we can't!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0061par0150	You can't do it, it's opened, it's opened better.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0063par0151	In this context, when Assad ceases to point a gun at his own people, introduces Syria to democracy, stops taking lives...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0064par0152	Do you know where 1 million Azerbaijans are? There are no Turkmen left in Iraq.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0065par0153	You've introduced Libya, you've introduced Egypt, now it's time for Syria, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0063par0154	...Turkey will continue its contribution to the transformation of this process through such peaceful means. The basis of Turkey's relationship with Assad's regime is that of our brothers who were slaughtered in Syria, and those relationships were damaged because of Assad, who slaughtered them. Before those events, our Prime Minister and Foreign Minister first used good relations...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0066par0157	When American soldiers raped Muslim women in Iraq, you wished the American soldier well, what was that?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0063par0158	...he always wanted to meet with Syrian government officials to meet democracy as soon as possible. In this direction, Turkey has done its part to end the blood flow in Syria by making international initiatives in the region, then in the United Nations, and will continue to do so.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0066par0159	When the American soldier raped the Iraqi Muslim, you enjoyed it here, shared the same pleasure with the American soldier!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0063par0160	One day, I believe, the Syrian people will also meet democracy and freedom. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0067par0163	Thank you, Mr. Ashy.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0068par0164	You had the same pleasure as an American soldier when you raped an Iraqi Muslim woman!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0067par0165	Now Mr. Ash is back in its place. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Mr. Slim has a request, and I will listen to him, and if you shout, I can't hear him. You've caused Mr. Ashkunk to open so quickly, don't continue. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0069par0170	Mr. President, we've been very concerned about the general meeting and the Parliament's release of a statement. For him, because of the importance of the matter, before we vote, I would like a word from you as Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0067par0171	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0069par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, Mr. Faruk Logoglu went to the advisory council on behalf of our group and gave a statement to all political parties. I mean, there's no sanction in this statement, but there's been several times in this House where party groups have agreed on anything important, and they've issued a statement. Our demand is that the government should come here and give information, and the political party groups should talk for ten minutes, as the government does not. Well, we want to open a general meeting, and he's not doing that. The Clave has been disabled. So our children will go to the army? Will the country go to war? Our children, will these soldiers go to Syria? Will the Turkish Armed Forces go abroad? Will foreign armed forces come to Turkey? All this is the work of the House, which is not seen in the House. So we say that the Secretary of State should come in here and brief us. He goes with a finger mark and gets a photo taken, but he doesn't come in here and give us information, according to the request of the Grand National Assembly. Dear lawmakers, what could be more natural than the House to issue a statement? Everyone here has spoken, everyone has spoken. Now, in a moment, you will again be rejected by your votes, by the AKP's votes. The account must be answered. If it's important, the matter should be closed. We're not extras here. So the people who put their children in mercenary service, the people who paid for their children, the people who got the bad report, the poor kids in this country, they're gonna send them to war, they're not gonna come to us and they're not gonna give us any information. We don't accept it, it's not true, it's not right. We invite the government to come to the Parliament and give information according to the Civil Code 59. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0070par0184	I submit the Republican People's Party Group's proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0071par0186	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0070par0187	... I'll have it read and processed, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Wednesday, 18/04/2012...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0072par0190	I wanted a promise, too, before that, but...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0070par0191	No, I... Excuse me.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0072par0192	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0193	Now, Mr. President, the AKP's group proposal... See, Article 52 of the Civil Code clearly states that the head of the commission and the government would like to have a law proposal and bill on the agenda less than 48 hours later. Look, it's very clear. So read Article 52. So we've said it over and over again. Don't these AKP-led vice presidents ever know how to read and write? Sir, this is the practice. Then remove Article 52 of the Civil Code. That's no way to practice. There is an open sentence in Article 52 of the Civil Code, which says: "A commission report cannot be released until 48 hours later. The commissioner and the government will offer it to be taken care of. These take not according to Article 52, but according to the 8th joke of 49. The eighth joke, however, is to change the order of reports on legislation and proposals that have come up.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0074par0194	He's in line.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0195	Yeah, he got in line, but after 48 hours of Article 52...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0075par0196	I get it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0197	But apply it, Mr. President, the ruling of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0075par0198	Now, look, it's a matter of principle now, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0199	But don't process it, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0075par0200	So I listened to you, and he went on the record.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0201	But, sir, don't put it in motion according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0075par0202	Now, if you'll excuse me, let's continue. Justice and Development...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0204	But, Mr. President, how... so you're not bound by the Civil Code? Read the Civil Code decree, Article 52, if there is another alternative... If you put the Civil Code on the shelf, then how do you run this House? Sir, it's very clear. He says, "The relevant commissioner or the government wants it." And since the government doesn't want it, you can't process it as a group proposal, sir, so it's very clear, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0076par0205	Mr. President, promise me on the stand.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0206	I mean, anyone who can read and write knows that. It's very clear, sir, so the matter is very clear.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0077par0207	Mr. President, we've discussed this before, we've discussed it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0208	Don't argue, okay? The Civil Code is clear!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0077par0209	You can read and write, but the eighth...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0073par0210	Read this Civil Charter, the Civil Charter, and Article 52. It's not about the 49th article, it's about getting on that agenda and getting in line.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0077par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0078par0212	Mr. President, this has been discussed before, there's no agreement on it. According to the Civil Charter of 52....but before the commission fills 48 hours here...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit02spe0079par0213	I'm inviting the group vice presidents to the back. It's the same thing every time. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0079par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, it is incumbent on Parliament to implement the group proposal, which includes the release of a proposal within 48 hours, according to Article 49 of the Civil Code. This practice continued as a strong test. Previously, on 19/4/2010 and 31/01/2012, the issue was discussed and continued. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 18,2012 (today), I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Charter. AK PARTY Group Deputy President This section of the agenda's Laws 220, 74, 77 and 139, in the section of "Proposals and Other Actions From Commissions," respectively in the order of the 7 8, 9 and 10th and the printed bill 222 and 223 rows and proposal of the Agenda's "Process of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" were adopted into the 11th and 12th rows of other tasks, and the order of other tasks was adopted according to that order. Until the meeting of the General Assembly on Wednesday (April 18th 2012) of the 222nd legislature, until the meeting of the 222nd rows of the draft law bill is completed; and if the talks of the 222nd rows cannot be completed in this merger, the completion of the talks on Thursday (April 19, 2012) will continue until the completion of the talks. Wednesday (April 18th and April 19, 2012) and Thursday (January 24th). If the daily program is not completed at 00 p.m., it will continue its work until the day's schedule is completed. The General Assembly's failure to work Thursday (April 19, 2012) if talks on the 222nd-place bill in its union on Wednesday (April 18, 2012) are finalised. It's recommended. In favor of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, the first word for it is in Mr. Hussain Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0080par0019	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favor of our Justice and Development Party's group proposal. It is expected that our agendas will be busy and that future law proposals or government plans will be carried out by our nation in a very intense way. That's why our working hours are especially this week and next week at 24 p.m. I say we're in favor of our offer to extend it to 100, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0079par0022	The first word against the Justice and Development Party's proposal is Mr. Gürkut Acar. Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0081par0025	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love and respect. My dear friends, this offer is actually a delayed offer, but it's basically an offer that doesn't change anything. My dear friends, we are new parliamentarians. That's not how we thought of the working order of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on our way here, not how we saw it, not how we imagined it. The working order here is actually a complete irregularity. A Parliament that works here until 5:45 a.m. is not an efficient Assembly, friends, but the work that is done is not productive. My dear friends, there's not much here that's been replaced by this offer. Our Parliament's work is not entirely the ruling party's, not even the ruling party's, but the Prime Minister's own instructions. We're working here till morning. Here, at any rate, our people work in the House until 5:45 in the morning, without even finding a chance to fall asleep in a chair. This has nothing to do with international agreements, human rights and efficiency. This needs to be reorganized, shift the hours to the morning hours, and restore the House to a working order. Of course, while we're thinking about the hours of our Parliament, we need to see how the agenda in Turkey is flowing. My dear friends, there are many incidents in Turkey, but many of them do not come to Parliament. Here, my dear friends, there's the matter of Balbay, there's the matter of the arrested MPs, there's the matter of the arrested journalists, there's the issue of the arrested students, and there are 7,000 students who have been expelled from the university just because they criticised power, all of this needs to be discussed and discussed on the agenda of Congress, but we can't discuss them. But there's something more important than that, my dear friends, in Turkey, the Parliament is being deflected, there's a diversion. More debates have been raised before the debate of the law, which has recently been brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, known as ▪4+4. My dear friends, first of all, we need to bring up 4+4+4, and we need to keep it on the agenda. Because this law reduced elementary school to four years; it used to be five years, then it went up to eight years, and then it went down to four years with the approval of the AKP. According to this legislature passed by parliament, we'll give our girls a diploma when they've finished four years. And then what are we gonna tell those girls, guys? We will say: After these four years, you received your diploma, now go home, finish secondary school through open school in your home. It is obvious that this cannot be applied in practice. Lately, especially yesterday and the day before, when Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President went on television as public advertising with their ads and told our girls to read it, it always occurred to me. On the one hand, you're on TV for girls to read, but on the other hand, you're bringing in the 4+4+4 law to prevent girls from reading. My fear is that those who have been enforced by this law will be applied once again. What is it that's been done in the past? If the government wants to reform a public institution in the past, it has blocked the public institution. The Supreme Court has blocked the judiciary; 1.5 million cases have accumulated because there have been judges who have retired from the Supreme Court; they haven't been appointed for a long time, over a year and a half, and after the Supreme Court is blocked, 1.5 million files have accumulated. See, the judiciary is not working, so let's do judicial reform. I think the same thing could happen now in this 4+4+4 law. Because in the second four chapters, they will not be able to train in open schools, and then they will be in power, and they will say, "Let's turn it over to the local authorities, as it did in the past, and we couldn't do it." My dear friends, everyone knows what that means in Turkey. Not only that, but the power has taken four steps beyond that. One has reduced the age of going to Koran courses, which are twelve in Koran courses, to zero. My dear friends, the removal of this means that the seven-year-olds of Turkey, pilgrims who have never had pedagogic training, should be handed over to the teachers, which means that from the age of seven, I leave the situation of the people who were educated in that womb to the discretion of the High Assembly. My dear friends, elementary schools have been taught Arabic. I wonder why they taught Arabic. In this country, letters were made, letters were revolutionized, Latin letters were taken. There are no vowels in Arabic, a, e, I, it doesn't have the letters "U." It's also wanted to be adapted to Turkish because it's not available, but it's been discussed everywhere for about a hundred years, which is not in Turkish, and eventually it's been removed and translated into the Latin alphabet, but the AKP has found its way back, as it turns everything around. Now, instead of a Latin alphabet written from left to right, it's written from right to left, we're going to put it into the children's brains in elementary school. My dear friends, such as this, the selection of primary schools is an event that will hurt Turkey on its basis because the chosen children -- seven, nine years old -- will not know how to choose it. Their father will choose them, but those who choose him after a while will look at those who do not choose religion education as infidels, they will accuse their fathers, their mothers and their infidels, and this division will come to the attention from elementary school. This will bring with it a very dangerous conflict. My dear friends, here I am, five years old, seven years old, and I don't see our children's future very well. Therefore, after taking all these steps -- four -- the AKP is trying to change this agenda, digest them, buy time in society, put them in the background. We're looking at what brought up to put what behind us. Immediately after that, the September 12th case was filed, the September 12th debates were launched, the community was occupied for a while. No, the Lighthouse case came after him this time. As you can see in my tie... the Lighthouse case is AKP's soft belly. In contrast to the admissions of judges and courts in Germany, he was brought here as there is no fraud, there is no organization. But after three prosecutors were replaced, he was brought in and followed by a 28 February trial, and he was occupied with it. After him came the incident of Mehmet Aghar's conviction. My dear friends, the agenda is being deflected in Turkey. The AKP is now trying to make Turkey's Republic into another state, to make it into a theocratic structure under the name of the ill-advised Islamic state, to make it forget to society. We won't, we won't. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0082par0039	You're dreaming, you're dreaming! Wake up!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0083par0040	Thank you, Mr. Acar. In favour of the Justice and Development Party's proposal, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş of Kayseri. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. First of all, I condemn the attack on a doctor, a paramedic, a friend of ours with violence and hatred; I offer my condolences to his family, and ask God's mercy to the deceased. But while our dear congresswoman friends address this issue in their short talks, I would like to say that it is also sad that they have to hold the government and the Ministry of Health responsible and try to collect a policy on this issue.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0085par0046	The opposition is responsible?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0047	Because this incident has made us all very sad. But I'm also quite clear that if our fellow lawmakers, political party groups, are determined and serious about this issue next week, health workers are preparing their motion to set up a research commission on them -- to set up a research commission on them on the day-to-day. We propose to our other political parties here, and if they give their motion to set up a research commission on that issue, we will bring it up on Tuesday and discuss the issue of the establishment of the commission. But as I bring up a subject, as I bring up an event to be damned, I want to say that in these attacks against our government, our Ministry, the criticisms that the vessel's mace has escaped and is wrong. Dear lawmakers, in our recommendation of the Council of Counsellors... As you know, last week, we finished the fourth article in the law on the use of forest land, defined as the law 2/B. All 29 counts. I'll see you in two episodes. There are five international contracts after this law is over. We'll continue negotiations on those international contracts, and then there's Bill 222. There's a law proposal in this bill to change the names of two of our universities. From here, the first one is to be named Sheikh Edebali University, and the second one is to be renamed Hasan Kalyoncu University of Gazi Kent in Gaziantep. In our talks with our political party groups, with our group presidents, today, if we can complete all of these laws, the group has been read in our proposal -- as you have heard in our group proposal -- we would like the General Assembly to work tomorrow, if it doesn't end, to discuss these drafts and proposals on Thursday. Dear MPs, speaking on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Congressman has criticised the Turkish Grand National Assembly for its way and its fundamentals to the end. He may be right, but in this criticism, he also had to say that while we were bringing this group's proposal, we shared it with our political party presidents and the Council of Counsellors and the Council of Counsellors, in the presence of our Speaker of Parliament. We said if we could finish today, let's leave the General Assembly today, because there's about 30 articles, 35 articles, so let's finish these, but don't bring up the group proposals. Our friends are rightfully trying to bring them up, we have group proposals that we want to share with the public; we'll discuss those group proposals in the General Assembly, we'll inform the public about this. He's his own self-appreciation. There's nothing I can say about that. But what we've decided today is that if the 2/B law we count today is 25 points, 5 international contracts that agree on three of these, we may or may not be able to see the others, two of them agree on the 5th and 6th place of the red agenda and the 163th place of the 163th. There's two more we've added. And if the groups don't talk to them, we'll close the General Assembly today after we discuss five international contracts and a bill for changing the names of universities, and we'll continue tomorrow if it's not over. Our dear congressman, who was just speaking, spoke against this group's proposal, bringing up a matter that has no real qualms about the 4+4+4 national education law. I was sitting in my seat wondering if I should answer it or not. Because he tried to use statements about changing the structure of Turkey, about accusing some people of insecurities, but most of our nation... even in the case of Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, which we really appreciated and liked at Kutlu Birth Week... we would like to say that the practice of this system is parallel to the views of our example and example of the person we should take in the Kutlu Birth Week, the life and morality of the Prophet. To be honest, I don't want to discuss any more of the idea of pulling other subjects into other lanes here. The issue of the Lighthouse has been seen in European courts, as it continues, and continues in the courts in Turkey. To bring an issue in the process of the court to a permanent place, such as raw rice, and... whoever's involved in this, who's committed corruption, who's committed corruption, who's committed theft, the AK PARTY, the People of CHP, the People of the Republic of Turkey, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of Turkey, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the People of the United States, the United States, the People of Turkey, the United States, the People of Turkey, the United States, the People of Turkey, the United States, the People of Turkey, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the People of the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, the United States, and the United States, and the United States. It keeps coming up, our ministers, our prime minister, and we're trying to express the truth about it. At the trial stage, we have nothing to say if the judge is going to give them a sentence, but it's unfair to associate it with the AK PARTY, a process that goes beyond political ethics. You can say it in the beginning, but constantly bringing it up and accusing the AK PARTY of corruption is frankly a bit of a pain in the ass. Look, dear lawmakers, in the nine and a half years of AK PARTI power, if corruption had been done, would the 2,000-mile double roads have reached 15,000km?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0086par0054	Don't!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0055	In the days prior to the AK PARTI rule, were we able to bring railways, fast trains from the period when we were trying to get 70 cents from other places, from the IMF, from the World Bank, to run the wheel of the economy -- could we open hospitals, 170 thousand schools, classrooms; could we allow our students to find their books at their desks from the moment their school was opened, instead of 65 universities? When we bought it, the Turkish Republic's safe was not abundant. The vault is clear, the treasure is stable, the central bank's resources are clear, Turkey's debts are clear. Turkey, when it is in the 17 per cent period of public debt and there is no way for Turkey to invest in the 40 per cent of real interest, today, with confidence and stability, with a firm and stable power at its head, its interest rates dropping and the inflation monster is no longer negotiable.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0087par0056	What time did you get the inflation, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0057	...which began to be used for the nation...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0087par0058	Tell me what time you got the inflation.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0059	We're trying to figure out a process. When we work, when we have power, we strive to serve the nation with the resources of the public.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0087par0060	You got inflation at 28 percent, and it's still in two digits.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0061	To be honest, it's unfair to blame the AK PARTY's authority on a matter that has to do with a work that's been done in the judicial phase, and it's painful to their consciences. Our dear nation is already considering it. Every time there was an election, the polls were in front of our nation, and they continued to increase and continue to vote for the AK PARTY Authority. In recent polls, we see that the rate of our citizens who have been in love with the EC PARTY has been increasing steadily. I hereby briefed you on the agenda of the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0087par0063	People are afraid I won't be able to pay my debts, so you scare me.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0084par0064	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0088par0066	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. The final word against the Justice and Development Party's group proposal belongs to Mr. Mehmet Shandir. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0089par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, let me say quickly, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're fulfilling a condition. Indeed, with the ruling party's proposal, the agenda of our Parliament, the General Assembly, the working schedule changes every time. And that's how long it takes to talk about that change, unfortunately. Of course, when he's on this stand, Mr. Elistash, again, he talks about ten minutes to the last second, and he goes back, blaming the past, telling himself everything we know, everything we know, everything we know. Therefore, it is unfair to the House and to the nation. It's not about the nation, it's not about the General Assembly. Parliament should be able to do its own work schedule among its executives, it should be decided on the Council of Counsellors, but it is something that we have, unfortunately, a Civil Charter that is shaped not according to work, but rather based on not working. Now, you know, we have a council decision from last week. There's a set of issues here that we're going to discuss, and there's hours we're going to work on. Last week, we agreed on a month, not a week, but 15:00-20 on Tuesdays. 00, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 2400-20. We're going to work at 00. We agreed together. Mr. Elitaş offered this too, so we said, "Yes, start with your eyes." But not a day from now, not even two days from now, until it's over, first it's 23. Until 00, then until the end.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0090par0074	We've just been through this together, you know, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0089par0075	He gave his reason, and he agreed with us, but as a result, the fingers have no brains, and we didn't object too much because we knew the instructions to the fingers would come true. Dear friends, as Mr. Elitas has agreed, we as opposition parties do not object to the government's agenda, he has chosen him, the nation has chosen him, he has been tasked with solving the problems of the nation. So he has the authority to set the agenda. But then there's the public agenda. It is the opposition's duty to address the public agenda. Because people voted, power follows its own agenda. What we're talking about here today is not the primary public agenda. Look, you're getting calls from here. Today, the bill on the impound of this household property remains on the commission. What's the point of making a law after people, the frog, have their eyes cracked? People can't go home. His stuff was impounded. So by ignoring the trauma that those kids went through, he'd enjoy it here, and in order to lecture like that, do you have the right to steal people's time? Mr. Prime Minister, you're being lectured and lectured by your ministers. We're going to give second jobs to the relatives of the martyr. You've been talking for two years. The other day, he lectured me again, saying, "We're making a change of 20 materials." Bring the law, it's the public's agenda. The martyr relatives visited your group the other day, and you promised again, but you're talking about something else. One other thing: do you feel comfortable with the situation with these arrested MPs? We're almost done a year, but the elected lawmakers are still waiting behind bars, by the will of the nation. Isn't it the duty of this House, this government, to find a solution to these things? But that's not on your agenda, you're on something else... The issue of the people of 4/C, you're filling out the decade, isn't it almost cruel to treat these 4/C) people, who are the address of a very serious injustice among the public workers, who do the same thing, the 4/B/B, the people who do the same job, for different wages, the people who are subject to different status? Let's fix this. No, you're busy with other things. Another thing: These laws under the law are the Supreme Court of the Constitution; they must be brought to the General Assembly immediately and discussed, but you do not bring them despite our insistence. So you're not running the country by law, you're running the country by law. The Court is there, and you do not bring the reports; the Constitution has a decree; it must be discussed in the General Assembly, and you do not. I repeat: There are those who have such special problems in society, social communities, such as the problems of these private security guards, their rights of identity... a government of persecution, as the Minister put it. He says, "The treatment of the Tajheron workers is a rule of persecution, this is the law of persecution." Mr. Secretary says so, let's fix this. Dear friends, the leaders, the first step in our democracy, have very serious problems. Another statement from the government the other day: we'll remove the capitals. The thousands of leaders don't know what they're going to be like. The municipalities have problems.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0091par0086	You're saying the wrong things the paper wrote to the government.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0089par0087	I get it, but it comes from you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0091par0088	Newspaper news...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0092par0089	Then repeat it, Mr. Elistash.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0089par0090	You say it and then you deny it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0091par0091	The Vice President denied the issue, and we said there was no such thing.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0089par0092	As a result -- look, I repeat -- it's your obligation to follow the government's agenda as group presidents, thank you, you'll bring it. Mr. Prime Minister, you may order another law here in a moment, we have no choice, and you have no stamina, but it is the opposition's duty to discuss the public's agenda here. We'll bring them here and we'll meet with the group proposals, the counseling board, with the group proposals. One other thing, guys, this Syria thing is very important. Mr. Metin Ashunk gave an exciting speech here, but he also gave an unfortunate speech. In Syria, he asked, "What is Russia's work? " But America couldn't ask about it, it couldn't ask about France. That's what we object to. This geography is our geography. It is not appropriate for Turkey to subvert interference from outside this geography. This is the incident that we object to, and we insist: "Come, let the government give us some information before the general discussion of this matter, what's going on?" You go and inform China, and you inform Saudi Arabia, and you inform the mountain, and the stone, and you do not inform the people, nor the representatives of the people. The issue of Syria, Turkey's policy, your government's attitude, in my opinion, is Turkey's most important agenda because it will determine the future. I'm from Hatay. I'm from Mersin. Let me tell you something: PKK camps were established in Hatay's eastern borders under state knowledge. So Turkey, which has been struggling with PKK camps in northern Iraq for 30 years, is now facing a new problem, a new problem, with policies that you have implemented. Come on, let's talk about this. Let the government come in, let them give us information, let us be informed, and let us express our concerns. Therefore, this motion brought by the AKP Group, this Council of Counsellor proposal will likely change tomorrow, and there is no need to discuss it too much. If you can finish the agenda, Mr. Elitaş says... the 2/B law is a very important law for me, we need to discuss it, so we need to negotiate, not the shape requirement. We'll finish that negotiation soon, and we don't have to get ahead of ourselves, and we don't have to rush it, so we'll have to discuss it for a week if we have to. I don't know what time we'll be working for him tonight, but it'll be accepted by the AKP proposal until the end, so it's a chore. When will it be over? It's unclear. We'll keep going until we're tired, we'll keep going until it's gone. I wish you all the ease, but be here, with a roll call, and we'll keep you all here with enough to decide. I'd like to present this to you. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0093par0098	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly In response to the invitation of the Kosovo Parliament's internal, security and Kosovo Security Force Control commissions, the delegation of members of the National Defence and Interior Commission of the Turkish Parliament is scheduled to make an official visit to Kosovo. The decision of the committee to attend the event is submitted to the General Assembly's approvals under Article 6/6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0094par0113	Mr. President, I've just been told that the Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group... Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly of Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Chairman Cevdet Erdöl.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0095par0118	I don't hear any...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0094par0119	If you'll excuse me... The European Children's Parliament will be held on April 25, 2012... The Deputy Chairman of the AKP Group, in his speech... He's going to Brussels to attend his event... Sir, wait... why is the clerk reading? Let him go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0096par0124	Let him finish, I'll listen to you, let him finish. The law shall be submitted to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0130	Mr. President, speaking on the AKP proposal, Mustafa Elitaş, I'm the one who made it very clear that this Lighthouse has been lied about, slandered. In fact, I'm carrying a flashlight, you know, and I'm carrying this dirty flashlight. Look, this flashlight is dirty, too. So I'm not gonna let this go until this lantern is clean. Now he's saying... but if you'll excuse me, he's slandering, there's a taunt, I promise you, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0096par0132	He didn't say anything about your person, so I listened very carefully.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0133	Sir, no, I listened to my position.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0096par0134	Then I'll have them bring in the paperwork because your name didn't come up.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0135	But you have to promise me after this hour, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0098par0136	Mr. President, no teasing.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0137	No, he comes out here and tells lies in public.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0099par0138	I mean, look, I'm going to see things so that you can get a word in edgewise.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0098par0139	Mr. President, there's no bullying. He's telling me to bring it in like a piece of rice.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0140	Look, Mr. President, there is more money in the account of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's son's brother-in-law than 400,000 euros in Germany.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0098par0141	I don't want to talk about something that's in the jurisdiction...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0142	So Zechariah Karaman's son and Recep Erdogan's brother-in-law.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0100par0143	I get it, I get it, I get it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0144	400,000 euros came in his name.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0101par0145	Is there such a procedure, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0146	Why not, sir? You said it, I'll answer it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0102par0147	What should I do, Mr. Elitaş, so what should we do?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0103par0148	Whatever Mr. Kamer says is true.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0149	Mr. President, look, he framed us. So she framed him, she says...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0102par0150	Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0151	Why did you fire three prosecutors at the Lighthouse? Why did you depose the prosecutors who arrested them?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0102par0152	Mr. Young, you got it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0097par0153	Why are you investigating him? You don't put prosecutors on duty, you don't put judges on duty. Mr. President, can I tell you something, sir?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0102par0155	I get it, Mr. Young, they're all in. I'll get a report. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, but we move to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the third place, Mr. Mehmet Şandir, deputy chairman of the National Movement Party and MP of the National Movement Party, Mr. Mehmet Şandir, Minister of the Forest Villages, Minister of the People's Party, Presidents of the People's Party, Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi, Ankara MP Emine Güçer Tarhan and Yalova MP Mr. Muharrem Slim; 2/B, Minister of Peace Act; Minister of the Law on the Development of Forest Villages; Minister of the People's Party; Mr. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Minister of İstanbul, Mr. Emine Görer Tarhan and Yalova MP, Minister of Parliament, Minister of Parliament of Parliament, and 68 MPs of Peace; Minister of the Parliament and Minister of Parliament, Minister of the Parliament and Minister of Parliament and Ministership of Parliament and Ministership of Parliament and Minister of the Parliament and Ministership of the Parliament and Ministership of the Parliament of the Parliament of the Parliament and Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Minister of the Council of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and Parliament and Parliament of Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Parliament of the Parliament and Parliament and Parliament of Parliament and Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of the Parliament and Parliament and Parliament and Parliament of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament of Parliament of the Council of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and the Constitution of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament of Parliament and the Council of the Constitution. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In the 94th Union, dated 12/4/2012, Article 4 was adopted in the first part of the bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91. Now, if there are any other clauses in the first section, I'm going to submit them to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause. There are three motions in Article 5 that I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of Forest Villagers Number 198 and the assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland has been adopted. Article 2 of the Article 2. It is immediately wooded as a state forest by the General Directorate of the Forest," which is part of its joke, and is planted as a state forest within a year by the General Directorate of the Forest. " We offer and offer to change it into form. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of Article (1) of the 5th article of the 198 Numbered Charter, which is currently in session, the area that is possible to be converted from areas 2/A to forests is also reserved for the Treasury at the request of the Forest General Directorate. We submit and propose the addition of the provision of the provision of the 2/B." M. Akif Hamzacebi Selahtin Karaahmetoğlu Ramis Topal I'll read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the release of the "or next-door" clause in Article 5 of the 198 bill. Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0104par0186	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0102par0187	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0105par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in this motion, we have made an offer to protect the forest villagers, the great House of Honor. However, I would like to present a few things to the attention of the General Assembly. Because of the will of the nation, the MPs elected by the nation, and the MPs who served on behalf of the nation, yesterday, the Home Secretary of the Interior has made a confession and agreed on this stand. He was caught on this stand, on this microphone, live on the air. Now, this crime, my friends, is a felony, a crime worse than the Watergate scandal. The Supreme Court's Attorney of the Supreme Court must take the indictment immediately for the transfer of the Supreme Court to the Supreme Court, or the High Court will have to be carried out by the Parliament's investigation. Yeah, I need 10% signatures. We have 30 MPs as Peace and Democracy and bloc MPs, we have arrested MPs; we don't have enough. The main opposition is enough. The indictment of the transfer to the Supreme Court must be read on this council bench. I've given you a warning about this historical issue.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0106par0191	There's no need to investigate, he already confessed.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0105par0192	He confessed, but the opposition parties have to file the indictment in the House. Again, we saw a symbol of our history, our culture, thousands of years of multilingual, multicultural wealth, our mosaic, our symbol, here they are, the Zarathust religion. I'm asking the Minister that he should go to the Kurdish language section of Artukoğlu University and see the same symbol. Your universities have the same symbol, and everywhere there's history, culture, education, there's these symbols. No one can take these symbols from our history, from our culture. I wanted to do that as a reminder here. But, the worst, the worst, is something that I'm really sorry to hear; it showed a picture here, Minister, two people, who are unknown. It's a picture, and here they are slaughtering a pig. Through this pig, they encourage religions outside Christianity or Islam, alienating Islam. If he comes to pig politics, the last thing he needs to talk to is the AK PARTY government. If the Minister had asked the Ministry of Agriculture and Animalism, they would have seen for themselves that they had built 87 pig farms during the AK PARTY administrations. Not only did they build 87 pig farms, but 1 million pig productions were made during the AK PARTY administrations, and interestingly, I'm going to give you only twenty-five counties of these productions. Take a good look at these provinces: Labeleli, Manisa, Erzincan, Eskişehir, Kastamon, Çorum, Isparta, Kayseri, Mersin, Bilecik, Adana, Denizli, Burdur, Afyon. There's no pig farm in the east, southeast. To teach religion to a people, especially Kurdish people, to exploit religion, to see one more fact for those who bullshit here through religion: there are confessions of the Ministry of Agriculture in the petitions given to the Parliamentary Commission in these regulations. Here he confesses openly how they build and encourage pig farms, how many tons of pork were sold to universities. Look, not only that, the Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs reported to the European Union with this English text you see. See, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the AK PARTY, the fourth article in this regulation, includes, enshrined, enshrined, enshrined the pig in livestock. So if they want to know how their policies of deception have turned from pig companies, they want to look at their exact definitions of raw red meat.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0107par0198	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0105par0199	See, within the scope, they see how the government of the AK PARTY formalizes pigs, boars, and other animals again. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Now it's not just that...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0107par0202	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0105par0203	Don't do pig politics, guys. Pig politics won't do you any good. Your lie will be revealed, and what you say here will come and find you, and I'll remind you again.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0107par0205	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the end of Article (1) of the 5th article of the 198 Numbered Charter, which is currently in session, the area that is possible to be converted from areas 2/A to forests is also reserved for the Treasury at the request of the Forest General Directorate. We submit and propose the addition of the provision of the provision of the 2/B." Ramadan Kerim Özkan (Burdur) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0108par0213	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0107par0214	Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0109par0216	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 5th Amendment to the sale of the Treasury's Agriculture Lands with the support of Forest Villagers' Developments in the name of the Treasury and the assessment of Lands Out of Forests. I salute you all with respect and love. The definition, known in public as 2/B, is on the 169th and 170th amendments of our Constitution, and is on Turkey's agenda for some 42 years, due to the loss of forest quality before 31/12/1981. The hug of the state and the citizen is our greatest wish. We have a wish and a proposal that this bill is a peace law, but it's a pretty high opinion that the bill violates the 169th and 170th Articles of our Constitution, because the 2/B areas are supposed to be used for the development of the forest villager, and that the sales process is wrong. So we say that this bill, which we call the law of peace, should not become the ordeal of the forest villagers. As we said in the commission, let there be a law that deals primarily with the relevant articles of the Constitution, which deals with the wider populations, and solves problems. When we solve the problem 2/B, I would like to remind you once again that it is wrong to apply poverty to the state's reports like the forest villager, who were once identified, and who were the director general of the ORCY, the forest villagers, by saying, "The price is the price." And I want to remind you, dear lawmakers, once again that the price is too high. The AKP's friends saw this, so they made a motion that 50 per cent of the price be the price of sale. However, despite the fact that we asked for groupization of property tax on this issue, it was not accepted. I want to make one more thing clear to you here. In the subcommittee, friends, the testimony of this rail price was 70 percent. And then it came to our commission as this percentage, but I see that you're going back up to 70 percent of the motion that we've just received from our group's vice president, so I'd like to share with you once again why there's so much inconsistency, and why these farmers, these jungle villagers, are not thought of. Why am I expressing this? There are 54 million, 875 thousand square meters of 2/B in the number of parcels of 2,715. It's our wish that these areas here can be bought by the interested ones. I hope these fields don't fall into the hands of individuals or organizations for the sake of the rant. There is only one village, as Mr. Minister has expressed in the commission, although there is a regulation on the part of Article 2 (a) of the Law on Forest Number 6831 that would be difficult to implement 2/A, and we would like to underline: it is very difficult to get the established villagers out of the forest area. One thing I want to emphasize in terms of good use of the process is the development and support of forest villagers, despite Article 170, is the appreciation of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. The reason is that since most of the income is being transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism's budget, it's up to the Ministry's initiative, as we say in the commissions. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism does not even have the Prime Minister, who is now authorized by the MIT Law. I'm having a hard time understanding why the Department of Environment and Urbanism is being given so much authority here. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0110par0225	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of Forest Villagers Number 198 and the assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland has been adopted. Article 2 of the Article 2. It is immediately wooded as a state forest by the General Directorate of the Forest," which is part of its joke, and is planted as a state forest within a year by the General Directorate of the Forest. " We offer and offer to change it into form. Ali Öz (Mersin) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0111par0233	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0110par0234	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0112par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my views on the National Party of Action on the Bill of Law on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands, in the name of the Forest Villagers' Developments, and the Evaluation of Places Outside the Forest Borders in the Name of the Treasure. I salute the High Council. The issue of raising the income level of forest villagers and the assessment of the law 2/B, which has been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure, is the undeniable fact that our country is one of its major social dimensions, one of its major, important issues. Here we have to ask ourselves, together, if this bill will allow the forest villagers to find what they expect from this law. Most importantly, will this bill contribute to the increase in our forest existence? Are there specifics in the new bill on these matters? With the new bill, is the purpose of funding the budget to reduce the effects of the economic crisis, or will the opportunity of new Rant fields arise? From 1974 until the end of 2007, when the first application began, 2/B was removed from the area of the forest with 473,419 hectares. Practice 2/B is estimated to be approximately 600,000 hectares once the cadastro studies are completed. In view of the grounds, the forest villagers will see the support they deserve, not symbolically, but the social pressure on the forests of those who live in a prosperous forest will end, and no village with 2/A practices will remain undeveloped, no shortage of credit for the private wooding, no shortage of new forest areas, no shortage of resources for the creation of new forest areas, and basically the resources that have been obtained will give our forest villagers and our forests a golden age. Dear lawmakers, support for the development of forest villagers should be the spirit of the bill, but the forest and forest villagers were not given the necessary importance by providing a funny amount of resources with it. We have some concerns about the detection of sales costs. One of them is the fact that no matter how well the bill is prepared, the application can't be achieved if it's not good, and the critical issue in implementing this law is the determination of the cost. Rayic will determine the price by commissions made by national property managers or property managers. Past applications have shown that since the price of the rails set by this administration is usually high, there are often no buyers for the moving-ins that are being auctioned off. A number of tenders will be resaled on a lower price for non-responsored movers with a lower price. The border to each other will only be able to detect immovable rails in separate villages in separate counties, sometimes twice as many as three times different. Under Article 6 of the Law, sales will be made to those who accept the price of the sale determined by the administration without objection and without a lawsuit. In many places, however, property tax values are above market value, including Istanbul. Since this arrangement is a virtually liquidating law that will solve a major problem in our country that has become very important and has become gangrene, then the implementation of this law must be very high. Otherwise, if this law is arranged to solve the problem in certain places, it is important to remember that the end of this problem can lead to new problems that are more complex and unresolved than before. Now, I ask you, if you try to sell to our citizens who live in villages such as Anamur Forest, Bozyaz Dereköy, Aydıncık Karadere, Gülnar Old Yörk, Silifke Cave, Mut Narlidere, Erdemli Toros, Tarsus Kashli village, where they live, even if it's possible to use these places from their father's grandfather, even if it's possible, it's not actually possible to sell them to their father, even if they don't buy it. Because in this case, you'll also break social peace. For him, in the arrangement, we have to carefully find a way to give the 2/B areas to his user in the areas similar to the villages I've mentioned. The rightful owners of these areas are mostly poor forest villagers. Thus, a symbolic price must be set in line with the joke of supporting the already poor. This track can be about 10 per cent or 20 per cent of its value. The application price must be reduced to 500 euros, and the period of the sale must be held as a decade, not four years. The distribution of 2/B fields shows that 216,640 hectares cover high terrain along the shoreline. He says that the land that is out of range, especially the forest-designed areas, should be sold to our farmers, local forest villagers, and co-ops, at a price of value, I salute the High Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0113par0247	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0114par0248	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0113par0249	Sir, we asked for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit03spe0114par0250	Well, I didn't hear him, so I'm gonna look for him on the item now. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0114par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. A special meeting of the Turkish Grand National Assembly at 2 p.m. Monday (April 23rd 2012) for the celebration of the 92nd anniversary of the Grand National Sovereignty and Children's Day, a special meeting of the General Assembly for the meaning and importance of the day, was proposed by the Council of Ministers of Turkey, whose talks will be held on Monday (April 23, 2012), with the heads of political party groups and their group not present, and the president of the political party, who is a member of parliament, has been promised for 10 minutes, and the approval of the General Assembly for other issues not discussed in this merger. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We'll resume the talks of Bill 198 from where we left off. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. There are four motions on the 10th article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 10 of the Law Bill on the Sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands should be changed as follows: Supporting the Development of the Number 198 Forest Villagers and Assessing Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of the Treasure. The amount of income obtained from the implementation of this Law will be paid by the Council of Ministers to be used for investment purposes by the end of the month, regardless of the overall budget's income and expense accounts. In response to the proportion set by the Council of Ministers' decision not to exceed 90 per cent of the remaining amount, the current year's general budget (B) has special income and the rest are envisioned as revenues, depending on the income. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adding the expression "at least 70 per cent," the expression "not to exceed 90 per cent" in Article 2 of Article 10 of the 198 bill, Adding the bell below to item 10, The forest directorate works for the creation of new forest areas and uses the budget for the creation of new forest fields, at least 50 per cent of the income from 2B land every year." We supply and offer. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of Forest Villagers Number 198 and the assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland is 10. Article 2. The article states that it is not to exceed 90 per cent of the revenues obtained from this law enforcement," not to exceed 50 per cent instead of 90 per cent of its declaration," and on the basis of that, 3. The budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which is estimated to be a private income in its joke, records revenues for the general budget (B) marked for the transformation of disaster-threatening areas in the budget. We offer and propose that the other 50 per cent will be changed into a prerequisite in the budget of the Director-General of the Forest. I'm going to read the current motion and process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The establishment of the new forest areas of the proposed 198 rows is the 10th edition of the Charter, entitled the support of the people of villages, incomes, expenditures and exemptions. We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. The facility of new forest areas is supported, revenues, expenditures and exemptions from the villages in or near state forests. 1) The Forest General Directorate takes the necessary measures to improve the income level of its inhabitants in and next door villages within the state forests. Other entries are covered by grant or loan support through the means of operating tools and equipment to be provided for this purpose. 2) The revenues obtained from the implementation of this law are recorded in the general budget (B) table. These incomes... A) 40% are the development of forest villagers and the development of forest areas and the creation of new forest areas B) 30 per cent of the substructure and improvement of settlements on slums and 2/B sites and strengthening buildings in cities against earthquakes C) 30% of the population is supported by animalism and the development and support of public universities In order to use it for its purpose, the budgets of relevant administrations are provided as much as the ratios they split. In order to run services specified by these grants, the grants to other public administrations under the general budget can be transferred to other administrations as well as to other administrations. The sale, registration, registration, discharge, correction, ifraz, correction, gender change and mortgage transactions are exempted from the inheritance and completion of transactions in the implementation of these laws, Article 492 and from the fees taken under the Law on City Influences No. 2664, and from the charges taken under the general administration. Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0115par0044	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0114par0045	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0116par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Look, we're here, we're getting justice in this motion, we're splitting our income from the forest, so we want to do justice. In your law, 10 percent of the revenues are given to the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks, 90% to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. We're protecting the forest villagers and protecting the universities and building the infrastructure of the forest villagers, protecting the City and Environment Ministry, developing animalism, supporting our universities, so we're providing justice. That's what we're proposing. My dear friends, I have already said this, and I have spoken in the commission, that the son of the fool shall give, until he giveth away the bird in the cage; and the bird in the cage is ours. This bird is ours, but we're taking this bird, the Ministry of the Forest is busy with it, it's protected the forest for years, it's worked, it's tortured it, but we're taking it. I can't eat it, you can eat it, brother. We're giving it to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0117par0050	They're going to make a urban transformation.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0116par0051	In terms of urban transformation. He's already got one hand in the oil, one hand in the honey. Like the light, oil flows from the mountains, honey flows from the plain. He's got income, he's got an unfair rivalry. He's well-income. I mean, we don't understand why you put this in an institution like this. Dear friends, let us also cultivate animalism. The forest peasant is already poor. There used to be an ORC, so we moved it. ORCHO gave him four cows, the forest peasant milked his milk, took his calf, fed his calf, fed him, fed him, sold him his child's wedding, removed his child's tuition. We're depriving him, too. The poorest part, we're talking about seven million. Why don't we protect this forest peasant? In the commission on the value, we did some pretty good things, not 70 percent, but 50 percent. The commission has agreed. Look, the Commissioner's pissed off, he's not here right now. Mr. Mehmet sat next to you. Your Minister won't take it either.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0118par0054	The future, the future.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0116par0055	Where's the future? We didn't decide this together, my dear friends. But the commissioners -- I took a picture of them -- they sat there, in that corner, they couldn't convince Ali Babacan. Antalya MP, İstanbul MP, İzmir MP, ruling MPs, Commissioner sat down here to negotiate with Ali Babacan for an hour. He insisted on doing 70. This peasant's already miserable, the men who buy it are miserable. Blood comes out. Says the citizen. The area 2/B is flooded. I cleaned that stone, carried the stone on my back, brought water, brought electricity. I make a living here. If it's sold at this rate, I can't buy this place. I'll shoot the man who'll take it, and there'll be murder, he says. He says it by name. I'm sixty-five years old, I don't hesitate to commit this murder. If a man is born of his mother, then let him come forth, and let him come before me. We're warning you. This value is very expensive, my dear friends. Therefore, we have a motion in this 12th article, and I ask you to accept it. Really, these 2/B places are in a very difficult position. I would like to share with you the last two verses of a poem by Tofik Fikret. Whoever falls upon it, take this verse: Eat ye, my lords, and this house is yours. When you are satisfied, eat until it is full. The poor country will give you all it's got Your body, your life, your hope, your dream The whole of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it, all of it. So swallow up what is unlawful and what is unlawful. Eat, my lords, and eat, for this is your affair. When you are satisfied, eat until it is full. This blend comes to an end, let's fight it out! You'll see tomorrow, it'll go out, it'll go out, it'll go out, it'll go out, it'll go out, it'll go out, it'll go out, it'll go out, Today's stomach arc, today's soup is hot, Chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop. Eat, my lords, and eat, for this is your affair. When you are satisfied, when you are stuffed, eat until it cracks! Tofik Fikret told it beautifully. On top of that, he says, "Let the shareholders take it," and I salute the high council. I want our motion accepted, my dear friends. We're really getting justice here. The forest peasant is protected, the forest peasant's infrastructure is protected. Our Department of Urbanism is protected, our universities are protected, our public universities are protected. We're lighting a light on those science nests from here. What were we saying about our colleges? He's got a hamma, he's got no drum, he's got no drum. This income you're sending to colleges is going to be a bath, and he's going to have drums, and he's going to have lots. With these feelings, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0119par0075	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of Forest Villagers Number 198 and the assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland is 10. Article 2. The article stated in its joke was to be replaced by "not over 50% of the same substance, not over 90 per cent" in the statement "not over 90 per cent" in order not to exceed 90 per cent of the revenues obtained from this law enforcement. The budget of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, which is estimated to be a private income in its joke, records revenues for the general budget (B) marked for the transformation of disaster-threatening areas in the budget. We offer and propose that the other 50 per cent will be changed into a prerequisite in the budget of the Director-General of the Forest. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0120par0083	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0119par0084	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0121par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, I give you my regards. I'd like to pick up where we left off. It is no longer possible to complete the shortcomings of this law because you are stubborn. It's not a negotiation, it's an imposition. For what it's worth, the National Movement Party expressed its support for this law from day one, even offering parallel law. As far as I know, they're expressing their own statements, and the Republican People's Party has proposed the law on this law, and on the first day, they said that we support it. Our requirement is very clear, so at the point of solving a problem that has become sari and gangrene, we, as opposition parties, are taking a supporting mission, not inhibiting it. But it must not be incomplete, so this compromise must not be wasted, dear MPs. Each time, Mr. Secretary, the government must not waste a compromise we cannot achieve, not to waste it on spite. This law is incomplete. Look, my dear friends, the Supreme Court has a mistrial on this matter before, and they have been declared a mistrial. What is it? The Constitutional Court decrees that the word "value" in Article 170 of the Constitution shall be contrary to the Constitution. Now, it doesn't matter if you write the evaluation of the 2/B properties above this law, without commenting on it, without commenting on it, without changing it, because this material -- in a sense, you're caught red-handed -- you're not judging these fields for the development of forest villages, you're using them to transfer them to other resources. Now, if the Constitutional Court is going to rule by law, if it's really the Constitutional Court, it's yesterday, it's not going to say that today. Now, you make a law based on the word "appropriation" as if nothing was going to happen at this point, but in your assessment, you use your income against the Constitution 170. What are you doing? You transfer 90 percent of the money from here into urban transformation. That's not possible. This is not in the Constitution, such an opportunity, dear friends. The law changes, not the law of God, but the law must be changed by staying within the law. If Turkey is a state of law... I mean, I'm telling you, we support this law, but if this law goes to the Constitutional Court, it's cancelled on these grounds, let's fix it. As a statement of will, I would like to say that the National Movement Party is ready to support you with 50 MPs, so let's correctly define the word "value" in Article 170, and solve this 2/B problem. But by ignoring this declaration of reconciliation, you have our numerical majority, and we will remove it. If you say, "You have changed the law in illegal ways." That's not true, dear friends. So, as the National Movement Party, we're saying that the TVs are off, we're not in the show, we're not in the mind, we're in the competition, but if we're doing a serious job, in my opinion, with the most important compromise in the history of the Republic, we're going to talk about the possible problems that may arise from the implementation of this law in the following motions. The responsibility of knowing, the responsibility of knowledge, the responsibility of being a human being from practice, we warn you: Let's do the right thing, let's do the right thing. You have no right to keep this House occupied with amendments, you're wasting everyone's time. You're constantly changing the laws you've made before they've even begun to apply. We've changed the Turkish Trade Law together, and now you're going to change it again before you start implementing it. So, Mr. Secretary, I propose to the ruling party's leadership again with open heart: let's get this law straight, let's solve people's problems. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0122par0094	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion denied. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adding the expression "at least 70 per cent," the expression "not to exceed 90 per cent" in Article 2 of Article 10 of the 198 bill, Adding the bell below to item 10, The forest directorate works for the creation of new forest areas and uses the budget for the creation of new forest fields, at least 50 per cent of the income from 2B land every year." We supply and offer. Abdullah Levent Tüzel (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0123par0106	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0122par0107	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Anyway, I'd be surprised if the Commission and the government were involved. Now, really, this 2/B Act is a jungle law! Do you know what the law of the jungle is in the language of the people? You know, it's weird. Friends, now, do you really read these articles? Mr. Minister of Environment and Forestry...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0125par0113	Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0114	If you're in charge of the forest, look at the forest. If you're in charge, take care of the forest. If the Minister of Environment and Urbanism is going to plant a forest, if he's not going to build an apartment, let's make him Minister of the Forest, make you Minister of Environment and Kent. I mean, you give the forest to the Minister of Environment and Urbanization, that's not gonna happen, people. Let him go, there's also agriculture in the forest, and we call it arable land, where is the Minister of Agriculture, Petty? I don't have that either. Where are they all connected to? The do-and-do is connected to the TOKI. Check the address, be careful.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0125par0116	Third bridge...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0117	Privatisation connects to TOKI (Beware) Law of Disaster, and urban transformation to TOKI. Forests will be built, sold, paid for, new forest will be built with money, not tied to the Minister of the Forest, but to TOKI.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0126par0118	Then let the TOKI enter Syria!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0119	Now, be careful, guys, is this the TOKI Republic, guys? Who does the TOKI depend on? To the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0127par0120	Money, money, money...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0121	What's a TOKI? TOKI can't make a tender... the local government doesn't listen to plans, doesn't listen to plans, doesn't listen to projects, doesn't listen to local governments, local elected local authorities don't recognize local national will. Who does it? TOKI does it, he builds it wherever he wants, he does it wherever he wants, and he gives it to his man, and he's capable of finding his man. Dear AKP people, why do you love so much money, why?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0128par0123	They're done!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0124	The Prime Minister's job is to be the head of the government, the cabinet. Can you tell me why the Prime Minister is a contractor as a government? That's all there is to it! Here's the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs... to do the Ministry. What's the Prime Minister doing in Mr. Veysel Bey's field? Now, let's understand that. Look, now, here, you've got the handle and the hay all mixed up. Believe me, you mixed up the law. The Prime Minister's job is to chair the cabinet of ministers. The Prime Minister privatises everything, privatizing the country's tender, its port, its waters, its rivers, its mountains, its everything, you sell it. But, brother, isn't that the TOKI government agency? Are you a publicist or a governmentist? And if you do that wrong, because it's good what they do, it's right. Look, there's an energy shortage in Argentina, and the next thing you know, oil companies are faking their energy imports, they're all getting caught up, they're nationalizing them. And then he pulls it together. That's how energy policy works in the world. What are you guys doing? You're looking at a three-center, three-acre plot, you're confiscating it, you're taking it from 50 to 70 percent, you're taking the property of a citizen, you're getting a fine, and then you're giving it away, and you're saying, "Where's 70 percent of the Gariban forest villager going to get 70 percent?" That means you can't take it, we'll find people to buy it. Stop it, it's wrong. These smart jobs, these money jobs, they're dirty jobs, they're runts. There's corruption in it, subcontractors in it, contractors in it. If the Prime Minister wants to be world leader, he doesn't deal with housing, auctions, rants, commissions. The prime minister of a country doesn't have to worry about that either. It is now called the Republic of TOKİ. Can you ask why the name of the Republic of Turkey is connected to the Republic of Turkey? Why don't you ever question him? Everything is connected to the TOKI. Now, take the authority of all the ministries and bring them to the TOKI. What about this TOKI? Does it have control? Does the House do it through the Court? He can't do it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0129par0128	No building inspections, no financial audits.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0124par0129	No building inspections, no budget audits, no spending in the budget pen, no auditing of purchases, no auditing of sale. These money jobs, these white jobs, they're dirty stuff, guys. Turkey is not a TOKI republic, let's remind him again.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0130par0132	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 10 of the Law Bill on the Sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands should be changed as follows: Supporting the Development of the Number 198 Forest Villagers and Assessing Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of the Treasure. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends 2) The amount from the Council of Ministers, which will not exceed three per cent of the revenues obtained from the implementation of this Law, will be paid to the Accounting Office of the Foundations for investment purposes by the end of the month, regardless of the overall budget revenues and expense accounts. In response to the proportion set by the Council of Ministers' decision not to exceed 90 per cent of the remaining amount, the current year's general budget (B) has special income and the rest are envisioned as revenues, depending on the income. Commission, do you agree? We commend you, Mr. President. Government, do you agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0131par0142	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0132par0143	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0130par0144	I'm reading the reason: In order for the Foundations General Directorate to perform public services in a better way, it has been intended to strengthen the amount of income obtained by the Council of Ministers to not exceed three per cent of the revenues obtained from the implementation of this Law, in order to be used by this General Directorate for investment purposes by the end of the month, regardless of the overall budget income and expense accounts. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In the accepted draft framework, I submit to your votes the article 10, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 11 that I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and to come after the declaration that there is a forest forest forest in the name of the 198 Numbered Forest Villagers, supported by the Developments of the Numbered Forest Villages, and that there should be a forest in the name of the Treasury, to be added and proposed after the declaration that there is a forest in which there is an "extreme right of altitude" in the 16th joke of the Law Bill on the sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Supporting the Developments of the 198 Numbered Forest Villagers and Evaluating Places Outside the Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of the Treasure and the Bill of Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands; According to the information and documents reported by Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, if the thirteenth article of Article 11 is hesitant to determine the actual date of ownership, "it is determined by the administration of documents given by public institutions and organisations or by public institutions and institutions, which have been issued by their applicants if that is not possible." We offer and offer to change it into form. Seyfettin Yilmaz Ali Longırmak D. Ali Torlak I'm going to read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following joke be added to Article 11 of the 198 Numbered Bill. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Vahab chooses Ilhan Demiröz Mehmet Şeker Haydar Akar Oğuz Oyan ===Early life===The amount of property taxes and mortars are not considered in the assessment of the property tax and the tax on the basis of the times and sales carried out under this Law. The value of real estate tax is considered the real value." Do you agree with the commission? We don't agree, Mr. President. Do you agree with the government?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0133par0172	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0130par0173	Mr. Oyan, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0134par0175	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, why such a motion? In fact, it was a matter of value, but if you look at it here, especially from the point of view of the forest village, at least if you take the cost of this law as the value of property tax, you take into account the principle of payability. In fact, when you sell 70 percent to 70 percent of the track, you never pay attention to the principle, you apply the same thing to rich, poor people. But here we propose that the principle of payment power at least be taken into account in terms of tax-responsibility, property tax and deed fees. I hope you'll settle for that much. My dear friends, this bill we're discussing is a completely money-making bill, which, in a purely rant-like manner, will bring about a so-called solution to the problems of the forest peasant. In 2003, when we discussed the amendment of the 169th and 170th amendments of the Constitution during the 22nd Legislature, we submitted three proposals from the commissions. One of them was the free age of this land, of this land, of this forest village. The second, as much as the income from other areas, including housing, villas, tourist facilities, etc., whatever it was, was lost -- it was then called 500,000 hectares, and now at 410,000 hectares -- it was our second proposal to plant the area, and the third was to complete the forest cadastro from income. We had three proposals, and you said no to all three of them, and that constitutional amendment didn't happen. Now nine years have passed, and you come up with the same rhubarb, money-maker approach. So all you care about is patching up budget deficits in the first place, and then the second one is going to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, of course, to the TOKI. Now, we're talking about a budget that only gives 5.5 billion deficits in March. The income from here will probably be enough to cover the budget deficit of this year, probably only 2012. So you're thinking of putting a year's budget deficit on the back of a forest peasant. Does that fit in justice, justice? What kind of equality is that in front of taxes? The Constitution has Article 73, the principle of payment power. Where is the justice of the Justice and Development Party, of course, and where is the retreat? This law has the support of the development of forest villagers. Is there anything concrete in this bill, for God's sake, about the development of forest villagers? At the very least, it's within 10 percent of the village transfers, and there's stuff to be spent on, and there's nothing concrete. However, the peasant's demand here is not to be supported by the income from here, nor by the forest peasant. He does not demand that we be provided. The demand of the forest peasant is simple: if it's worth it, I can't buy it, so other people take it away from me. It's like an indirect tax, the principle of payment power, regardless of its value, and there are many examples that I know. For example, a village example of 10 liras to 80 liras per square meter, a person with a 10-acre field is unable to pay for it, let alone 70 per cent, even if you say 10 per cent of it, in the face of payments of 100 billion to 800 billion per square meter. I mean, you're really making fun of the jungle peasant here. In fact, it would be a means of deforestationing forest villagers and adding them to migratory caravans to new cities. We don't think this bill will do you any good. So if you want to do a good job, at least say yes to this motion, and then I think you should call off the bill and reevaluate the price issue. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0135par0180	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly A draft bill on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands by Supporting the Developments of the 198 Numbered Forest Villagers and Appreciating Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name; The thirteenth joke of Article 11 is determined by the administration of documents given by public institutions and organisations or public institutions given to public institutions or organisations if the rights of the rights should be hesitated to determine the actual date, according to information and documents reported by the Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, if that is not possible. We offer and offer to change it into form. D. Ali Torlak (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President? Government?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0136par0191	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0135par0192	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0137par0194	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. When I began this bill, we stated that we were in the effort of solving this problem as three groups in cooperation, in accordance with the general expectations of the nation, and that we would vote yes as the National Movement Party, but we insist that: Look, the name of this bill is supporting the Development of the Forest Villages, which unfortunately does not exist here. Now, this place, these places, the places lost from the forest, must be brought back to the forest. How should it be won? So the resources here were supposed to be used to rehabilitate our forests with the development of our forest villagers living in the forest, and to increase our forest existence, but I'm looking back at the motions that have been made over and over and over again, our forest services and forests are not part of this bill. Now, we haven't seen a statement from Mr. Secretary. So as the owner of the bill, the Minister of the Forest has been coming since the commissions, and today the Minister of the Forest is here, but we haven't faced a serious and satisfying explanation. I'm expecting some statements from the Minister, some questions. Now, look, the forest service is an organization with about a hundred and seventy-five years of tradition. At the point of erosion, at the point of dune deforestation, at the point of protection of the forests, he performed historical tasks. Despite all the pressures, despite the migrations, 50 percent of Istanbul today is the result of forest workers' self - sacrificing work, if the forests are still covered.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0138par0198	The water depends on the forestmen and the water.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0137par0199	Yeah. Now, this ministry is called the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and about 75-80 percent of its busy area is about forests, but unfortunately, there are no forestmen in the Forest and Waterworks Ministry, as there are no forest villagers in this bill. Now, I'm asking you, valued lawmakers: how are you going to develop sustainable forestry policy in a place where there are no foresters? I've said it many times, believing in the minister's goodwill, believing in his sincerity, that you may be experts in water, but, for God's sake, consider these forestmen, so if you want to bring them to the authorities, bring people who are close to your political perspective, but bring the forestmen. There are no forest engineers on the forest floor, so where are we going with a ministry like this? Where are we going with this?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0139par0202	We'll get there.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0137par0203	And after that, unfortunately, in this bill, we can't find anyone to defend the rights of forestmen, forests, and forest villagers. Now, look, from here, I'm going to list four or five questions in a row for the Minister to answer, and I'm going to wait for an answer. Mr. Secretary, as long as you don't answer these questions, there are questions in public. Go forth, and answer with truth. One of them, I told you in my last speech, was that when you were saving your income in the woods, when you were making your way into the 20-25 trillion forests in Kemerburgaz, you gave it to the Metropolitan City Hall, and a man who was supposed to be your relative, whose last name is the same as yours, you brought it to the head of this land dump. So, who here provided the runt? I want an answer to that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0140par0206	He hasn't given it to me in two years.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0137par0207	My second question is, I made a statement about the Veteran compound, look...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0141par0208	How many points?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0137par0209	Listen to me for a second. They have a report on the Gazi compound in the Plan and Budget Commission, so I said, are you going to give it to someone, turn it from level 1 to level 3? There's the answer in the reports, you can see: we're going to make some arrangements here to withstand the earthquake. Yes, now... and then he said that he was the prime minister here. So, I ask you, how many trillions have you invested in the Veteran compound during this time? If it were Mr. Elitaş, why did you spend tens of trillion dollars on buildings that would be destroyed while you were preparing the infrastructure of the poor poor, the strange guru, the unfinished orphan? My third question is, you've opened 16 district managers. I'm willing to argue with you on every platform, give me one good reason. You've opened 16 departments in the form of obelisk, dry, state your reason for opening one. Again, why did you give away the land of this Center for Justice and Development? Explain it so that both your own MPs know about it and the public knows about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Again, at your ministry, you raised the advisors from 28 to 130, 130. What do these counselors do, and where do you send them to in Turkey? I expect the Minister to answer those questions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0142par0217	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the addition of the declaration that there is a reserve forest in the name of Treasure after the development of the 198 Numbered Forest Villagers and after the declaration that there will be an altitude right to be established in Article 11 of the Law Charter on the sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasures and that there will be a protected forest in the name of the Treasury. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends Is the commission in? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0143par0226	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0144par0227	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0142par0228	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to be written more clearly, without hesitation, by adding the quality of the conservation forest to the joke's arrangement.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0145par0231	Mr. President, he read so fast, we don't understand anything, sir. Is that a thing? I mean, can you read it so fast to get it out of the public eye? Let him read it properly.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0142par0232	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I submit Article 11 to your votes within the accepted framework of the motion: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions in Article 12 - you read it a little slower - I'm going to read it in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th draft of the current 198 row. Article III (3) of the third article. We propose that the statement of the city and places within the area of the mujavir area be removed from its joke, and the description of the "5 thousand meters" in the same joke be replaced at a distance of 1,000 meters, and the word "100 meters" in the same joke. Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Seyfetttin Yılmaz Mehmet Şandir Oktay Özturk Kemalettin Yılmaz Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 12 of the 198 Order Numbered Bill, which is discussed, we propose that the following nine jokes and other jokes be identified accordingly. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Mehmet Şeker Vahaap Selects According to this Law, agricultural land that is sold cannot be used for ten years for non-advised purposes. This matter is written in the house of the deed. At the end of this period, the use of non-agricultural purpose will be granted permission from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." I'll read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 12th article of the Charter on the sale of the Treasury's Agriculture Lands, as well as the Supporting of the Developments of the Numbered Forest Villagers in the Name of the Treasure, and the Evaluation of Places Outside the Forest Borders; A) The first sentence of his second joke is "eli." It's "seven." changed to form, B) In the 10th joke, the introduction of the declaration of "Marine Ili, Beytree and Kale counties" within the borders of Beyrek and Kale districts, and the change of the expression of those "outlying the municipality and the mujavir area" in the last sentence of the same joke, c) Adding the following joke to the end, We supply and offer. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Yüksel Nurcan Dalbudak (12) By users of land whose property belongs to the General Directorate of Agriculture, which is currently used by real people, by Konya Ili, Sarajevo County, the Department of Agriculture of Guests and Adana, Ceyhan County, Ceyhan Management Directorate, and by those who are on the basis of the sale of 70 per cent of the current cost and the terms of the sale of these fields are made directly by the General Manager of this law within six months of its implementation, and by the record of the five-year excise price of the Reciprocution Administration of Guests. The land may be sold directly to users who have more than one user and if the land which will be sold directly to their users falls below the indivisible size specified by Law 5403; the land may be sold directly to their users if they do not fall below the indivisible size specified by Law 5403." Do you agree with the commission? We commend you, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0146par0263	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0142par0264	Would you read the reason? A) is the second sentence of the 12th article of the bill, at the end of the first sentence." It's "seven." By changing it into form, the bill was intended to be preserved in the way our government had directed it. B) In addition, they do not move only as part of the tenth joke of the 12th article of the bill, but only because it includes the unmovable areas within the borders of Denizli Ili, Beytree District, Pines and Republic Quarters and Pınarönu, Sazak and Redtree Villages and Kale County, and the "resulting areas of this joke" and "exploiting the limits of the 12th article" of the bill has been made clear to the top of its 10th joke, in order to change the aim of the "migrations" and "inside the borders of the cities of the sea ibare, Beytree and Castle County" and "exts" and "extributions" of the same joke" and in the last sentence. On the other hand, Konya Ili, a member of the Department of Agriculture (TIGEM) of Agriculture (TIGEM), has been declared part of the cadastro work held in the region of the Council of Guests' Agriculture Administration in the 1950s, while some of the properties of the land have been registered in the name of TİGEM due to objections made during the Kadastro. The real people in the villages where these lands are located have continued to use the land as their own, and they have filed charges against the TIGEM of cancellation and registration cases, which have ended in favour of TİGEM, and have filed restraining orders against these people in TİGEM. Following the outcome of cases in favour of TIGEM, these areas have been leased by TIGEM users. In this case, 157 people have been leased for five years. 238 cases have been filed by the TIGEM against those who use these fields, and according to the results of these cases, lease agreements are under way. By TIGEM, the cadastro detection has never been able to use land in any way, and the land is still being used by citizens. Again, Adana Ili, 159 islands in the use of the Çukurova Agriculture Management Directorate in Ceyhan County, all of the area number 1 is 8,180,879,34 m2, and this land is registered to the TİGAM under Law 3646. However, the 4,665,712 m2 of this land is used by TIGEM and is located within the area integrity of TIGEM. The other 3.514.667 square feet is out of the use of TEGEM. This part is saved in Yeşilova village (09 people). It has been used for many years by neighbouring villagers, both the Department of the Guests' Agriculture and the regions of Çukurova Agricultural Enterprises, which have not been in real control in any way. These lands are land that does not corrupt the integrity of the businesses mentioned. It is considered a social problem for both businesses to become tenants in villages which are borderline neighbouring and whose income levels are low, which have been in fact used for years. It was founded in 1983 by the construction of State Production Farms, Hara and Cowhouses under a roof, and its property is owned by these organizations and Treasury, and its use of these organizations has been transferred to TİGEM. The two problems related to the operation, both used by local villagers in the process of registering and maintaining the land on behalf of TIGAM, have been overlooked. The TIGEM will not suffer any loss of production because it does not actually use these fields, but it will also have positive relations with the inhabitants of the village. Despite the fact that a rights policy was not born in favour of those who use these fields legally, their perception that the land they use is being taken from them by the state should be considered a legitimate and socially justified response, even if it is not legal. For reasons explained, it has been intended to end with a direct sale of the land to its users, with a joke added to the end of Article 12 of the Bill, and to prevent the victims of those who have been using TIGEM for many years, and the conflicts between those who have been using the property of the TİGEM and those who have used the property of the TİGEM. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to Article 12 of the 198 Order Numbered Bill, which is discussed, we propose that the following nine jokes and other jokes be identified accordingly. According to this Law, agricultural land that is sold cannot be used for ten years for non-advised purposes. This matter is written in the house of the deed. At the end of this period, the use of non-agricultural purpose will be granted permission from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism." M. Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0147par0287	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0142par0288	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0148par0289	Mr. Ilhan Demiröz.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0142par0290	Mr. Irony, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I swear, you're the highest applause the CHP Group has ever had. Here you go. I'm keeping track...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0149par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the motion that we've submitted in Article 12 of Bill 198. I salute you all with respect and love. Dear lawmakers, we see the AKP government's ability to include, as always, non-law-related issues within the law has once again included the sale of agricultural areas within the 2/B proposal. Why do I say it? Although there are 410,000 hectares of land within 2/B, the amount of land owned by the treasury is 925,000 hectares. Dear friends, only 4.7 per cent of the 2/B land is built, and 33.2 per cent are used for agricultural purposes. In 300,000 hectares, there is no use for any purpose. What do I want to say here? It's not known what they'll be able to do with the land and the land that they'll be able to buy when the design of the treasury's farmland comes to pass. More importantly, after the sale, there was no regulation on whether or not they would farm. It will not be used for ten years after the sale of our proposal. We ask that the declaration be placed on the deed. This is what we want, my dear friends, for the sale of these properties... it's already being sold, the national estate is already selling them. By putting it in this law, it will fall into the hands of others if our peasants who are in a very difficult situation today don't buy it. At least for ten years, we need to make sure that it's not used for non-foreign purposes by putting the deed on the deed. I say this for you: Every day we lose the land of agriculture by industrialization, by urbanization, by occupation, by erosion. Once again, I want to underline how important it is to protect agricultural areas in accordance with the growing need for populations and food, given the hundreds of thousands of years in the formation of one square centimetre of soil. Dear friends, I'd like to come to another matter from here. I served as the group chairman of the city's general assembly in Burma. We used to work on commissions there with our friends, just like here at the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission. We've expressed that by considering the altitude of these rail prices in the lower commission of the Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission and other commissions, it's 50 percent, but you're taking them up to 70 percent again in accordance with a telephone or instruction that comes today without any respect for the work, the work, the work, the work of the colleagues on this commission. Then what's our fault, our friends from the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission? Is that supposed to be the price of our work? I'd like to say who's in charge of ignoring these friends. And I'm moving on, guys. And again, I want to say that these 2/B properties are related to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, as my predecessors have expressed. Yes, what will become of urban transformation, as stated in Article 9 of the Law of Disaster? If you make a decision about land in these agricultural areas, about the Agricultural Law, about the Law on Land Protection, about the Law on the Coast, about the Law on Mera, you have no way of contesting them. So wherever you want, TOKI will do whatever he wants, provided he doesn't have to look first class, second class, watered, irrigated. This level, this kind of bill is wrong, this kind of bill... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that if the law is passed, our farmers will be in great trouble, and I offer you all my respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0150par0305	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 12th draft of the current 198 row. Article III (3) of the third article. We propose that the statement of the city and places within the area of the mujavir area be removed from its joke, and the description of the "5 thousand meters" in the same joke be replaced at a distance of 1,000 meters, and the word "100 meters" in the same joke. Erkan Akçay (Manisa) and his friends Is the commission in? We can't participate, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0151par0314	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0150par0315	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0152par0317	Mr. President, I have been promised a motion on Article 12 of Bill 198. I salute your honorable committee. Dear lawmakers, first of all, I want to say that this 12th article has nothing to do with the entire and 2/B land, this is a separate private arrangement. This article makes some changes in the Law on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands 4070. Law 4070 is a law that has been in effect since 1995, and although it is currently demanding, there are many demands that have not been completed and the process is ongoing. According to Law 4070, some 26,000 pieces have been sold since 1995, and some 36,000 per cent and some 245 million liras of treasured farmland have been sold. Now, with this 12th article, sales opportunities are being brought in in better terms in terms of buyers. Thus, at first glance and fundamentally, it is possible to find the provisions in Article 12 to be positive, but this time, a significant portion of the old - time land area feels somewhat deluded or taken for a fool. The most important weakness of Law 4070 is that those who use the treasury are unable to determine their situation well, and the conditions for using the land are not considered. As there are those who use these lands from their ancestors and grandfathers, there are also those who somehow buy them before they are registered for the treasure. In these lands, as there are those who have been sent to the treasure because of the deeds of the deed, there are also extremely large numbers of jinn-eyed treasure invaders. Those who use the treasury's farmland have poor farmers with no land, and there are wealthy people in their properties. In fact, this law should have had an application that would provide a certain amount of agricultural land for the poor and the needy farmer who had no land to plant. However, there is no such thing in these arrangements. So let me solve the problem 2/B. We have a obligation to act in accordance with the principles of equality and justice as we rearrange the sale of treasured agricultural land to users. ▪ It is not possible to say that equality is at 50 percent cost for everyone. However, with a motion from the ruling party a while ago, the price of 50 percent was changed to 70 rayics per cent. So we're still having second thoughts, and we find that incredibly wrong. So this doesn't take into account the condition of farmers who don't use rights or self-interest, who are in need, who use treasured farmland when they don't have any land. Equality is the practice of the same rules of law for those in the same legal position. If he is in a different legal position, they need to apply a different legal situation. Now, when we compare the 12th article brought in with Law 4070 in effect, we see that the old arrangement had a decree that it could be sold directly over the full price, over 70 percent of the current arrangement. Again, the requirement for the purchase of the land of the treasured land of Law 4070 is reduced to three years with the 12th article, five years prior to 2002. Again, in the 7th article of 4070... it is necessary to pay 20 per cent of the original loans for the savings of rent and wages to be made in order to be sold. With this arrangement... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...that the cost will not be taken, and that the cost of which is due will be abandoned.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0153par0330	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0152par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0153par0334	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Members of parliament, there is a motion for an open vote on the 12th article of the bill to read the motion and call for signatures: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of the relevant bill be carried out in the form of an open vote. Mehmet Shandır? Here. D. Ali Torlak? Here. Celal Adan? Here. You did, Yilmaz? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu? Here. A scholar's Light? Here. Ali Öz? Here. Murat Basesgioğlu? Here. Necati Özensoy? Here. Sumerian Oral? Here. Mustafa Kalaycı? Here. Lütfü Türkkan? Here. Amin Çınar? Here. Faruk Bal? Here. Yusuf Halaçoglu? Here. Erkan Akçay? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri? Here. Ali Longırmak? Here. Mehmet Erdogan? Here. You got it, Lightning? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. An open vote will be carried out by electronic device, according to the decision taken. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The clear vote of Article 12 of the 198 Bill of Law: [[x]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man So, matter accepted. The votes of the substances in the first section are complete. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second chapter covers all jokes from Article 13 to Article 10 of Article 1 of Article 13 and Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Article 1 of Speaking on behalf of groups on the second chapter, Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0154par0380	Mr. President, I present to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on the second chapter of Law Bill 198; I salute your grand delegation. The 198-line bill we discussed has three main elements in terms of the land: the first is the 1st amendment (a) and (b) of the 2nd Article of the Law of the Forest, 6831. Under the bill, the land covered by 2/A is being saved by the Forest General Directorate. These lands are requested to be assigned to the settlement of forest villagers. The 2/B land is being saved by the Ministry of Finance and will be offered for sale by the Ministry for the price. The Law of Forests (b) envisions the removal of the 2nd article (b) of the area of the city, town and village structures from the forest borders, with areas that have lost the quality of science and science before 31/12/1981. With this bill, these areas are primarily available to users and other individuals at 70 per cent of the price. A similar arrangement was broken down by the Constitutional Court on the grounds that places that were removed from the forest for the sake of the treasure could not be sold, it was built and neglected to the forest villagers. The National Movement Party believes that the part of the bill's 2/B area may reach its goal in the absence and removal of its wrong aspects. We need to accept the fact that the Constitution cannot comply with the Constitution without the provision of Articles 169 and 170. Both the issue of the property of the state forests in the second joke of Article 169 of the Constitution, as well as the provision of areas of the forest that have not been used as a forest in terms of science and science in the first joke of Article 170. In this respect, as the National Movement Party, we would like to share with you that we are both prepared to co-operate for the bill and primarily for the Constitutional Amendment and that this bill can reach its goal through a constitutional amendment, that it will be legal. On the other hand, the price for land 2/B is 70 per cent of the rail price. This ratio may be reasonable for high-profile places and high-profile uses. For example, if people who built a house on a 2/B land like Istanbul put a house on the property, a villa, the price may be reasonable, but for our farmer in Çukurova, Antalya, Mersin, Black Sea, for 50/B status, for 50 years, the number of narcissist gardens, olive groves, nutsites will not be paid, nor will it be reasonable. Then it would be a necessary right to reduce the price rate to 15 to 25 per cent, to certain reductions in the sale of forest villagers. Otherwise, our villager, who has not been able to pay 70 percent of the price for the 2/B land he's been using for years, can't buy it and the Finance Ministry will sell it to another person. Let the judge solve the conflicts and other problems that will come after that. When the road is near and there is a time, we must do it properly. The second arrangement of this bill is the sale of treasured farmland. As of 31/12/2011, sales are provided for those who have rented or used treasured farmland for the past three years. The Turkish farmer is living in the most troubled time in his history. Because of the wrong agricultural policies that have been going on for ten years, the number of farmers' families is increasing. You're going to sell the land they've used for years and years and years, including land that they've used to produce with 70 percent of the price of Rayic's price. It's naive to think that they can buy land at this rate, while the farmer can barely make a living or even be left with dry onions. We believe that the rate of Rayic's price must be moved much lower than 70 per cent. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the third issue the bill brings about the land is the arrangement for land areas. One of the key elements of Turkish culture is the tradition of going to the plateau, which has been a subject of research in Anatolia for centuries. Especially in hot zones, when it was necessary to escape global warming and urban life, heat and noise, the Turkish man took refuge in the plateau. In high places and mostly in the forest, the edge of the plateaus became a city-like settlement with growing populations and popularity over the years. During a certain period of the year, he even offered public services, state health services, security services with the gendarmes, mosques and imams, religious services, land roads, electricity, water, sewers, and public transportation services. But one thing has not been arranged so far, and that's the area of the forest where people live on the plateaus, where there are some public facilities. It is a crime to build buildings and facilities which I count on the forest land under the 17th Article of Forest Law 6831 and Article 93. Before the founding of the Republic, before the execution of the Law of the Forest, the existence of pedestrianism has become a crime. In this frame, the Black Sea, the Aegean, and the Mediterranean Sea, tens of thousands of people who own the house have become criminals. At the centre of my constituency, Osmaniye is a legal problem in Turkey's southeastern province of Turkey. The political institution, which has been applied as the solution office, has not yet made an attempt to legalise the problem. Mr. Veysel Eroglu, as Minister, has dealt with these complaints in Osmaniye as in many places. In fact, although they had promised, the issue of this bill was not included in the first state of the House. Mr. Mehmet Shandir and I have discussed our proposal of the law on foot and crosswalking, which we have provided them with, and for the first time, with the consent of the President of the Commission, matters such as libertarianism, the area of the crossbow have been included in the 13th article of this bill. At this point, I would like to express that I know a debt of gratitude to the Minister and the Commissioner and to the esteemed members of the Commission, to the precious bureaucrats of the ministries. However, the joke added to Article 17 of Forest Law 6831, referring to the 13th article on the area of this plateau, is not an arrangement that solves the problem radically. Unlike our proposal for the cross-country and the law of extremism, the arrangement within this bill stipulates that all buildings and facilities in the areas declared by the Council of Ministers and the area of the cross-country -- including those allowed -- will be taken to the headquarters of the Forest General Directorate, where the users of these buildings and facilities will be given rent on the basis of the rail price, according to the State Proposal Act 2886. So the buildings and facilities that exist on the plateaus are included in the inventory of the Forest General Directorate, and these buildings and facilities are leased by the forest administration by the inventor of contracting Act 2886. This arrangement does not mean the exact solution to the problem. First of all, no one is willing to hand over their house to the forest administration and live there as a tenant on a plateau that's been used for three or four generations. Moreover, the tender must be open to all, and competition must be provided under the Law of Dealing. It can be rented under forest administration. No one can guarantee that its user will receive the property under the terms of openness and competition. We'll give the other one to its user by tender, guarantee. If you say that, it's called a bidding act. On the other hand, if the forest administration can sublet it through a tender, it may not be able to rent out some buildings or facilities. Who, how, according to what? What if, by law, the terms of the tenant and the landlord change one day, the administration wants to change its tenant? Respected lawmakers, these are the shortcomings of this new regulation that I can see. In our proposal for the Law on Yayla and Yayla, there were indications that the problem would be resolved. First of all, I must say that under Article 169 of the Constitution, it is possible that the land of the forest, which is not the subject of property, has a foothold and a footwork grounds for its home. As much as the sale of 2/B land raises a question in our mind, it is appropriate to establish the upper rights within the framework of Article 826 of Turkish Civil Law 4721 and the ongoing Articles. The Civil Law provisions I'm talking about allow for an altitude rights facility without property and remove all the problems I'm talking about upstairs. This issue will be in accordance with the Constitution's will and the will of the citizens. Thus, all pedestrians who are at peace with the forest and at peace with the foresteers will express their gratitude to the Parliament, the MPs, for solving the problem. If we make this arrangement legal in its current form, believe me, we'll be serving it before it mixes oil, salt, flour, and cooks it. Let's present it to the citizen, not as raw, dough, but as a creamy lump. With these feelings and thoughts, I wish the bill to be a blessing, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0155par0397	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Osman MP. Here you go, Mr. Captain.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0156par0401	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the second chapter of the 198 rows of Law Bill 2/B. I salute you all. Congressmans, we've been fighting for the solution of this 2/B/B/ for the last ten years, and we say this problem with gangrene should be solved. In the 2002 elections, we promised the people's Republican People's Party and the AKP would solve the problem. We promised the public. After the 2002 elections, we, the CHP, said, "Let's give money to the one who planted the land, mowed it, built a house on it, who owned the deed since the Ottomans, or the seven families." The AKP said, "We're going to shoot the bird of tea with the stone of tea, we're going to sell it for $25 billion." Did he say that? He did. In 2004, former Forest Minister Osman Pepe showed an empty deed to Kepez, and what is this? The deed. What is this place? Empty. Now we'll write your name after the election. He said, "But it's not written until today." We were going to go to the public and get this 2/B out, but the Republican People's Party blocked it. Did they say that? Dendi. Citizens with problems 2/B had to say, "Let this problem be solved whether it's money or not." We said to the peasant of the forest, "Don't do it, don't do it, you'll be miserable." ▪ You can't pay these bills. The government will disgrace you, and sell you to the rich, and the religion of the government, and the faith of the money. We couldn't explain it. Now it turns out who's thinking of the forest peasant and who's thinking about the money. The commission reduced the cost from 70 per cent to 50 per cent. Mr. Secretary, we don't understand what it's like to go back to 70 percent now. We can't pay 50 percent of it anyway. How will the wretched villagers now pay 70 percent of it, and I don't understand it. My dear friends, the Yörık are standing at Antalya on 2/B. From the village of Değirmendere of Alanya, and other forest villages, from the Ulupınar of Kemük, from Beycık, from Deer Fountain of Deer, from vehalhal Kharışılı to Gazipaşa, from Yakarklar, from the woodmakers, Turkmens, muhtars, all standing, and Rayic is loud. The forest villagers -- they came here in the last days -- again, the muhtars are here -- not only from Antalya, but from the whole of the Toros, from Antalya, from Mersin, from Adana, from Osmaniye, from Maraş, from Malatya, from Bitlis, from Malatya, to all the villagers in the Toros. Their fear is that their homes and their homes will be taken away from them; they say we have no power to buy them with money. Look what an 80-year-old aunt says: I have nine children. In 2000, when we had neighbors buying deeds to 2/B sites for $350,000, they were stopped, and now they want to be sold for $35,000. Is that a response from God? We're barely making a living. We pay tribute to Aunt Ayþe, the Ottoman deed of 1912, and kiss her hand. It says: I have a deed from the Ottomans. Well, my dear friends, why don't we accept the Ottoman deed while we boast of the Ottomans in everything? I mean, I don't get it! Dear friends, again, in the village of Alanya Elikesik, the acres of land of 2/B are between 40 and $120,000. No matter how many discounts the peasant can get. He wants to give it to the villager for free, or the property tax value, the villagers. Our countrymen in Alania, who have cancelled their deeds in Kepez, are standing again. Members of parliament, for the Yörüks, for the Woodmakers, for the Turkmen, for the horse, for the wife, for the gun, for the land is as important as the land. I mean, the mountain, the stone, the plain, it's been gone for years, and it's got the size of a handful, and it's home, and it doesn't want to be taken away from it. So you don't have money, you can't buy this place, I'll sell it to someone else. It doesn't make sense. We're saying that people who are already tired of migrating die and don't give up their homeland. Let's not cause blood to come out when we say we're going to solve 2/B. Members of parliament, the 2/b/b/b land of Unakutan, and the 2/b land of the Yörüks in Toros, must not be held together. It's not the same place where the factory was built, where the villa was built. My dear friends, Jean Jacques Rousseau said: "Who surrounded a land with a bush? This is mine." He said, "This is his private property." It's not what the Yörıks did, it's not what Jean Jacques Rousseau said; they took refuge in the forest out of desperation, out of necessity; otherwise they didn't invade the forest, they are the owners of the forest, they are the protectors of the state, they are the keepers of the forest. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to have the Minister of Finance here -- because there's a money business here, Mr. Minister, you're already giving -- not a tax trafficker, not a plastic invoiceer, not a AKP-rich man; they don't have ships; they don't have quarryes, they don't have HESESTs, they don't have mines, they don't have ships that destroy Antalya. And they had goats, and sheep, and camels, and because of you they were finished, and now they shall be taken away from them the land that is the size of a handful. These people are barely making a living. The village of Toros says: "We voted for the AKP, we will teach the lessons from now on. " They are very angry, I tell you, my friends. I assume you know they've recently cut off Antalya-Isparta. My dear friends, let us not puff up the buttermilk, nor put out the sickle, nor put out the fire, nor sell out his land, nor his land, nor sell it again to them. Let's not piss off the locals. Ataturk did not say in vain that the state of the Republic of Turkey is secure if it smokes in a single tent in Toros. [[A round of applause from CHP and MPP rows]] Dear friends, the Yöreks say: "We also ignore those who ignore our republic and our Ataturk. What did Edebali say? Let's keep a man alive so that the government can live. We, for him, live the forest villagers in Toros, so that the government can live. You're going to say, "Is that okay?" Sure. Let's give it to him without money. You're going to say, "Is that okay?" Sure. Why? If it weren't for the CHP, I think we should give these to our forest villagers, just as you would have given Israel, which is 510km long land on the Syrian border. Dear friends, forest villagers are the keepers of the forest. There must be a price to pay for this guardship. The land in Toros, not in the strait, must be given without money, not on the coast, or by tax returns. The government has already sold CITs, sitts, schools, and now it's time for the forest. In our Antalya, there are 45,000 hectares, 2/b, one third of which is deedal -- the Kepez region -- that is, 30,000 hectares. The cadastro of 26,000 hectares of 30,000 hectares has been made, ready to be sold immediately, 100,000, 120,000, 130,000, but there's no takers. Sir, there are 3,000 hectares of cadastro work going on. Some 15,000 hectares are property of individuals, while some of them have 2/B deeds on them, so we say they'll be removed by law, given without money. Part of it will be a mistrial and a cease-and-desist lawsuit, which will be good for them. In some cases, his case will be over, and he will be returned to his owners without money, as in Antalya Kepez Mazidadağı and Logist. The state that sold the location of our citizens in Kepez, the state that gave us their deeds, the state that cancelled their deeds! What's more, the treasure has filed charges against him for the disqualification of the deeds he's sold and paid for, and the deeds have been revoked without returning the price. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The 40-50-year-old deeds left by our citizen's ancestors have been cancelled.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0157par0420	Thank you, Mr. Captain.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0156par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. Guys, this is an important issue, so it shouldn't be finished anytime soon, and I think this 2/B issue is going to cause a lot of serious problems for the government. Thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0158par0425	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Iron Steel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0159par0428	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I salute you all on behalf of myself and my party. I'd like to share my thoughts on the second chapter of Law Bill 198. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, law and law are brought out to meet some legitimate, democratic demands of changing social dynamics, some of the rights they need to be guaranteed politically and legally. In this sense, one: the social need must be the axis, the social need should be the focus. Two: It has to be in a non-compatible quality and property that corresponds with universal law, which parallels itself with it. If we approach these two parameters, or take into account these two parameters, it is possible to see the paradox, the contradiction, the inconsistencies, when we approach the existing, the proposed law, or the proposed law. It is clear that what is meant to be done in this sense is not a very legitimate quality and a feature. Mr. President, the bill of law for the transformation of forest areas is actually the prerequisite for the urban transformation project or the bill and the proposal of the endangered areas. I mean, there's an approach that can mean that we all have common value and property -- a field based on the self-interest of society and the public -- to put some of it in the focus of relationships, to pursue an understanding that will serve it. In that sense, I would like to express why we object on the four main axiss or parameters of the bill that is intended to be made or intended to be brought in. I'm going to try to explain why we're behind in a law that three other political parties or three of our Parliament's political parties have agreed to agree on. First of all, what you call forest is the most fundamental parameter of the ecosystem, which is much older than human history. The forest is the main source of the balance of oxygen-carbondioxide, water-air circulation and balance to reshape and sustain life, but also the life-forming organism that it holds. Especially when we as Turkey have the potential for the latitude and longitude that we're dealing with, which is 80 percent forest, given the qualities of our areas of forest that we've come to today, we're dealing with a problem like protecting what we have, losing what we have, and making it into society, but what we're doing here is we want to turn it into something that's going to be converted into new urban spaces. It's not right, it's not moral and it's not human. Secondly, dialogue and negotiations, which are the basic parameters of today's democracy, have been ignored before or after this proposal is prepared, and before moving to Parliament. The scientist, occupational rooms, trade unions, the ideas of society dynamics that will be affected by this law, is troubled by the approach to this problem, which is literally far from meeting the needs of society, regardless of its proposals, its problems, despite the kind of perception and understanding that authoritarian and centrist state understanding has done in the past. The day after tomorrow, we may find ourselves facing a much more serious political problem, or we may face a difficult position and situation in the face of history because of the fact that we are addressing the problem with so many palliative solutions from the original work of the legislature. Third: Since the House opened, building a democratic and civil constitution has been on the way with the Compromise Commission at the point of building it, and in the next few months the software will begin, while this and similar law proposals, as a whole of society, or laws, should be based on the spirit of the constitution that we want to build, co-directive, parallel, feeding it, feeding it, feeding it. But we're going to make a democratic, civil constitution. We're saying that we're going to create a place, a place, a place, which is dependent on the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, then TOKI, the Council of Ministers, and the Prime Minister. Where will the democratic constitution be? How will this law offer with this democratic Constitution be in harmony? In other words, why should we sign a situation where even the 69th and 70th Articles of the Constitution, which we agree on at the point of antidemocratic, which we want to eliminate, contradict what we want to do, so it is possible to go back to the Constitutional Court as it was in the past? However, what we, in fact, and most of all, have stood on, have been described as the forest peasant who has been victimised for many years, is that we are going to exploit the expectations and hopes of society's dynamics, that we are going to do their expectations, that we're going to do their expectations, that we're going to actually do what we want to do, that we're going to do, that we're going to put more value on the shorelines, our coastal cities, and that we're going to have an international tourism open space, and that we're going to put the international financial institutions and a part of what they want to do. In this sense, we will have victimized the victim for the second time by selling them over 70 percent of the rail price, in which 9 million indoor villagers have no interest, run, developed, and converted these fields into vital spaces that they have developed. And we're not going to be satisfied with this -- the bond, the garden, the peanuts, the nuts, the olive grove, or the designated 2/B areas -- is also important for the implementation of inputs, which are also important for the preservation and development of these fields, which are also important for the maintenance of individual animals and agriculture, as well as for humanity. We are not only signing the sale of the lost forest areas, but we will have lost the fields of capital, which are still in the service of finance, and we will have lost the fields that are the common heritage of our future, by providing them with the transfer of the garden, the nuts, the olive grove, the pasture, and the pasture to the treasure, and the sale of all of us through the treasure. Such an important phenomenon, such an important problem, is too valuable and precious to fit in a few hours. It's a subject that needs to be refocused and discussed. With these feelings, I salute you once again with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0160par0441	Thank you, Mr. Steel. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Osmaniye MP Suat Önal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0161par0444	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the AK PARK Group on the second part of the Bill of Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands, on the Supporting of Forest Villagers Developments and the Evaluation of Places Out of Forest Borders in the Name of the Treasure. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with this bill that we're discussing, we'll be resolving an important issue that has been in conflict with the state and the nation for years and is a chronicized problem. This law, which is also perceived in public as the ▪2/B Act, is a government-to-state peacekeeping project, which has been in conflict with the state for decades. Again, this law is for the nation. The state is for the nation instead of understanding it is a reflection of its understanding. From now on, our citizens will be able to take in the areas where they farm, live, see their children as their future. That is why, as representatives of our beloved nation, I would like to express that we also have the peace of having fulfilled our responsibility to our people by stressing that we have all done such an important service to pass such a legal arrangement through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has responded to our nation's expectations and has met their persecution. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, this law applies to the extremization of all areas that have lost full forest quality before 31 December 1981, on behalf of the treasure. The problem of property, which has been discussed over the years as a social problem, has brought the state and the citizen to a negative confrontation. When 2/B becomes law, the problem will be solved, the conflicts between the state and its rightful owner will end. By this law, the property of the property since the past period will be returned to the rightful owners of the land and farmland that have been cancelled and turned into 2/B for various reasons. There will be twice as much wooding and foresting as the 2/B areas sold by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. So the law 2/B is not the narrowing of the forest area, but the opposite, it's the enrichment of forest spaces by doubling forestry activity in exchange for selling the rights to those who have lost forest property. As always, by moving man to the center of politics, let man live in the state. The revenues from the sale of areas identified as 2/B will again be spent on the development of our country and the creation of new young forest fields. I should also point out that it is a good thing for opposition parties to contribute to the solution of this problem by offering the law to solve this social problem. Precious lawmakers, 10 percent of the revenues to be made by selling 2/B land will be used to create new forest areas and to develop forest villages, while 90 per cent of the remaining will be used to build modern cities with urban transformation projects in the entire country against corrupt urbanization, which is our country's bleeding wound. In short, a major social problem will be solved, while the resources will increase our country's forest capacity and create healthy housing, healthy cities. Again, the 13th article of this law, and the problems that have been present as a chronic case, have been solved, and our citizens have been spared from committing crimes against the state. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, as you know, in many parts of the summer, where the temperature is very high, pedestrianism is a culture, and it has a history of many, many years. However, this cultural way of life has become a necessity to maintain a healthy life rather than an arbitrary one. In the Mediterranean Region, particularly the province of Osmaniye, where I am a MP, the temperature from time to time exceeds 45 degrees [45 degrees] in the shadow during the summer season. It's hard to breathe even when moisture is added to this temperature, and in this season, especially in the elderly population, death is common. Thus, for many years, people have spent the summer on the plateaus, climbing the mountains, on cool plateaus in the forest, trying to get out of the heat. In particular, these plateaus have become the biggest problem for local forest services in recent years, where people from the Mediterranean basin have come out to cool off. Because in many parts of the country, the forest law has been made legal and criminal procedures for opposition to the forest law due to the public's residential areas.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0162par0452	People have been going out on foot for a thousand years. Don't you want them to go out on foot?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0161par0453	Look, I'd like to share with you a statistical data from the Osmaniye Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on our province Osmaniye. There were 1,324 public cases, including the number of cases in 2010 and 2011, in opposition to Article 93 of Law 6831, and 1,205 people were sentenced as a result of these public cases. The number of cases currently in criminal courts is 119, and the number of files finalized in criminal courts is 732, and the number of files in the Supreme Court is 465. This is not only in Osmaniye province, but also in other provinces. In many parts of our country, the area of the forest was provided with infrastructure services, such as roads, water, electricity, telephones, and social services, such as mosques, health clinics, and security services, by the government's own units. I mean, the public has accepted the temporary housing of citizens in the forests of the summer for a period of time, and the citizen has never even been aware that he is committing crimes according to the existing laws. Here, the first joke of Article 6831 is changed, allowing our citizens to benefit from the footsteps on legitimate grounds, including the 169th and 170th chief provisions of the Constitution, which continue to exist as a major social problem. Again, this law also provides a solution to the campus needs of our universities and can be provided for by allowing universities to establish settlements in corrupt forest areas. I also thank the Republican People's Party and the People's Movement Party Group, who are very important to our people and who are willing to grant us the blessing of our nation's prayers, to our country and to our nation's nation, who have contributed with the law proposal to resolve this problem, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0163par0458	Thank you. Now, in the name of the government, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The MPs seem to be tired.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0164par0462	No, we're not tired.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0463	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and I have made a commitment to express my opinion on the Merkur law bill, which is briefly referred to as.2/B. I salute you all, sir. Sir, first of all, let me put it this way: this is a case of gangrene. 2/B is a case of gangrene, and a lot of governments have tried to solve it for years, but it hasn't been solved. So at the end of 2007 -- in August -- when I was Minister of the Environment and Forest -- I quickly rolled up my sleeves to solve this issue, but I saw that it's not possible to solve it because it's gangrene; it's undetected, it's not defined, it's not defined the boundaries of areas 2/B. In this area, the deed to Kadastro, the treasure and the National Real Estate, has not been processed as a cadastro and registration. So, as you know, let's set up the infrastructure first. We've come up with a proposal for amendments to the Tapu Kadastro Law. In fact, right now, we have brought this bill to parliament as a government by working day and night at the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate, Forest General Directorate and National Realty Directorate, three ministries. I also want to thank the groups. As this bill was drawn up, we received an opinion from both Mr. Şandir (Mr. Hamzacebi) and from Mr. Hamzacebi (Mr. Hamzacebi) themselves, especially from some of their views that we reflected in the law. Also, thank you so much for your support. It really had to be resolved, but why hasn't this matter been resolved? The reason is that once the forest cadastro was incomplete, there was no deed to the forest. For the first time, we have actually worked day and night to complete 90 percent of the forest cadastro now. In fact, we've been working with our Tapu Kadastro General Directorate about the taking of the land of the forest, and so far we've received about 13 million hectares of about 60 percent of the land, and by the end of the year 2014, the entire forest will be registered. I've instructed the friends. It's really a busy study. Think about it, from a situation where only 5 percent of 2002 was made a cadastro, we'll soon get the deed to the entire forest by the end of 2014. If there was a deed to the forest, there would be no matter now. That's the gist of it. So, what do we do? Look, right now, our forest service is working day and night, and I'm proud of them. Look, all over the world, the forest presence has been reduced to both the field and the wealth of wood as we call it, while Turkey -- we should be proud of it -- is growing both in the area of the forest and in the wood.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0166par0469	My book says otherwise.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0470	I'll give you, for example, the area of forest existence in 1972 was 20.2 million hectares, reaching 21.6 million hectares in 2011. This is really important, and let me just say right now, the log wealth, which is 936 million cubic meters, has reached 1,400 million cubic meters by the end of 2010. These are really important. As you know, we're doing a lot of hard work as part of the campaign. So far, by the end of 2011 -- we've exceeded our goal in four years -- we've done some 2 million hectares of farming and forest reform. By the end of 2012, the goal we planned was 2.3 million hectares -- thank God -- and we're going to cross 2.3. By 2.4 million hectares, we're going to be out of our way. These are very important. We produced 519 million saplings from 117 million saplings in 2011, and I instructed my friends this year that you would produce 700 million saplings. We're going to produce 700 million saplings, easy to say. I'd like to make that very clear. We're not just treeing open spaces. Look, we're planting land roads. We've planted about 5.1 million saplings with a 7.382-kilometre reforestation around the landways. We've planted 2,237 kilometers of village road. We've planted 21.453 schoolyards, and we've even got a big project like this, where schools can find life. Hospital and health clinic: 1,025 hospitals and health clinics. We've planted 1,102 temples and temples. We're planting graves. 2,698 graveyards were planted.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0167par0474	Graveyards aren't woods, Mr. Secretary. Graveyards are woods?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0475	We even planted trees in the name of our MPs in the years that passed through the Ataturk Forest Farm, and we planted trees in your name today. Sir, in particular... for the first time, look, there was no plan called "The Temporal Action Plan" Our goal is now 13,000 hectares, in Turkey, with a massive mobilization of the Walnut Action Plan. Also, almonds, 19,000 hectares of almonds, Almonds -- glory -- the Action Plan -- they didn't exist before. In addition, industrial wood production in the forests has increased fourfold. We produced 13.5 million cubic metres of industrial wood in 2011. Where did you... Other than that, we have a really big study of what we call medical aromatic plants. Look, in 2003, $47.5 million was exported, and in 2011, it went up to $280 million. That's not enough. There was no such thing as urban forests, we built 101 urban forests, 105 honey forests. I mean, these are the things that we're really proud of for forestry. I have a few questions, by the way, and I'd like to inform you about them, sir, there have been some questions, specifically, that we've provided the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor with a dump site for the construction site. Look, please pay attention to the numbers on this. Sir, between 1996 and 2009, land dump sites were being auctioned off, and the firms were taking them... and in the end, I'm telling you that in 13 years, the amount of money that we've received in terms of auctions is $30, 150,292. But we spent 20 million, 239, 956 dollars on their wooding, other services, maintenance, surveillance. In 13 years, the net coin has been recovered. Please follow this carefully - $9,910,336. That's the money that was recovered in 13 years. The forest service is out of business, working on the transcripts. It was then given to the major cities to follow up on the law of the Metropolitan Law -- the law -- and to oversee it. We've already said:
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0168par0480	You did, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0481	Excuse me... Excuse me...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0168par0482	So you gave it to me, who gave it to you? It's been given. He didn't come down from the sky.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0483	Sir, excuse me. I listened to you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0168par0484	But answer me. Who took him there? Tell me who they are, who they are.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0485	I'll tell you who took it. Let me talk to him. I listened to you. After the end of the mining activities, the natural structure of the forest, which has been handed over or abandoned, is rehabilitated. In order to prepare for rehabilitation, these areas will be paid for construction, debris and waste to be filled with wastes of waste and waste to grow, at the cost of major urban municipalities in the areas of the city, as well as for municipalities in the cities and municipalities in other places. It has been said. So, what did we do? Look at the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor's office. We've given him less space for the areas we've given him so far. We've given 9 million, 919, 681 square meters in 13 years, and we've given the Grand City 2 million 416,755 square meters. But how much money did we get? $29 million, 373, 113 TL cash came into our safe from the city. Think about it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0169par0488	Explain to me if your nephew was in charge.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0489	Look, there's also...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0169par0490	Did you or did you not put your nephew in charge?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0491	...it's much bigger than less land in a year, three times the income of thirteen years, and we've only gotten from the city in a year. Besides, we're not just giving it to Istanbul Metropolitan City, we're giving it to every city that demands it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0169par0492	Did you or did you not bring your brother's son in charge? Türker Eroglu...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0493	Well, I'll tell you: Türker Eroglu is my nephew. Fifteen years of environmental engineer. There's nothing in there about a dump site.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0169par0494	Now. So? So?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0495	He's part of a deputy manager for hospital waste, which we call total waste and medical waste. Fifteen years of environmental engineer.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0169par0496	No, you started with the Chief of Staff.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0170par0497	Mr. Yilmaz, we'll do the QA.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0165par0498	And I'd like you to pay attention to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yes, thank you very much. I salute you all. It's the truth.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0171par0504	Thank you. Mr. Osman Coffeemaker, Karabuk MP. Mr. Coffee Man, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0508	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the second part of the bill for supporting the development of forest villagers number 198 and the assessment of areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure. I salute you all. I'd like to say that as a bureaucrat for thirty-seven years, especially as someone who's worked in the kitchen of these issues, and as a child of a peasant, I'm really, really happy that the last phase of the two-by-two is being discussed like this.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0173par0510	Are you also satisfied that it's sold at 70%?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0511	Yes, the forest fields...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0173par0512	Say, let's give him a round of applause. Are you happy that it's sold at 70%?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0513	I'll explain that, I'll get to that.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0174par0514	Mr. Korkmaz, don't, please. There's five minutes left.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0515	Yes, forest reductions are usually based on deforestations when talking about 2/B. Yes, human beings are the main cause of forest reductions. Our people interfered with the forests to gain agriculture and to settle down. In some countries, the 2/B event is still ongoing, while the 2/B process has been completed in our country over the past decade, and Turkey has become one of the few countries in the world to increase forest existence, with our forests cleared of irregular interventions. Indeed, we thank you once again for the sensitivity of the Turkish people and the zealous work of our forest service and for our beloved nation. Yes, in our country, from the pre-Republic era to today, there have been really several forms of forest intervention, and the state has made many arrangements to find a legal solution to these interventions. The first arrangement began in 1937 with Law 3116. After that, the first constitutional arrangement began in 1970, with the amendment of Article 131 of the Constitution of 1961, as well as the Constitution of 2/B, which began in 1970. After that, in line with the amendment of this Constitution, Article 2 of Forest Law No. 2 of the 6831 Law was replaced by Law 1744 in 1973, and the legal name of the places that have been removed from the forest in the period leading up to the 81 Constitution has been taken into effect. In addition to the amendment of the 1982 Constitution, the 2/B process was added to the 169th and 170th amendments, but the 31/12/1981 period was moved forward for another 20 years, and the event that we are currently talking about as 2/B in the places that were removed prior to that date. However, in the 82 Constitution, as mentioned in the law that we are talking about now, a feature has been introduced. However, let us remind you, for the first time in the Constitution of 61, the forest areas cannot be narrowed down. The exception is that the forest areas cannot be narrowed down. After that, the article 2 is brought in, and the 82 Constitution has been brought out of the forest without being qualified. This is the historical process of what we call Law 6831, which is mentioned in Article 4 of Law 198, which we are talking about today. Yes, it's about the 2/Bs, and I really, for a long time, I'd like to say that we've talked about this with our opposition friends, our fellow lawmakers, our non-religious organizations, and I'm extremely happy that this bill has come today with the context of our opposition parties and that it has come to this point in such a consensus.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0175par0518	You're running out of time, explain this 70 percent, 70 percent.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0519	There are now 410,000 hectares of 2/B land, according to our current situation. Look, 5 per cent of the 2/B estates are boroughs, towns and settlements. However, if there's any mention of a source... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So most of these resources are about five percent of the area, even about 80 percent of the area. In other areas, really, the land of our citizens in the countryside is here...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0175par0523	Congressman, are you going to announce it backstage?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0524	I'd also like to say that the pathways of our different rural and forest villages, rural and forest villages, are not as expected or as they say. Let me put it this way.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0175par0526	You didn't have enough time.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0527	These 2/B areas include villas, many settlements, industrial areas.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0176par0528	Mr. Coffee Man, it's been too long.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0529	Time ran out, I couldn't finish, I couldn't answer friends' questions.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0177par0530	Congressman, are you going to announce your 70 percent work backstage?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0176par0531	Thank you very much, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0172par0532	The area 2/B in Kayseri is also 3.116 hectares in Kayseri.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0176par0534	Well, the honorable MPs sitting on this side, I'm going to say something to no one there, not you, not all of them. I'm not saying sit down. You're getting angry at me, that's what's going to happen. Thank you. Now, the final statement is from Mr. Durmiş Ali Torlak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I'll check the clapping rate. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0178par0540	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the second part of the underlying bill. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, Turkey's first Forest Law came into force in 1937 with 3116 points. By this law, citizens were granted the right to a deed through the forest, followed by Law 4775, which was later issued in 1945, and all forests were stateed. As a result of mistakes caused by technology and improbability as of the period, the problem has continued since certain rights holders have been registered as forests during the Law of 4775. Even though the work and the land were then removed from the forest, many of the citizens of the real estate became invaders on their own land, as they were registered on the treasure. Forest law 6831 and forest legislation revised in 1956 were found to have taken a serious step towards resolving the problem under the amendment to Law 3302 in 1986, with a definition of the land that had lost its forest quality before 1981 in the 2nd Amendment (b) of the Law. But the desired result, unfortunately, has not been achieved. By today, there are many laws in our legislation that are not yet implemented. Thus, this bill that we are discussing must be in accordance with the new application law that will ensure that the objectives of the Constitution, which are included in Article 170, will not occur again in the processes I just mentioned. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the general bill of justice and equality, there is no distinction between the sale of land, fields and gardens in villages and the selling of areas 2/B and the areas in cities. In addition, the income situation of our citizens living in rural villages and sparring their livelihoods here seems to be ignored. However, the fact that the elements that determine right ownership are not mentioned in the text of the law without any abuse will have consequences for many unjust and wrong practices. On the other hand, obstacles to the freedom of rights are a violation of the rule of law, which leads to many sacrifices and disagreements. Following these assessments, Istanbul's Beykoz, Ümraniye, Chile, Çekmeköy, Tuzla, Kartal, Sultanbeyli districts, and 2/B areas around Turkey have been subject to development plans and sold to squatters. These applications have lasted for years. There have been problems with re-integrating areas that have been mistakenly removed from the forest. Of the areas identified by the Forest General Directorate as a forest area across the country, 90 per cent of the area in Istanbul has not yet been registered. Therefore, the first measure in our country must be taken under this bill to protect and ensure the presence of forests and green areas is Istanbul. Dear MPs, forest areas on both sides of Istanbul have gathered in northern Istanbul. In Istanbul, the population, which rose after the 1950s, threatened the forests along with the internal migration. For this reason, forests and agricultural areas are under great pressure because of the rapid population growth in Istanbul and the migration from rural areas to the city. Istanbul, which has been ruled by the same staff for 18 years, has been under increased pressure on forests and treasury lands due to illegal construction, and has been encouraged to avoid the necessary measures against these pressures to destroy forest areas. Madam Secretary, I know we don't have much time, but I'd like to share a fax with you today. A statement was issued to 1,100 of our fellow forest villagers within the court's jurisdiction of 2002, a month ago at the point where they were evacuated by the Beykoz Forest Authority. We think it's in our people's best interest to stop these notifications until at least this law is passed. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0179par0551	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. Moving on to QA. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0180par0554	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister who just spoke on the stand gave false information. Now, the sandburgaz forests in Istanbul... used to be a minefield, where the mines were mined -- it was tied to the forest administration -- the soil was falling out here, the money was falling out. Later, when this Minister became Minister in 2007, he made a special law, dedicated it to Istanbul City Hall, and those statements were poured out on behalf of the Istanbul City Hall, and billions of dollars in cash were taken. He also brought a last name to the branch office. Now, I'd like to know: he just said that nine million liras we took from the city of Istanbul. I don't think that's right because you gave the law to Istanbul City Hall. How much money has Istanbul City taken from him so far? Secondly, this is where the AKP headquarters used to be...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0181par0561	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0182par0562	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Minister said that Turkey is among the world's rich forests. I've got jungle law. Here in terms of forest law -- this book is new -- in terms of forest wealth in the world, we're ahead of Iran, Iraq, Syria, right, but we're behind all European countries. Would you correct this false information you just said? That's one. Second, do we have a province in Turkey that doesn't have any forest areas? Third, the authority of the forest cadastro commission to drive a forest-recognised area out of the forest line. In that sense, why didn't you take Hasanpaşa neighborhood of Sultanbeyli district of Istanbul out of the forest area? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0183par0568	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0184par0569	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, Doğansuyu (HES) Hydroelectric Plant Dam in Adana Aladağ Gökçeköy is under way. I've received a call that the power plant site is opening and thousands of cubic metres from this field are being poured into the Seyhan River. There's a lot of harmful material in this account, including explosive residue. The Seyhan River is used for the drinking water of the province of Adana, both the watering of Çukurova, and much more importantly. Is it true that this illegal situation will directly and indirectly affect human life? Are there any reports, reviews, or verdicts? Also, I saw you leave the House yesterday -- they said it belonged to you -- you bought a very nice car of office, God damn it, the license plate 06 RDK 46. If it's the vehicle your husband uses, I've heard that it's a top model of the German most prestigious brand BMW, and I've heard a very exaggerated number that the annual rent is $277,000. Is it true or not?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0185par0573	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0186par0574	Mr. President, I want to thank you for doing such a thing.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0185par0575	Don't mention it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0186par0576	Actually, our Minister of Energy was here during the day, and our Minister of Forest was here. I wanted to catch up with him and ask him a question or something, but now we have an opportunity like this.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0185par0577	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0186par0578	I thank you for that, too.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0185par0579	We gave it to him first.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0186par0580	I say, thank you, Mr. Secretary, for all the service he's done. From Kayseri to Adana, the Seyhan River goes, and from Marashan comes. Above Adana, fifty HES projects were given on this Seyhan River, so they were given their licenses, and they were delivered. So some of them went into business, some of them had accidents, 12 of our people received the mercy of Hakk, and 6 of their dead were still not found. You went to the tea shop, but you didn't come there. That's one question. Second: there is a district called Saimbeyli. This is Seyhan from Saimbeyli...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0187par0583	If you give me your second question...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0188par0584	Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0189par0585	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, when you see the forest and you see 2/B, you think of HES, and I'm not going to mention it, but you've said a lot of fancy things, and we're listening to a lot of numbers here... how am I supposed to trust that when I see TDACH's transformers in the DSI pond in Ashdale? What did you do about it? Who are we going to answer for the lives of five people? The Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Forestry or the Ministry of Forestry Energy? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0190par0588	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0191par0589	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, you know very well how much animal rights are on the agenda today. Eagle Mayor wants to build an animal shelter. Over and over, his appeals to the forest service are rejected because he's from the opposition party. Why is such a place not reserved in the area of the forest lost its quality in the Eagle Aydos Forest? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0192par0592	Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0193par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: We know that we have nearly 2,000 citizens in Bursa, who have already received the deed according to the deed and the kadastro or the zoning laws, but are later declared to be within the forest limits. I wonder, what is that number across Turkey? Since these remain outside 2/B, is it possible to resolve the situation of these friends by this law? Because is it possible to correct this situation here, which brings 50 per cent of the commission to 70 per cent and rejects the Commission? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0194par0596	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0195par0597	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is it true that a significant amount of 2/B land in Istanbul belongs to a Minister of the Forest who served in your previous governments? If that's true, how much land will be given to this Minister or his relatives? Is your conscience aching as a Minister of the Forest? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0196par0600	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0197par0601	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, for the record, there have been a number of injustices in the extradition of the forests that have been stateed according to 4785, and you have not corrected it in this law. Do you think there's an arrangement for that? Secondly, there's a cancellation of the deed. They've been revoked in matters where the citizen has no flaws, and now their land is being taken away, and they're writing a lot of fines. You're entitled to 2/B land and the cancellation of the deed, but you don't have any results in the 2/B land cancellations, you don't have any regulations in this law. Are you going to make an arrangement about these? For the record, Mr. Secretary, I've asked these questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0198par0605	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0606	Thank you, Mr. President. First, Mr. Young had a question. For one thing, I would like to express this in particular: this is a law that has been passed to city municipalities, non-majorities, other municipalities, and even district municipalities, as a result of the expiration areas, and I would like to state this in particular. So on June 10, 2010, we gave 5995, the 19th article, according to the 19th article of the Mining Law, for this purpose. We're not just giving it to the Istanbul Metropolitan, we're giving it to every city that demands it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0200par0608	That's where the big runt is.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0609	Now, I'll tell you this: here, I have the numbers. I couldn't even explain some of the issues because my time was limited. I just said it again. Previously, from 1996 to 2009, until this law was passed, there were approximately 48 tenders. I mean, I'm talking about Istanbul, which is a 72 million,788,499 square meters by the District Department.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0200par0610	That money goes into the woods.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0611	He's going into the woods. For that purpose, it was paid for nearly $30 million 150,292 euros, but it was paid for. So the chase of these, the wooding costs... they didn't make this wooding, we did it, the forest service did it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0201par0613	It's been increasing lately, Mr. Secretary, recently.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0614	Besides, there are other people who are being audited and assigned to the tenders, there are a general set of expenses. Friends did the math for all of this. The total amount is 20 million, 239, 956 liras, and when we get out, the net income in thirteen years is $9,910,336 in thirteen years. But we've given the city much less space. The area we're giving is 2 million 416, 755 square meters. The money we've received in just a year and a half is $29,373,113 from the Metropolitan City Department to the Ministry's vault. Besides, other than that, the city's got work to do, five years of care...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0201par0616	Who did the city hall give it to? Who provided the runt?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0617	...planting, planting large saplings, the city's responsibility, except for them. So here, in the past, the forest service has given up its work, and he's been chasing after the past. I forbid it. There's a lot more money now, three times as much money in thirteen years that we've taken from the city in a year. Besides, the forest service is doing its job properly. Last year, in 2011, 1,300,000 saplings were planted. Now, the forest service is actually doing its job. Sir, I'd like to answer the question of Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0202par0619	Anyway, if you send it, we'll compare it to what you say, right or wrong.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0620	I didn't say Turkey was a forest-rich country. In particular, I said that forest presence has increased in wood wealth, in space, and in many countries the forest presence has increased in decline, I expressed it. Now, of course, we have cities with very, 12% forest presence. We have strengthened the forest service, and we have instructed all regions that while the forest service used to work only in the woodland, it can now work in all areas, open areas, even on the roadsides, and in the treasures.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0203par0621	They're not woods, they're graveyards. They're woods.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0622	In some places, it even brings out third - grade meres that are impossible to reform. In a nutshell, I'd like to make that clear. Mr. Türkoglu, I haven't received such a call so far about the Hesses, but I'll take it, I'll follow up with him tomorrow. I'll fill you in on that. Mr. Halaman's...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0204par0625	Sir, the station vehicle... the station vehicle...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0626	As far as the agency's concerned, I haven't... that is not my vehicle, that is my...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0205par0627	There's a lot of gossip.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0628	Okay, gossip, so you're taking my sin. My car is a rental, it's a very old car, I'd like to point out in particular. It's still been two years...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0205par0629	What's the annual rent?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0206par0630	Name your annual rent.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0631	Sir, we haven't rented it yet, we'll tell you when we've rented it. I'm driving the old car right now. Besides, I told you about Mr. Turkoglu. It's about Mr. Halaman: Sir, about the HES project, so look, I'll tell you this: these HES (hes) are essential to Turkey, the insurance of electricity is our own national resource. These should have been completed thirty or forty years ago. There's water, we've seen it. Thus, these HESEs must be done, but if anyone does wrong, we punish them. As for the accident in Adana, of course, we were upset, there was an accident, but it was an accident by the private sector.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0207par0635	400 HES have been shut down in America because it's destroying nature.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0636	The bridge collapsed at the tea shop. Other friends left during this accident, but I went there to help find the van -- my expert on the river -- because of the matter of the bridge to Teacuma -- especially by using the currents to help find the van, and just the night we left, the van was found. May God have mercy on them, and my condolences to your relatives.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0208par0637	Did you rent one of those white cars?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0638	Mr. Onur, sir, this transformer doesn't belong to us because this HES belongs to us. So as a result, it's something that belongs to TEDAS. TEDAŞ has appointed officials; if they have any negligence, they are being sanctioned.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0209par0639	Why are the transformers in the lake? We don't understand him.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0640	You'll have to ask him, it's not about me.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0209par0641	How is that not relevant?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0642	I mean, would it be such a mistake to place all the blame on the HESS just because it belongs to the lake?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0209par0643	We're not uploading it to HES. Look, there's an engineering error there.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0644	Mr. Dinçer, about the animal shelter, we're giving out areas that aren't near the settlements, where they won't be disturbed. If Eagle's Mayor demands a suitable area... basically, the Metropolitan Municipality has decided to come up with a collective solution to animal shelters. In fact, we, you know, have sent all the support required in other municipalities, other than the major cities, to all municipalities for both infertility and inoculation. I didn't get any demands on this -- I'll look into it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0210par0645	If you can, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0199par0646	I'll be right back, sir. Regarding the question of Mr. Demiröz, about the deeds in Bursa.... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The others, sir, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0211par0650	Give it to me in writing. Thank you. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, the 10 jokes of Article 13 will be discussed as separate substances. There are three motions in the 13th article, which I read in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 13 of the current bill. Article 1 of the article. We offer and propose that the notice in the village and in the village be changed to the district and the village capital. Seyfettin Yilmaz Mehmet Şandir Nevzat Korkmaz Kemalettin Yılmaz Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Oktay Özturk The 13th draft of the 198 Numbered Bill. We propose and propose that the article in the first joke of the article shall be changed to the terms of the property and the terms of the districts of the villages in the form of the districts and villages. Vacay Picks R. Kerim Özkan İlhan Demiröz I'm going to read the current motion, and I'm going to process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 1 of Article 13 of the 1 98 bill. We offer and propose that his joke be removed from the draft text. Pervin Buldan Hasip Kaplan Levent Tüzel Iron Steel Sebahat Tuncel İbrahim Binici Ayla Akat Sırrıyya Leader Is the commission in? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0212par0678	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0211par0679	Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0213par0680	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Here the Turkish race has been humiliated by Mr. Secretary; as a Turk, it's been hard on me, so I'll start by correcting it. The water flows from the Turk, not to the Turk's stupidity, not to his stupidity. The ancient tradition of Turk's relationship with nature leads to respect, attention, and rikkatine. They weren't dumber than you. (Applause from BDP, CHP and MHP) The Turk looked because he knew it was a world system when water flowed, that it was an inheritance from his children, that it was something that needed to be protected and left to the future. So he doesn't have your intelligence? That's how you insult Turkish people. We have to pay attention to the Turkish people's humiliation.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0214par0682	I didn't insult him, there's no such thing. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0213par0683	I'll finish my speech, Mr. Secretary, and you'll answer me later. Look, the issue you call HESEST, in America, is now being destroyed. Why? That's because they're sabotaging the future. The issue, Mr. Secretary, you call it, is that this new neoliberal system now holds the monopoly of debt in the world. That's how the paradigm works today. So your export property, the condition that imperialism can use its funds in this country... look, I'm going to use this electricity to pay off the villagers here for the next 50 years, and I'm going to buy this debt monopoly. Look, the simplest thing is -- there's nothing the public won't understand -- that's it. It's to set up a debt monopoly and market the system with it, and that's the second one. You're also misinformation about HES. A mera law passed today. I also want to point out in the name of power: I supported the Commission to increase 50 percent to 70 percent, so I remember saying 170 percent, or even 70 percent, but with one exception, let's give it to the villageman, let's look for it, or let's make an adjustment based on the power that he can pay for it. Think about how you can answer to the locals. So you have a voter, and the MPP, hopefully, we'll have one in the future. Now, the Yörüks won't put you there because 70 percent of the economies are already closed, they don't even know money, they give it to salt, they still live on a trampa like this. I'm drawing your attention to that, too. A mera law passed today. It was discussed in the Commission. Look, guys, the work is based on intentions, and the opposite is the dialectic. The following is: What you've arranged earlier in the mera law, what you're now asking for a revision, says that 1 per cent can be built in 1 per cent, 1 per cent in session. You've also put terms in foreign language, and I object today, and he says, "Padok. We said, "Padok, what?," he told the representative of the government, "Animals' hiking area." E, write about animals' hiking grounds. Because that's not the number. Padok, there will be private racetracks, private horse farms. That's the trick, that's how the gullep spins. When he calls his name, a private track will be set up there the day after tomorrow, and he will say, "Here is the law." I don't understand E, nor Padoku. Then, thanks to the president, he said that its origin was Greek, its etymological origin. You don't see any blame in this, you're jazzing when we say something in Kurdish. And I'd like to bring this to your attention, three or four. Now, I've suggested that, for the sake of the orphan, for the sake of your grandchildren, and to make it clear if there are any thieves, you're saying that one percent of the crown can be doubled by the decision of the Board of Ministers. Don't build an acre in a 100-acre place. I said there are no animals more than three feet in this country. Let's say it's two meters from us, and since the giraffe doesn't grow around here, let's limit the altitude, the height of the floor, and half a meter from us. Why don't you write the height of the law when you're writing the base session area? The day after tomorrow, the man will say, "My brother, look here, I set it up for 1 percent, but I set it up 100 meters." What do you say? Legal or moral? Glory be to Him! So, come on, guys, about this, really, I said we should change that. Whoever shouts is the thief, and whoever shouts is the thief. And I'm bringing this back to your attention. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0215par0693	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0216par0694	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0215par0695	Okay.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0217par0696	The decision is enough... yes, he's right.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit04spe0215par0697	Okay. She's taken it hard, she's taken it hard... I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0215par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked 5th in Southeast Asia, confirming the Third Protocol that changed the Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 208 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE THIRD WHO CHANGED THE SUNDOM'S CONTRACT OF FRIENDS AND WORKING IN THE SUNY PROTOCOLN PRODUCTION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION The 3rd Protocol, which changed the Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation, signed in Hanoi on July 23, 2010, was approved with the declaration. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on the third protocol that changed the Friendship and Co-operation Agreement in Southeast Asia: ▪ Number of votes used: 207 [[x]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the UNDP-Istanbul Special Sector Centre for International Development (IICPSD) within the United Nations Development Programme, which is ranked sixth, with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. The Commission and the Government are here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 119 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. UNDP-YSTAN PROGRAM TO CONTINUE THE COMMUNITY OF COMMUNITY WITH THE COMMUNICATION OF TOURHICTION (ICCPSD) TO CONTINUE CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE UNDP-STANBULATION OF THE CENTER OF CENTER (ICCPSD) MADDE 1- (1) was approved on March 11, 2011 in Ankara by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the UNDP-Istanbul Special Sector Centre for International Development (IICPSD) within the United Nations Development Programme. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the adoption of the Special Sector Centre for Special Development (IICPSD) within the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the United Nations Development Programme is the result of a clear vote: ▪ Number of votes used : 235 [[x]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Permanent Homeland Agreement between the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries for Co-operation in Turkish Language-speaking Countries. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 220 rows. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Yusef Halaçoğlu wants to take a stand over the entire bill. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0218par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I'm not going to talk for too long, I'm just going to talk for 20 minutes. Now, of course, we're discussing laws where there really are a lot of arguments and stuff, but...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0219par0076	Look, the president is calling out the long talkers.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0218par0077	No, I won't talk long, I'll talk for 20 minutes. We're talking about a really good deal that the Republic of Turkey has carried out in connection with the Turkish republics. It was a deal that should have happened a long time ago, because from the moment they became more or less independent, I was the head of an institution that had a very close relationship with these republics, and in our research with them in various fields, there was a severe need for such a co-operation agreement. As a matter of fact, in 1994, we held a convention called the Turkish World Research Congress. The republics had just been established, they had gained independence, the ideas of the former Soviet regime still existed, of course, and the same ideas existed in the research. In this framework of Congress, we saw, first of all, what language do we agree on, and it was very important. Interestingly, when we went to Kyrgyztan, for example, there was almost no scientist in Kyrgyztan, so there was no scientist who spoke Kyrgyz Turkish. We didn't want to speak English at a convention where the Turkish states met, so we said: "Let it be Turkish, but at least a translation in different dialects if necessary." And after Congress, we decided, "Let's write a common Turkish history." Let this Turkish history be a common source in textbooks throughout the entire Turkish world, and let a date be built on it. We wrote a date after two years of work. Yes, we've made a date, but because of the constant regime changes, the date has not been published, and has been constantly changed, depending on the development of the regime there, and so we have it. And after that, we didn't attempt to do anything about it, but we did do this: look, valuable lawmakers, we call it Turkish history, but there are so many things in Turkish history that we don't really know, that there are so many empty areas of Turkish history that you'd be amazed. Well, for example, you all know that our first written sources are Orhun Abides, but they're not. They have the history of the Chinese Han Dynasty of 1200 B.C.E., so there are journals held by Chinese emperors. There's a lot of information about Huns in these journals. We brought them to Turkey in three hundred and twenty-six volumes. Since it was written in ancient Chinese, there were very few people in Turkey who knew ancient Chinese. We've formed three teams, we've started to translate them, and in fact, in two volumes -- unfortunately, we couldn't do the rest because I left -- we've printed the Hun and the Skyturk era. There was some really interesting information here. So we said, "Let's go to archeological digs." One of our most important settlements in Central Asia was the region of the mountains of God, which we call the mountains of God, at the height of 3,100 meters [3,100 m]. We did an archaeological dig here at a place called Son Cologne. What was interesting was that we dug up the graves, which we found in these Kurgans, that the horse of the man who was laid in the grave was buried with him. What's interesting is, for example -- in Anadolu, perhaps many of you know -- we came across knives we knew on the female graves, on the skeletons, right above the chest. These are for the sake of purity. There is still the same thought, tradition, in Anatolia. Can you imagine, the result of the same tradition from 1200 B.C.E.? Of course, the result of how the horse was tamed and used was that we had different cultural assets such as saddles, stirrups... We did the same archaeological dig in the field. We did archaeological excavations in the Crimea region, in what we call the Akkerman, and in the interiors of Crimean. From what we've gathered here, it has come to be, indeed, that Turkish history is a vast and unexplored subject. Again...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0220par0082	They don't want it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0218par0083	But then I'd appreciate it if you'd be a little quieter.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0221par0084	We're listening to you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0218par0085	I know you're listening. Now, what was more interesting was that in the history of China, we came across an interesting piece of information in history called the history of Chin-Su. The information was this, says a record from 2000 B.C.E.: they lived in the Villagemen mountains in height. It's been very cold in the winter. The eldest son of them lit a fire, warmed up, and survived. They chose him as chieftain and gave him the title of Turk. Look, the first year in Chinese history was 2000, 2000 B.C.E. As a matter of fact, it's even more important that such resources, all the records, are put together, a secretariat is established, and this is in Turkey. The creation of a documentation centre is extremely important. Because as there are many world archives, there are books, and if we put them together, we will be able to reach a common methodology with a Turkish world academy that will be created in such a secretariat, and with this methodology, we will be able to reveal these cultural values. A second issue was that Turkish history, indeed, had a structure that began from the Chinese Sea, from the Japanese Sea, but started from the Adriatic Sea, not from the Atlantic Ocean to Somalia on the other side of Africa -- from all Arabia to Somalia on the other side. To do that, we needed to inventory Turkish cultural assets in this geography, so we needed to get an inventory of architectural structures from the earliest time to the nearest period. We started this inventory in Kazakhstan, in Kyrgyztan, in Azerbaijan, in Syria, in Lebanon, Egypt, in Tunisia, we did this inventory, we finished nearly all of the Balkans, but we didn't get to the end. Can you imagine that there is still no inventory of the cultural assets of a nation with such a rich history that has built so many governments? So in the event that this is done at the head of a secretary like this, we'll be able to get to our cultural assets that really go back to the very beginning, and we'll be able to get to that. Now, in this framework, I'd like to say that, well-respected lawmakers, we call it Turkish history, we always keep one thing out of sight when we say Turkish history. I mean, there are 16 states in the presidential forum, big empires, you know, but there's no Safehouses in it, there's no Mamluk State. Once you have joined these two states, we will emerge as a nation of 18 great states. I'd like to point out here in particular that nations who build great empires can't be racists. Why can't they be? They can't build an empire if they're racist because empires aren't national states; they're multinational, multilingual, multicultural states. So if you think about all of this -- and that's already the basis of the Turkish rule of rule -- and it's the concept of ruling the whole world -- if the nations with that idea -- and if they're not imperialists, they're imperialists, they should already be spoken in Turkish all over the world today, almost all of the Balkans should be Muslims. You all know there's no such thing. So, we need to be specific here: Turkish civilization, Turkish culture, doesn't give you the opportunity to be racist. So, you see, from those who claim to be Armenian genocides, another team of empirical Turks, all of them, even in this understanding, have to see that even if they look at our history, the Turks can't be genocideists, so they can't be genocides because they're not racists. As a matter of fact, in the Ottoman Empire, an organization we call "Darulaceze" was formed. The door of the weak and the way of the needy. It's an institution where people of every religion are protected and cared for, but do you know what the basis is? It lasts all the way to the sky. In the sky, if you think about Orhun Abides, it says: "When the blue sky above was created, and there was no rain down there, there was a son of a man among them." He says, "The man was created." He says, "The man was created." So he only emphasizes to man. You will see him in Mahmud of Kaşgar, and you will see him in Seljuk, and you will see him in Sheikh Edebali. When you say, "Son, cherish man, so that the state may live." You say, "The state shall live." You say, "Son, value man, so that the state may be exalted." Because if you care about man, the state will be exalted, and the people will be exalted, and the state will be exalted by man, and not by law. To raise good people, to raise decent people. As a matter of fact, we have a law that is not even in the Republic of Turkey, which is in the Ottoman Empire. There is a Law on Disgrace, which means there is a law on honoring. This Law has indicated which people will be able to attend to when they perform what tasks. So there's no need to bring in a mufti so you can be sheiküllislam, it's imperative that you become a Rumeli Kazakri or be legal from there. In order to be a book clerk, you have to be a general again. But what's happening to us now, in Turkey? He's being brought in as a professor from the university and put into office as Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. It's at least a year before he finds out about it. He's doing it wrong, he's doing it right, he's facing a lot of problems. But that's not gonna happen if there's a rule. So, in fact, when we put together the entire culture in the Turkish world, it's going to be a very different structure. Yes, I'm going to put an end to my words here, but I especially say this: (Applause from the AK PARTY) This is the Republic of Turkey, and if we want to make this country's future bright, we need to know our past well, we need to know correctly, because nations who know their pasts will not fall back into their futures. So, not just because the old one is old, but history is taught not only to boast about history, but to define it as a source of experience, and for that, knowledge is made. The Turkish world, hopefully, will join in with Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan in the future, and Cyprus will join in with it, and a wider Turkish world, a geopolitic and strategic position, will become united as the trustees of a geography with a bright future in the world, a full focus of energy centers. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0222par0096	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0223par0099	Thank you, Mayor. 1) Mr. Secretary, when will the Ergene River be cleared? Since when will agriculture be watered clean in the Thrace Ergene basin? 2) In the borders of the Ataturk Dam, Adıyaman and Şanlıurfa districts and districts of Şanlıurfa are being poured into the dam without decontamination. When will this be cleaned up and what precautions will you take? 3) Prepaid water is sold in some districts of Istanbul, first collecting money and then water is given. Isn't that a violation of human rights in terms of life? 4) Is the periodically controlled in the waters sold in dumb bottles? If so, what are the consequences? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0224par0105	Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0225par0106	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, when I found you here, I was at the Afyonkarahisar Agriculture Fair at the weekend. And there I was with your brethren, Shuhut, and Tea, and Bolwadin, and Dinar, and Amirdağ. They wanted me to tell you, especially the feeders, they say: "We're costing the food for $16, but now the Meat and Fish Foundation is cutting it for $14. We're down $2 per kilo. Does the Minister know about this? We also cut the heifers we feed, the female animals between $7 and $11, which we charge from $14 to $15. We'd appreciate it if you'd share these matters with the Minister. I share with you the problems of our fellow citizens, of my in-laws, in the presence of all MPs in the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0226par0109	Mr. Dinçer...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0227par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is the status of the hydropower plant planned for Erzincan-Kemah? Despite the tender, there has been no work for three years. I want to know if it's been canceled. I'll buy it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0228par0113	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0229par0114	Sir, the action plan for Ergene is now in effect. Of course, because the municipalities there can't do these treatment facilities, we're doing -- it's a big action plan -- they're mobilising treatment facilities under State Water Affairs and SDUAP. Solid waste disposal facilities, river reforms, all the dam ponds are being built, don't worry. Second, I'll answer you in writing on other matters. Mr. Özkan, okay, I've heard the news about the food and the heifer; you can pass it on to my people. Mr. Dinçer, I'm going to report to you in writing the latest status of the HES (hemah) between Erzincan and Kemah. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0230par0119	Sir, there's still time, we have questions, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0231par0120	Sure, sure, go ahead, Mr. Tanal. Please, of course...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0232par0121	He needs to ask about the bill, but that's not how it works!
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0231par0122	Here you are, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0233par0123	Mr. President, the bridge was destroyed at this Teacuma. For how long are these bridges in Turkey periodically controlled? Are there bridges about this that are equally likely to collapse? My second question: The state is imperfect because of the fall of the bridge in Teacuma. The family of our citizens who died due to this defect must be paid in accordance with Article 125 of the Constitution. Do you intend to pay compensation in that sense?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0231par0125	Mr. Silver, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0234par0126	Thank you. A study is being conducted on Central Asia, at least Turkish-speaking countries. When transportation networks are finished in the world, especially in Central Asia, China has some goals for this area, it wants to integrate with Central Asia. After this integration, we can't think about integration with Central Asian culture, nor can we think about integration with the Uygur issue. In order for Turkish culture to be at least protected here, economic integration with this region must quickly be realized for our country and for the Black Sea countries. Are there any studies on this subject? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0235par0129	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0236par0130	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, an old bridge has been destroyed in Teacuma. Basically, there's a new bridge next to it, but it's been specifically used. But when we look at the reason for its collapse, it seems that in those days, a great flood came to pass. As a result of the carving of its foundation, there is a collapse of the plate. Of course, there's an administrative and criminal investigation going on here. As a result of the investigation, if there's a flaw, there will be compensation. Regarding what Mr. Silver said about China, of course, our Foreign Ministry and the Prime Minister are working on it. I mean, of course, we know some of China's intentions, especially in the future, in Central Asia. Of course, there are some studies being done, we're aware of that. You know, that's the basis of the deals that just passed. I'd like to bring that to your attention.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0237par0132	Madam Secretary, China will have reached the Caspian region and the balance of the world will change completely.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0238par0133	We have time, Mr. Silver. Come in, let's open it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0239par0134	Are there inspections on other bridges, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0238par0135	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0240par0136	Minister, when this is done, the Chinese will have reached the Caspian region via Central Asia and all the world's balances will change. We don't seem to have any work to do about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0238par0138	Mr. Tanal, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0241par0139	Minister, whose authority is it that controls the other bridges in Turkey? Who needs to supervise? Shouldn't the bridges be inspected periodically? I'd appreciate it if you could answer that question in that sense, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0238par0140	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0242par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'm curious about one thing: the 500-year-old Ottoman bridges aren't coming down, so why are our actions falling apart now? I mean, those big bridges, sixteen-eyed, twenty-eyed bridges, they don't come down, but all the new bridges fall down. Now, then there's something wrong with that. The 500-year-old bridge doesn't collapse, 60-year-old bridge collapses, collapses. Perhaps it would be better if more careful engineering lines were drawn. What do you say?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0243par0144	Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0244par0145	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, two groups of people are being treated differently in Fethiye Sarayköy. It says: For those who build their homes on 2/B, between 5,000 and 10,000 fines are fined, while those who build houses on their own land are fined a thousand lira. What do you think is the reason for the different practices here? Will these people be compensated? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0245par0148	Mr. Kaçir...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0246par0149	Mr. President, questions to be asked at this stage are asked to understand the law. We are not on the agenda. It's at least a matter of respect for the General Assembly that friends who ask questions observe it. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0245par0152	Mr. Onur...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0247par0153	Thank you. Photos of the cracked surface of the old bridge in Teacuma are on the website of the city of Teacuma. How accurate is this repair? You think you fixed it by putting loaded vehicles on an old bridge and laying asphalt on it? There were also reports of changes in the river's current. Why did you choose to build a second bridge instead of a river reform study?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0245par0155	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0248par0156	Sir, the AKP representative just said to ask the question about the matter. But these are the activities of Parliament, and these are very serious problems of our people. The bridge is the problem of our people, and we have 15 people who have lost their lives because of the bridge that has been destroyed. So I'll leave it to your appreciation for an unsatisfactory sense of power. Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0249par0159	Sir, I'd like to state that whoever did this is overseeing the bridges. Basically, there's usually a bridge-related unit on the highway, and they're under constant supervision. There are so many, I mean, these numbers are even higher now with double roads being made. He's overseeing the highways now. But, of course, not only in Turkey, but in all parts of the world, sometimes the bridge collapses like this. We see disasters, disasters, floods all over the world. The Highways do the inspection. It's about the old bridge, where tech guys are investigating right now. It will be decided based on the results of the investigation. Here, why was it destroyed, what was it, all of it being examined. I myself went there with Mr. Bali Yıldırım. If you remember, I was there last Thursday. In fact, some of the friends have not been to ▪2/B. They've been to comment, but I'd like to state that I'm there for such a task. Of course, it's important that I tell you that as the lady put it, it has nothing to do with river reforms. It's not about whether or not the river was reformed, but the fall of the bridge, completely, the result of the fall of the bridge's feet, as a result of the collapse of the foot and thus the collapse of the tablet. As for Mr. Halaçoglu... of course, the bridges are not because the Ottoman bridges aren't coming down, so some bridges are falling down.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0250par0163	Which one was destroyed?
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0249par0164	That depends on the status of the bridge, depending on the charges on the situation. Of course, as you can imagine, the loads are a lot different now than they were in the past; there may have been one car in the past, but there are about 15 to 20 tons of trucks going by right now. I think we should consider that, too. I don't know anything about the 2/B in Tekirdağ. If you give me specific information about it, I'll write it down and give you an exact answer in writing. Thank you all very much.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0251par0167	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTACT OF THE LANDS CONTROLATION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TOURHICS CONTINUATION TO CONTINUE THE CONTINUE OF BUILDING OF BUILDING OF BUILDING CONTINUATION OF BUILDING MADDE 1- (1) (27/12/2011) was approved by the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries for Co-operation between the Council of Turkish Language-speaking Countries in Ankara. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on ratification of the Household Country Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Council of Turkish-speaking Countries for Co-operation between Turkish-speaking countries is a result of a clear vote: "The number of votes used: 244 [[x]] == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations with the International Convention on Compliance of Border Controls, which is ranked 8th in line with the Enforcement of Border Transactions on International Highway Transport, the draft of the 8th Amendment, and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and the Foreign Commission Report, which is ranked in the 9th ranking, the International Transporting of Disrupted Foods Matters, and the Joining in Agreement on Special Equipment to Be Used in this Transport Act. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the 10th edition of the Highway Traffic Convention and with the European Completion Completion Compliance Bill and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the talks of Peoples' Democratic Party' Democratic Party (HDP) MPs Mehmet Şandir and İzmir MP Oktay Seral, who has been ranked in the 11th ranking ranked on the Higher Education Institutions Act, Mehmet Erdogan and 13 MPs' proposals for the Law in the Similar Statement of the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 222 rows. Asked on behalf of groups on the entire bill, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0252par0213	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, don't insist, I'll make this very short, I won't make it any longer. I mean, your insistence is too much, you want to listen to me, but I won't talk to you too much. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding Bill 222. On this occasion, I salute you all. His words and actions are a sign of consistency between what he thinks and what he does. People can only make others believe what they believe. You can't do politics over values. Common values deserve mutual loyalty. The actions of those who share the meaning are expected to be shared. People who cost a nation, who represent a culture, and who fermented the founding yeast of an empire, deserve all kinds of respect. There's no magic formula to hold together societies whose history, beliefs and values are allocated, whose continuities and connections are disconnected. Societys can only maintain their existence and unity by perpetuating their values, savings, experiences. Here's a big case man like Sheikh Edebali, whom we're talking about today, the name of a great man of faith to the University of Bilecik, would be the most concrete sign of such a connection. I can't help but say that Edebali says: count your mother and your ancestor. Know that the blessings are with the great ones. If you lose faith in this world, you'll turn green into barren deserts. And he says: "Have pity on those three who are ignorant, those who are poor when they are rich, and those who lose their dignity when they remember. Remember, those who hold high positions are not as secure as those who are in power as they are in the opposition. That is what our Lord has enjoined on us today. First of all, Sheikh Edebali is a man of faith, of the people's literature, of the faith, of the tradition, of their problems, of the ages. So, in that sense, I thought about it, and I offered to name this Sheikh Edebali as Sheikh Edebali University, and you refused, and you refused. Now, I'd like you to ask yourself how you rejected it, and this motion was rejected by the votes of members of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) Commission on the Commission. Twenty days later, our friends agreed to change the name of AKP Commission members Bilecik University to Sheikh Edebali University. I congratulate you all on your change in 20 days.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0253par0219	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0254par0220	Mr. Nurettin Demir will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0253par0221	Mr. Iron, please come in.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0255par0223	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I thank you for keeping you, of course, lovingly, patiently waiting at this hour of the night. You know, I had a lot of accidents yesterday, a murder. A fellow physician in Gaziantep was, unfortunately, stabbed to death in the back at the age of 28. Of course, I ask God's mercy to the physician, and my condolences to his family and to the health workers. Mr. President, you know, this college name thing has been pretty rough. The names of four universities have either been changed or renovated. Unfortunately, the proposal for a change of name for the People's Party Group and for the University of Muğla as MPs was not taken into consideration by the Commission. The University of Muğla, you know, is a very large campus, one of the most beautiful universities in the Aegean region. About 26 to 27,000 students are currently studying, and Stifkı Koçman has provided huge support, with a support of approximately 80-100 trillions, after Izzet Avant University...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0256par0226	Izzet Baysal...
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0255par0227	Yes, Bolu... Sıtki Koçman, who was approximately the biggest source of resources after that university, unfortunately, has made a public and permanent request to be given his name to the University of Mugla, but our offer has not been considered. Of course, I wish we'd given the name of our respected human being to the University of Mughla. I'm so sorry that it didn't work out. We made an offer on the Commission, and we brought it here as an offer on the General Assembly. I'm afraid this change of name at the University of Mughla has not been made. The University of Muğla has about 27,000 students, 10 universities, 12 universities. I've come to the very negative issues, especially in public, of what we've been going through recently about education, the problems Turkey and our country have been through. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I particularly expected to address this issue here, and especially as lawmakers of the ruling party, I would expect the opposition to consider their proposals. I don't want to get carried away. I made a promise to draw your attention to this particular matter here, to draw the attention of the House. I hope, in the future, I thank you for listening to me, thinking that our Parliament will take into account our efforts to truly name the name of this precious human being, our efforts to continue. Good evening.
tbmm-2012-04-18sit05spe0257par0234	[[Applause]] Anybody want to ask a question? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CHANGE IN THE COUNSEL OF HIGH SCHOOL PRODUCTIONS ISBN 1-28/3/1983 and 2809 added the following clause to the Law on Higher Education Institutions. EK MADDE 144- In Istanbul, a foundation university was founded by İbrahim Arıkan Education and Science Research Foundation under the name MEF University, which has a public corporate personality, in accordance with the provisions of the 2547 Law on Higher Education and Higher Education. This university is based on the presidency; A) From the Faculty of Education, B) From the Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, C) From the Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, ) From law school, d) From the university of applied sciences, e) from the Institute of Sciences, F) From the Institute of Social Sciences, is formed. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The title of Article 2-2809 of the Law and the first joke of the University of Bilecik have been changed into the University of Sheikh Edebali. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The title of Article 107 of Law 3-2809 and the first joke of the University of Gazikent have been changed to the University of Hasan Kalyoncu. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The 80th rank of the higher education board, universities and Institutes of Higher Technology, has been changed as follows, as follows, as follows, of the Covenant of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 (II) dated 4-10/12/2003. (80) Bilecik Sheikh Edebali University I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 5-21/12/2011 and the 2012 Central Management Budget Law No. 6260, dated 2/9/1983, and referred to the University of Bilecik Edebali in the Supreme Court of Higher Educations 78, dated 13/12/1983, and on the Supreme Court and its Constitution of 190. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 6- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 7-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the entire bill to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The bill has been adopted and legalized. God bless you. Members of parliament, according to the decision made, it is Monday (April 23rd 2012) at 14 p.m. for talks on the 92nd anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the celebration of the National Sovereignty and Children's Day. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
