tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Surprise! Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to three members of parliament off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Abdulkerim Gök, who wants to talk about the latest developments in the Southeast Anatolia Project under regional development policies and new approaches. Here you go, Mr. Sky. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] My dear fellow lawmakers, if you can ease the hum in the General Assembly, I haven't opened up our friends who are going to speak off the agenda yet -- let's hear more of their work. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0002par0014	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, I have taken an off-the-top promise of developments in the GAP, which have caught up with our beloved nation watching us at the beginning of the screen, regional development policies, especially in the pre-Republic intellectual sense of the republic. On this occasion, I salute you all. Sir, at the very beginning of my words, I'd like to speak with two thanks. My first thank you, from day one, to day one, to all those who put regional development policy and especially GAP development on the agenda, project it, discuss it, take it into their agendas, continue it in whatever way, in all bureaucratic developments, and, politically, produce it and follow it. And I also want to thank the AK PARTI governments and all of our fellow Prime Ministers, who, in particular, have caught the conclusion phase, and have come to the point where it is important to consider that the contribution to employment at the GAP is one of our country's most important problems at the point of employment, would be great, and I would like to thank the EC PARTI governments and the Prime Minister, all of our colleagues, who have done all the work. Dear lawmakers, when we call it regional development policies, of course, the GAP scope is an important project within its own framework, which will mark perhaps the last century, along with the republic. Once the GAP is complete, our province will be the center of Şanlıurfa, and we will have a very important location at the job site. Our success here in the GAP, as we have come to the point where we think that nearly 80 percent of it will be completed, and when we think of all the topics that we can think of as being the largest farm here, with 1,786 thousand hectares of land that will come in with the completion of the mined land, and of course, cultural tourism in our province, cultural tourism, as well as cultural tourism, when all of the topics that we can count on in order to move forward, will be a very important contribution to Shanghai. Here, of course, the GAP has brought great experience to Turkish engineers and especially to these engineers who will contribute greatly to this construction site. Here, along with another regional development policy called the GAP, the DAP, the KOP, the Plain of Conium, of course, the regional development policies will be put into effect. The GAP experience will also reflect the success of the GAP. When we look at it in total, the GAP is not to be evaluated by the logic of cotton, just by the carrying out of the watery project. In the concept of integration, especially the economic, political, social, and political processes of the Gap. So in nine cities under the GAP, when we look at the data before this project was implemented in an integrated framework, when we look at it in education, when we look at health, when we look at all the investments at the infrastructure of public investments, the data really has been turned upside down here. In a positive sense, these data are now expected to increase by 209 per cent, especially in the cities within the GAP, with the completion of the GAP. So we're saying that, in the coming period, the region will really be a very important area in the future of attraction centers, in the completion of the Suruç Watering Project in the districts of Şanlıurfa. Now, let the area out, let the workers go out, let the workers go out, the area will actually take migrations from outside, transfer workers from the outside. It will no longer be enough to meet them, of course, and as of the region, developments in the region will contribute greatly to Turkey's economy and from there to the world's economy. On this occasion, I salute the great Parliament.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Kaplan, I'll give you my word now, but you're in something.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0004par0025	I'd like word on the GAP.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0003par0026	Which one should we do first? You guys get off the agenda. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan, who wants to talk about the anniversary of the Silopi losses. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0005par0030	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were detained and lost 12 years ago on 25 January 2001. All the evidence of that day has been documented. At that time, 2001 was a period of withdrawal from the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) from the border, when the weapons were silent, and there were no incidents. We want to draw attention to that. However, when the name Levent Ersöz, who served there as commander of the Gendarme Regiment, is carefully examined, he appears to be the head of these losses. Taskın, the good boy who was also involved in the incident, Veysel Fire, who had been questioned and tried in this case, would not have been involved in the bombing at Şemdinli, and was sentenced to two jumps and forty years in Şemdinlı. He is now under arrest, and, for some reason, he was not investigated beyond Fırat, and despite dozens of petitions and complaints about these losses, not a word was asked by the special court prosecutors. Şırnak Governorate denied it for six days at that time, but admitted that they had gone to the gendarmes six days later. On the other hand, Serdar Hanım filed complaints against both the Prime Minister, the presidency, the Ministry of Interior and Justice and the Diyarbakır republic's prosecutors. Turkey has been sentenced to life violations in the European Court of Human Rights and to the person's safety and freedom, and then to the capture of Levent Ersöş, the brothers and sisters of Serdar, very interestingly, all their brothers and sisters became lawyers for this case. Look, Abdulhekim Meet lawyer, Sedat Meet lawyer, War Meet lawyer, Idris Meet lawyer, and their wives are lawyers of these friends. Despite the fact that they've followed this case to the end, unfortunately, despite the reports they've made, they're not taking a step in the face of the appeals they've made, because the State's Attorney's Office has made its decision on October 17, 2011, as it does not investigate true perpetrators and murderers despite all evidence. Now, we call to power: since you're very sincere, you're going to question them about these unsolved murders, the secret witness here says these people committed this murder. Again, prosecutors seek the excuse that they can't question because of their health. Is that even possible in the state of law? Friends, three days before this incident, they threatened my brother in my district, they tried to take my nephew, and when they wanted to take my nephew, I called the Attorney General there. He said, "We don't know." He said, "We don't know." He said, "We don't know." I knew this person had a lot of people in custody. There, the ranger also took their heads and even caused the murder of Osman Demir. There, as a lawyer, let me express my desperation to you: Go to my family, to everyone, to the door of the police station, there is lawlessness, there is lawlessness, and if he tries to do so, then do so. These people, these killers, they're in all their papers. I invite the government. Let your special prosecutors go and question Levent Ersöz, who has been under arrest for two years, and let him answer for it. We're calling it in. With this off-the-book conversation, we reminisce about them. We strongly condemn such massacres and murders. And I'd like to rephrase that sooner or later. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0006par0040	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In the name of the government... No answer? Okay.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0007par0043	What will the government say?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0006par0044	The third unresolved statement belongs to Mr. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash MP who wants to talk about the problems of Kahramanmarash Province. Here you go, Mr. Dedeoğlu.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0008par0048	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise regarding the problems of Kahramanmarash. I salute your high council. Imagine a city that first occupied the city before the Battle of Salvation, and then the first spark of the Battle of Salvation was sparked by the British, then by the French, by the city's own means and by the technology at the time, by expelling the British and the French from its city, and by throwing them out of the city. Ever since the Republic, Kahramanmarash has solved his own problems. For his success in the Battle of Salvation, the Grand Assembly rewarded the people of Kahramanmarash and Kahramanmarash with the Red Stripe Medal of Istrial by the Veteran Assembly. After the history of the Republic, in economic terms, the Kahramanmarash had been built into Sumerbank and the sugar factory. Sumerbank has been privatized over the past period, and our sugar factory in Elbia was privatized a month before that. The fate of our workers there and of our staff is now uncertain. In 1984, Kahramanmarash became an industrial city of Kahramanmarash, producing and exporting with encouragement to Kahramanmarash and to that region. Also in 1991, at an airport of 940 meters, with the type of foot, Kahramanmarash had reached its first airport, and then the city had reached an airport of 1,800 metres of its own means, and then developed to become its current state, but its technology is very backward to the Veteransmarash. In terms of health and education, Kahramanmarash is in the final stages of Turkey. Unfortunately, I regret to inform you that Kahramanmarash is still in many neighborhoods today, there are no schools, there are merged schools, students in classrooms of 40, 50, and I say again, unfortunately, our container schools are in Kahramanmarash. Our university was founded in 1992, far behind according to colleges founded at that time. Again -- I said the hero solves his own problem -- our contractors helped him grow up in our university, and last week, he was laid out to do a chapter of our contractor. There are three entrances to Kahramanmarash, Kayseri-Heromanmarash, Kahramanmarash-Gaziantep Road, Kahramanmarash-Adana Road. Unfortunately, these roads have been going on for 17 years, and they still haven't been finished. However, Elbia, Göksun, Afşin, Andirin, Ekinözü, Nurhak, Çağluçerit, Türkoğlu and Pazarcık are not the roads, towns, and village roads are unfortunately not desirable. I'd just like to give you an example from our counties: The asphalting rate of our Andirın district is 5 percent, unfortunately, I regret to say. Our nine martyrs lie in Elbia-Afşin, still uncertain, how will they come out? Again, if authorized, the people of Kahramanmarash will remove these nine of our mission martyrs with their own hands. And don't let anyone doubt it, as long as you know what's going to happen. Kahramanmarash is surrounded by dams, but unfortunately, our water channels are not being built, they are falling behind, the plains of Turkoğlu are waiting for water. And was there no investment in Kahramanmarash during this period? Of course it's done. There was a Kahramanmarash State Hospital 20 kilometers outside the city and a Dental Hospital four kilometers outside the city. These are on the fault line on the Adıyaman-Ghost-Heromanmarash-Eoval line, and there's not a single study of the earthquake, and I hope they'll be strengthened. One of our ministers comes and goes under the name Study, and we are very pleased, and I hope that during this period, these problems will be solved by the coming and going of our ministers, Kahramanmarash. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the point where our 81 provinces and Kahramanmarash are producing and exporting, Kahramanmarash tells us that we are ready for whatever duty is in the name of the National Party of Action, and I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you, Mr. Dedeoğlu. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0010par0068	Mr. President, I've been promised an update on the GAP. Whosoever kills a pickax and serves a servant, God bless him? This is for all of Turkey. However, over the past 40 years, from the aim of watering 1,862 hectares of land from 1 million to 2002, up to 1680,000 hectares were watered by the AKP's power, and in the AKP period, it increased by 11%, despite nearly 16 billion from the unemployment fund in ten years. The real purpose of the GAP is to water 1,862 hectares of land in these 40 years, and that is the truth. Whoever fulfills this truth, God bless him, but whoever does not fulfill his responsibility, we will continue to make constructive criticism here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, it didn't go beyond 17 percent.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0011par0073	Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0012par0075	Mr. President, thank you. I was taken into custody 11 years ago and still untraceable. In fact, the perpetrator is so clear and clear, because at that time they were invited to the barracks, and while Levent Ersak and our two friends were being taken there, a group of our party friends accompanied and entered the barracks and never returned. Now, the commander in charge of that barracks is being tried today by Ergenekon. Their relatives and we want to be involved, but even so, our right to intervene is being hijacked, and all the applications of these families are being rejected. Now, facing the past from one side... those caught red-handed are the ones responsible for the deaths of our people.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0011par0077	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research; I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In view of the unsolved killings and losses in our country, the testimony of former soldiers and police officers, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, for the discovery and trial of perpetrators. During the first day of the Kurdish problem, 40,000 of our people have died, millions of people have emigrated, thousands of villages have been burned down, hundreds of billions of dollars lost. The perpetrators of most of the deaths have still not been found, and the current government has not taken any steps to do so since 2002. In a period of 12 years from 1990 to 2002, there were 17500 unsolved murders in the region that turned into chaos. Unsubstantiated murders are causing influxes in societies. The murder fair, which began in 1980 after the coup, became unstoppable with the discovery of the Kurdish problem, poses a major obstacle to the development of democracy. The 17500 unsolved murders were composed of Kurdish businessmen, journalists, writers, politicians and lawyers who were abducted at the time. Some of these people have been found dead, some of them still haven't been found. In 2009, the death wells opened in Silvio gave birth to the hope that the families of the missing people would have "maybe bones found and have graves" for their families. As we can see from the statements of retired commanders and policemen today, the unsolved murders that took place in the '90s were described as the necessity of the era. We're all reminded of the statements retired Admiral Attila Kıyat made regarding the unsolved murders. His statement states that he believes that "the murders committed in the 1990s could have been carried out by command." We all know very well that it is not by nature that soldiers who have risen to the rank of Vice Admiral should make such statements without concrete indicators. In recent years, former Special Ops Officer Ayhan Wheelin, convicted of Susurlik's trial, has found his statements widely in the media about these murders. He explained with one name that they had committed the murders and with whom they had committed these murders, "that their superiors had taken orders from Mehmet Agar and İbrahim Şahin himself and had them perform them as well." Ayhan Karakın often referred to the names "Ibrahim Şahin, Mehmet Agar, Doğan Wrestling and Tansu Ciller" in his statements, which somehow linked these names to the murders. "It is the executions carried out within the knowledge of Mehmet Agar and İbrahim Şahin," he said, referring to the death list of Kurdish businessmen who were killed. In his last statement to the prosecutor, İbrahim Şahin said they had "the list of Kurds to kill," and said, "If there is an illegal structure, go to Mehmed Agar and ask him." Finally, İstanbul Special Chief Public Prosecutor Hakan Karaali has decided not to follow up on the request of the Perpa massacre on the confessions of former Special Operations Police Ayhan Çarkin and to reopen the investigation into Ayhan Efeoglu's claim of loss, saying "These are not a criminal organization for interest or terrorist organization," and in a manner protecting Mehmet Agar. Therefore, those responsible for the period must be brought to trial immediately. In order to find perpetrators of unsolved murders, an effective legal process is required, by establishing the Parliamentary Research Commission for this process to work quickly and well, exposing perpetrators is an obligation to become a state of law. [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the incidents in Karliova district of Bingol province on July 28th, a village guard was killed by an armed man in an attack by the rangers in the district: one workplace completely and 17 workplaces were seriously damaged. The house of the BDP district building and the head of the BDP district has been burned down and the municipality of Karliova has been stoned to death. In order to clarify the facts of this incident, I would ask that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, so that both those responsible for the burning of our homes and party buildings may be determined and compensated for the damage and that the victimhood in Karliova may not be moved to advanced dimensions. On 28/07/2011, in the Karliova district of Bingol, around 3:20 p.m., in an attack by an armed man, the village of Taşlıçay (Cırrik) was killed by Ranger head Hadji Alan. After the killing of Ranger Hadji Alan, the village of Taşlıçay raided the district centre of Karlıova, firing at houses and businesses at random in the district centre, making physical attacks on the surrounding people. The work of public and NGOs related to these events reveals negligence in the case. These neglects were primarily carried out by the Governor of Bingol, Bingol Police Director, Karliova District Governor, Karliova District Police Commissioner and Karliova Public Prosecutor. During a meeting with the mayor of Bingöl, civil society agencies have declared that the governor has taken full responsibility, but it has been concluded that the security forces, who did not intervene in the time of the attack, did not even go to collect the evidence and the Karliova Kaymakamam, who claimed to have obtained most of the evidence from security forces, were watching the attacks with the Republican Prosecutor, as well as the security forces that left the people of the district at the mercy of the guards, are in the light terms of the law. In addition, reports from the district centre five minutes after confirmation of the incident against my side during the Bingöl Governor's phone call during the incident continued to burn homes and businesses. Mr. Ferit Çelik, mayor of Karliova County, was in Antalya for a seminar on the day of the incident. As soon as I heard the news, I called the governor-in-law, then the county police commander. My brother-in-law didn't answer my phone, and the captain got busy. When I called the governor of Bingol, he said he'd be on his way to the scene. When I interrupted my schedule and returned to Karliova, I asked the police commissioner for the transcripts. Tell me, "You shouldn't have killed the Ranger." he did not write the transcripts. Because I told the press that my governor wasn't answering my phone, my governor was reproaching us and taking a stand, using his statements. "When we heard the shots, we closed our shop and went home. A friend who was looking for me at the time told me that the rangers came to burn down our business called Paris Clothing. Along with a village ranger named Behcet, another ranger, whose name I don't know, broke the gas can, the windows of our workplace, and burned our shop to the ground. Reinforcements from Bingol were also in the district when this happened. When they set fire to our shop, the police watched it happen. The rangers stopped the city's fire truck from putting out the fire, while the police were there watching. The police then tried to intervene in the fire with a fire extinguisher just once, just for show. This shop I work for is insured for $250,000, and our losses are around $600,000." The testimony of both witnesses and NGO reports reveals the negligence, intent and unlawfulness of the incident. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct a parliamentary investigation in order to avoid such dire events, as well as to clarify the incident. [[Bingöl]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose the establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission in accordance with Article 104th and 105th Articles of the 98th and 105th Amendments of the Constitution, in order to determine the negative effects of animal imports throughout Turkey and to determine the necessary measures to be taken immediately. Turkey is a suitable country for animalism and is provided for by small heads and/or cattle, depending on the conditions in our rural areas. As of 1991, our number of living animals and therefore our production of meat has dropped significantly. As of 2007, the policy of supplying with imported animals has brought animalism almost to an end. Although there has been an increase in efficiency in cattle breeding, this increase is not enough to satisfy the lack of animals that are outnumbered. The data from the Turkish statistical institution in August 2011 show that the total production of red meat decreases by 18.1% compared to the same month of the previous year, which suggests that policies in order to increase the presence of living animals have no significant benefits. Meanwhile, our country's population has increased, the public's awareness of nutrition has improved, and the number of tourists who have come to our country in recent years has grown significantly. Although the number of living animals in Eastern Anatolia is increasing today, local livestock in Thrace, Asia Minor, has declined. The excessive concentration of animal imports has given birth to herds of animals waiting to be cut off. This creates negative effects on both the environment and our country's economy, especially in Thrace, and causes diseases that can harm local animals. The factors that play an important role in animalism coming to these points today are: - Agricultural Ministry's search for a unilateral solution to central management and the issue, instead of localized and research, has not received the necessary support from existing organisations, - The milk industry's effect on livestock and livestock is on the dairy industry (milk prices are low and feed prices are high). The following should be considered; • Analyzing systems of milk and meat in EU countries that we import • preventing consumption of milk powder, encouraged to melt the annual milk production surplus, and providing exports to foreign markets • Increase milk consumption in the country by implementing school milk and military milk • Expansion of customs walls in imports of dairy powder and similar products (such as ice food) to prevent • Internal processing regime (D. I. The imports of duty-free milk powder and cheese-water powder under R.) are removed and, if necessary, special incentives for boosting the milk industry's competitiveness in foreign markets • Protecting the milk industry under the register, eliminating the production of dairy under the stairs - The lack of territorial growth systems, the decline of mera presence, the lack of natural resources and the improvement of environmental conditions, - The absence of measures to maintain the supervision of domestic manufacturers related to animal sacrifices, - The lack of a stable meat price policy, the fact that imports don't reflect cheap and quality meat and meat to consumers, - With its import policy, the pressure of animal and meat prices to completely remove animal producers from the industry and to bring out dependency to the point of no return in the near future, - With animal imports and disease in Thrace, which is a region of disease, - It's a disregard for the negative consequences of the abandonment of livestock and rural development. In light of the above issues, it is important for the future of animalism and the development of agriculture and a research commission that will enable integrated planning and strategy with institutions, organisations and existing organisations to increase the presence of large and small living animals and reduce imports to minimal levels. [[Edirne]] 2) Mehmet Siam Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[40s.]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 7) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 8) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] 10) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Niğde]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Eskişehir]] 16) Haluk Ahmet Silver [[Balıkesir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Ankara]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Amasya]] [[Army]] [[Let's go.]] [[Malatya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Edirne]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Prime Minister's office has a statement issued according to Article 92 of the Constitution, which I will read and process first and then submit to your votes. The United Nations Security Council decisions adopted in 2008 on piracy/sea banditry and armed robberies in areas of the Arab Sea and mujavir, the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Aden and Somalia and its gaps, and its active participation in the international community of the Turkish Armed Forces in its decisions dated 10/2/2009 and its 934 decree, which ensured that the naval elements of the Turkish Flag and Turkish-connected ships are placed in the areas in these areas, and established our role in the region. The Turkish Armed Forces decision 934, which allows naval elements to function in the region, is finally extended by a year by 7/2/2011 and will end on 10/2/2012. On the other hand, the UN Security Council's decisions, which responded to the ongoing piracy of piracy and armed robbery in the Indian Ocean, have been extended for a year with the resolution dated 22/11/2011 and the international community. In this scope, I submit the extension of the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces from the Aden Bay, Somali territorial waters and deficits, in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, under the principle and basis set in the TBM resolution 10/2/2009, dated 10/2/2012, to be assigned to the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. For the sake of the groups, only the Peace and Democracy Party has a voice request. Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP, please come in, sir. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0284	Dear lawmakers, of course, I would like to make it clear to you on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group against this thesis that we are opposed to sending troops abroad for merchant ships in the past and in every thesis meeting, and of course we have expressed our vote. Now, the same dissertation has come to us today. Now, the next thing I know, I've looked at the ruling party, and I've looked at the main opposition and the DP, and they're not applying.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0014par0286	It's up to you to defend!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0287	I don't understand your reluctance, your reluctance. Why didn't you report it as a speaker when you had so many friends? It started with the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Of course, we'll talk about some facts, friends, and we'll keep talking. Our Somali case has gotten bigger. We're following. We're also monitoring the Turkish ship's record. Who wins ships, ships, trades, transports, transports, transports, and who do we send warships to protect, protect their interests, protect them from who? Of course, Somalia had our government's help. You know, for starving babies, there was a name on TV that was very popular, even Nihad or whatever, he took her to Somalia, the government, as famous as they are. And then others went to help hungry children in Somalia, under the campaign for peace. Now we're sending warships to Somalia. What an oxymoron, my friends. So we're sending our warships against Somali pirates, opening campaigns to help the hungry. After that, we serve the interests of the great nations of the United Nations Security Council. When our citizen puts his tax in the treasury, when he says spend my tax, does he say pay the treasure to protect the interests of those who trade in this ship and raise the budget of the National Department of Defense, the budget of military spending for this? There are less than 20 million people in Turkey, under the poverty line, under the 3 million people under the hunger limit, and we have people under the age of starvation, just like people living in Somalia. Now why is there a NATO force armed? Why can't NATO protect it? Why can't NATO protect it against the three pirates in front of Somalia in the Gulf of Aden? Really, why can't he? I'd like to ask you why we're sending soldiers from here, a warship. Who does this country serve? Who are you going to associate with this decision? Whose ships will you benefit from, whose trade will you protect? Come on, guys! This rash friendship is not a good sign. This rash friendship has become a bomb in Uludere, and it has rained upon the people. Bombshells can replace aid packages in Somalia at any time. It's like crossing a line bridge like this. We are exhibiting an example of the opposition in charge here. So if you don't send a warship there now... we call it the Peace and Democracy Party, you don't report the cost of that ship to the House; you don't report how many soldiers have gone; you don't report how much money has been spent. Private security is being set up all over the place. Here's to the world that globalises its trade, and the private security of the shipping trade. Why do we send the tax from here to the Gulf for the pleasure of a few armators? Let the corn come from Malaysia, and let the goods of the GMO come, and let them come, and let them trade, and let them take the contract, and let them cross the border, and let them profit, and let us protect them. Friends, do you know what happened in Iran and Hürmuz Bay? Do you have any idea why the warships are out there? Why can't the United States, or NATO, send warships there during a period when oil was redesigned, energy was redesigned; Italy, France, and the Mediterranean countries were buying oil from Iran in 35 per cent of Europe? I'm asking you. So the three pirates in Somalia surrendered to the entire United States of America, NATO? You mean NATO and America on their knees in front of three pirates? From here, he wants warships from Turkey. We're going to raise our hands here with the Prime Minister's recommendation: Here we are, our warships. Go to Somalia. What are you going to do? E, there are pirates there, catch the pirates. So, what are the pirates doing? Pirates shoot merchant ships passing through, get paid, demand ransom, something. Guys, this is a piece of cake. So the most growing power in Turkey's hands is the power that can be exported the most, but the power that has been exported to its detriment has begun to become an army of naval forces, air forces and land forces. Where do you need soldiers? We needed Korea, we sent it to Korea. Now we need Afghanistan, we're sending it to Afghanistan. We have soldiers in Lebanon, we have soldiers in Somalia. I mean, we're in a global crisis, and I'm asking the General Assembly if we have to be the keepers of global capital, so really, I mean... let the merchant take his safety, brother, and I don't care about the money he makes, I don't care about the whole world business going through that bay. If the United Nations, the Security Council, if NATO doesn't provide that security, I don't send ships to this security, I don't send soldiers. This country has no interest in it, this country has its harm, its expense. Well, that's clear now. Why do you have to be friendly, why do you really think you need to be so similar about these things, we're having a hard time understanding? Look, about the ships... don't you know about the cyberworld, the software world, the software industry, the computer, all that? Well, look at the Internet in front of you, go through the House, go to Google. If you want to see a pirate ship off the coast of Sudan, Somalia, you can see from here, e, you can see that it's so advanced, so sophisticated, so sophisticated, so developed in IT, so developed. D.C. shows up all over the place, where he knows which pirates eat what kind of shrimp. I mean, now, can't anyone who knows this stop it? Is it up to us to be the carabinieri of the world? Send in one soldier at a time, send in a force, and after that, our soldiers, whom we sent for their ship, died for the cause of the country. No, guys, that's not gonna happen. It's not like that anywhere in the world. He doesn't care about human rights, he doesn't care about democracy, he doesn't care about the state of law, he only knows what's in it for him. The capital has no religion, no ethnity, no religion, no religion, no money, no money, no money! Like Napoleon, he thinks of nothing but money. Why are you sending warships to these mercenaries? From here, we call on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group: Why are you sending them away, brother? There's a lot to talk about here. We're looking at five years of unresolved action on Somali pirates, and the ships are still leaving. So if our ships don't go, the ships won't be able to trade in Somalia. Let him go, go to the center of Diyarbakir, for God's sake... Four more skulls removed. The Minister of Culture says: "I'm going to build a museum for the Ministry of Tourism. The Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is going to talk about interesting things when skulls are rising in the center of JITEM. Ya, the concerned Minister of Interior isn't going, the Minister of Justice isn't going; the co-ordinator in charge of staff, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay isn't going. What if it was the '90s, that time... Everyone, everything is clear. While you can't provide safety in your own country, when it's obvious that the life-slayers are the ones responsible for the JITEM. You'll go and fight the pirates in Somalia when you can't account for them!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0015par0295	Who's paying for all this? Who's taking these off? It is We who bring them forth, and We are the Reckoners.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0296	Yeah, laugh at you guys, laugh at you, laugh at you. You trade for everything. Now, look, stop trading everything. The Prime Minister's got a bad temper, too. Behold, they slew Moses Anter, and Ape Moses, at the center of the JITEM. Look, I'll tell you something. All the names and addresses of those who slaughtered Ape Moses at the center of JITEM have been given, and the confessors have testified. Did you call them to testify one day? Did a prosecutor, a private police, a private court call them to testify? What are these skulls, these 24 skulls, these are people, these are citizens of the lost Republic of Turkey? What did you do to protect them? Look at the media. In the media, I'm ashamed, I'm ashamed. Look, today the headline of the Radical News says: "Anter Anter came forty years later and visited his father's grave. " Yes, that shame is fitting for Turkey. Why couldn't he come? Why couldn't Anter Anter enter Turkey during your ten-year reign? You've put a curfew at the Police Department. For forty years, you have imposed a ban on this person because he attended the 1st of May in 69. We filed a lawsuit.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0016par0299	Who opened the doors? Who took these? Who extends these freedoms?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0300	Look, listen, listen, look, listen, listen. Look, we've filed a lawsuit against this one. Admin court...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0016par0301	Who democratized Turkey?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0302	Wait a minute, listen, listen...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0017par0303	Mr. Ünal, please, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0304	Now, I'm going to blow the whistle, I'm going to bust the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0018par0305	You'll show up, but we don't have anything, praise be to God.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0017par0306	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0307	Now, we've filed a lawsuit against the administration court -- I was his attorney at the time -- and we've filed a lawsuit against the European Court of Human Rights. After 2006, I became a deputy, my office... maintains lawyers in Istanbul. They wrote to the Prime Minister, the President, the Police General Directorate, reminded them of the case filed in the ECHR, and said: "This citizen can't read a Fatiha in his father's grave. Do you know what letter came from the Ministry of Interior to our office? For a month, 30 days, other bans can come and visit his father's grave on the condition that they remain hidden. You've even used this, it's shameful, it's shameful! In Kurdish, it's called a...a...a...a...a...a...a. It's a shame, don't do it; it's not the use of human rights, beliefs, exiles, the model of the coup d'états of September 12th, the laws of the coup d'état of September 12th, the bans of September 12th coups, the practices of September 12th coup against our people, and the persecutions of our people. Now, for God's sake, you're a citizen of your own... (*) In these chapters, non-English words were expressed by the Minister.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0019par0309	Mr. President, we're talking about the Gulf of Aden, what does this have to do with anything, sir?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0310	You will not be able to provide the safety of any Somalis in Somalia, in the Gulf of Eden, without providing safety for your citizens. A power that can't answer for its skulls on its own soil, a power that can't run its justice, that's...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0019par0311	We ask, we ask! You're feeding off those skulls!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0020par0312	Mr. Ünal, please, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0313	You're boners, boner! The bones come out, but they don't make power, and by chance, they come out on a dig by the Memorial Board. Look, it's the confessionals, the bones are coming out. We put a cross around the neck of the İmam and tortured him to death in the Gölumlı village of Silopi. These commanders are walking around. Which one did you ask for? The funerals of five of our citizens buried in their clothes in the strong house. They're responsible one by one, the officers. Which one did you call to testify? Look, brother, you can't call these killers. As soon as you start calling, it comes to you, it comes to your friends inside of you. You have ministers in you, you have governors in you, you have deputies in you, responsible for the murders of September 12th, the murders of 90. So you can't go beyond Fırat, so you don't run this justice, so only bones come out, DNA is made, prosecutors don't work. Your prosecutor, your police, works only for BDP, works for our legal party, works for our party's activities; works for art, culture, intellectuals, academics; works for pop, works for thought, works for pencils, works for an egg, works for an egg, works for a canvas, works for a canvas, works for an aunt, works for a nevruz; works for legal identity, culture, works for Kurdish identity, works for Kurdish figures, but you're in silence. O Lord, what is the source of your peace? Why don't your prosecutors identify the officers of that period? Why don't your prosecutors raid the BDP people's homes because they're from the KCK? Why don't you just raid the book writer's house, who doesn't even publish books, and then raid the killer's house?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0021par0315	Don't shout, don't scream. Calm down. Don't shout.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0316	Why don't you let him in? Why don't you ask him for it? Get out of here! Will someone who does not protect his citizen in Turkey send a ship to defend him against the pirate in Somalia? Have fear of God. Have fear of God. So what you're doing is... Look, take a good look at these pictures. Let your responsible ministers go to JITEM headquarters. I've just talked about the loss of Silvio, I've talked about the missing HDEP, we've counted their names. Oh, for God's sake, what's your mother's name, your father's name? You were in charge of this date, and two people disappeared. Doesn't he ask? Why the silence? Why is that forbidden? Why is he so determined about my investigation? Why are you so determined to cover yourself up? Why do you insist on rejecting these unsolved murder investigations? What's going on, guys? We need some sense of justice in this country, some justice, some humanity. What if you went to Somalia and sent ships to two naked pirates in the 800,000 square metres of 74 million Turkey? What does it say? They write your justice in the air, write it on ice. They make fun, they make fun. Find me the perpetrators of 23 skulls at JITEM headquarters, brother. Grab hold of the commander who killed the imam with a cross around his neck.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0022par0321	Ask for the account of the imam killed by Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK).
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0322	Take out the perpetrators of the people who were killed, and judge me in the House of Power.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0022par0323	If you have a conscience, be fair.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0324	If that's the account, if that's the protection, if that's the law, if that's justice, if that's right.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0022par0325	Ask for Aziz Hodja's account.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0326	Don't keep this coven busy, don't tell stories to anyone. I ask you, and I invite you, and I invite you: let's go to these parliamentary research rules of skulls, to the Silopi-Eyed, to the strong host, to the acid wells in Silopi, to the lost graves in Cizre, to the Bitlis, to the city of Bitlis; let's go to Siirt Butchers Creek, and go everywhere. Whoever comes out of it, let's find those truths and ask them for answers. Come together. Let's do it for the sake of this country, for the sake of this country, for the sake of this country, without saying, "A, b, d," without telling you, from me, from him. Stop sending soldiers to Somalia and send ships. Who are you kidding? Don't let your ship pass by, dear.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0023par0329	Either you don't know the world's trade or you don't know the trade!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0330	Don't let your ship pass through, let it pass somewhere else. You're used to it, profitability, subtraction. Let go, it's a shame! I invite you to humanity. About the unsolved murders, I invite all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0023par0331	The world's center of commerce, commerce.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0332	I'd like to invite you all to visit the skulls at JITEM headquarters. Aren't there Turkish sailors on those ships? Come, come to the center of JITEM, into the castle, into the castle, into Diyarbakır. Let's go together, we'll investigate together. Let's pay for this.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0024par0335	Aren't there Turkish sailors on those ships?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0013par0336	We'll ask him, we'll answer for it. Don't worry, we'll ask. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0024par0339	Aren't there Turkish sailors on those ships? Aren't those Turkish ships?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0025par0340	Mr. President, don't tease our party...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0026par0341	Mr. Ünal, your time is three minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0025par0345	Mr. President, it is wise to speak with my mind, without provocation, without letting someone sabotage it. We would expect, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group to demonstrate his rage, his violence, with the same love, with the same enthusiasm for solving problems in the region. But when it comes to solving problems, you don't see these guys on the property when it comes to taking risks, putting them under the table. In this country for ten years, you can't see these friends fighting against gangs, fighting illegality, putting their body under stone, fighting out acid wells, evading villages, burning villages, destroying Turkey's democratic deficit, ending guardian politics in Turkey, developing freedoms in Turkey, improving human rights in Turkey. These friends of ours, unfortunately, you can't see them when the relatives of our murdered clergy, who were killed because they were cast out, burned, loved only by the people in the region, and joined with the people, shed tears. And unfortunately, from the moment one speaks, one begins to reveal its own mind contents, its own thoughts, its own heart. If there's no peace and democracy in your language as soon as you speak, it's just this sign. Peace and democracy are about the mind, the heart; freedoms are about action. For the solutions of this country, for the problems of this country, when the unity of this country is taken at risk for its unity, please move your political will to this parliament, and bring the demands of your constituents that you have taken the vote, the demands of freedom, the demands of prosperity, to this Parliament. You cannot see their political will when you say so. But when it comes to provoking, sabotaging, provoking, bleeding someone's wounds, bleeding their pain, you see them screaming. I invite these friends, these brothers and sisters, to hold their political will over and over again, and to reflect their political will on the House for a solution, not provocation and sabotage. I salute the House.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0027par0350	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0028par0351	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0027par0352	I'm going to make a promise now, Mr. Kaplan, but I'm asking you very personally, don't let this continue in such a pattern.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0028par0353	No, no, I just want to say something.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0027par0354	Look, I promise you, but I'm asking for something else. So it ends with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0028par0357	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Ünal, I'm splitting your findings in two. I agree with one part in my heart. It is our duty and responsibility to investigate these perpetrators, to face the truth and to submit them to the judiciary, no matter who they may be. We're with you, anyone who's sensitive about it, until the end, to get our hands on it. We're speaking from the bottom of our hearts. I'd like to point out something that's wrong here. We, after each death, after violence, both our parliamentary group and our party headquarters make a statement, and we explain our thoughts about these events from this stand and from where we sit all the time. It's no use to anyone in this regard to overcompensate the pain; one. Second, we are the opposition. Believe me, we're going to say things you don't like, and you're going to get mad at us. Your daughter's, but you've just shown a sensible approach. Come, let's take custody together. I promise, we're in. Come on, let's get the unsubs out. I promise, we're in. We want that, but let's be honest with each other, let's develop this dialogue. Believe me, Turkey will win from this. It doesn't matter if we win as a party. With all due respect, all parties have to carry these feelings as human beings. It's the need to be human. Perhaps because you're in power, perhaps the expectations of the opening process have made you more of an example, we may have a little bit more anger towards you, and understand that. Look, we also show our anger from time to time, our reaction to the main opposition, despite the opposition. I'm not saying anything. Sometimes when I say, "Don't look for error in what we say, "Ape Moses" when I say, "Investigating the perpetrators," do you see this? Anter Anter, the son of Musa Anter, who was sent to our office from Istanbul Security Directorate after the applications we made, is permitted to meet for humanitarian purposes, provided he remains hidden for 30 days. If the Prime Minister gave it to him, if the Chief Constable did it, it's always true, it's wrong to have this ban. That's what I'm talking about. Look, we've been fighting this for ten years. Look, look at our petitions, what we've told them. Look, this constitution is a chance for us, come, I promise you, we'll act with the same responsibility. At least we'll get together at these points, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0029par0363	Thank you. Iğdır MP Sinan Okan on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the Prime Minister's thesis. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0030par0371	Mr. President, I stand before you to explain to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party Group regarding the extension of the Turkish Armed Forces in the Arab Sea and in the mujavir regions of the Gulf of Aden, Somali territorial waters and open spaces. A speaker has just said that the National Movement Party has not applied for this issue. That's not true. The Parliamentary Council has given us authority. We considered two things first. First, unfortunately -- we have to consider these -- in TRT 3, the TRT 3, which should reflect the will of the Assembly at this time was being given game summarys from Bundesliga, and while we were discussing an important issue here, our nation was busy there watching game summarys. We're discussing at least a little bit of time, Parliament will be on TV, so we're discussing what our nation is doing in Congress, what's important, what's happening here, the deployment of troops, a year's extension of the dissertation, so that our people can see it, we've considered it appropriate to ask for words in the 2nd or 3rd place. Otherwise, of course, it's impossible for the National Movement Party not to have an opinion on such an important matter. On the other hand, we'd like to have our government, our Minister, or the government party present here first. What's been done for a year -- the last one that's been extended, and then there's an extension before that? What achievements have the Turkish Armed Forces achieved there? While you were out there extending that decision -- now you've come before the House to extend this decision, to extend the thesis -- so, what did we do? Isn't it as much the right of the Turkish people as our opposition party to know that? Nothing. It's just a review, and we're talking about this thesis here. But first, before asking for the support of the opposition, before asking for the support of the Turkish nation, you had to tell them. How many pirates have been captured, what has been done so far, what steps have been taken in the interest of the Turkish people, the Turkish people should know that. Recently, together with the President of Georgia, we have learned from television that our citizens, who have been there for 16 months, have been released. When we look at the Georgian press, we see that a serious deal with pirates is behind this release, a serious money paid to pirates. Well, if we're going to bribe pirates, if we're going to negotiate with pirates to save our citizens, then what's the point of this thesis? We need to ask what the Turkish soldier, his army, is doing there, paying thousands and millions of dollars of Turkish nation's taxes. The government, of course, is responsible. Now the Turkish military or his army are responsible. You can't throw away the political responsibility. Of course, speaking of the Turkish army, if a significant part of our Navy's generals are currently in prison, the people who have reached the top point of the Turkish Armed Forces, and by your signature, or, in fact, the people appointed by Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Gul Τe, are being tried today for leading the terrorist organization, then the moral power of the Turkish army there, and the success of the Turkish army there, must also be evaluated from this framework. The task zone where the thesis is extended is an important area. What areas are there? The Gulf of Aden. What country is there? Somalia. Somalia now has serious activities in Al Qaeda. We're talking about a place where some cities have been seized from time to time by Al Qaeda. What else you got there? There's the Arab Sea. The Arab Sea is located in a region of the world today where conflict will emerge. It says, "I will shut down the Horn of Hormuz." The European Union's sanctions for Iran follow, and the United States says it doesn't. What area does he say he's in? It's in the same area as our ships. So, this has to be explained here as well. If a war breaks out in the Horn of Hormuz, the Arab Sea, and in that region tomorrow, the possibility of a war is serious - what will be the position of our strength there? Or there should be an explanation here as to whether or not there will be a provocation against our naval power, what measures are being taken about it. Of course, the Turkish soldier who was sent there is primarily there to protect the safety of Turkish ships, where Turkish merchant ships are first located. Of course, Turkey will protect its safety, wherever it is in the world. That's what it takes to be a great government. Our citizen can't fall into the hands of someone there, the sea bandits, the pirates, of course. We're going to do that, but while we're doing that, we're going to make sure that Turkey doesn't face a provocation with one end there. Of course, if we're fighting against the pirates in Somalia, and we're fighting against Al Qaeda, and we're fighting against the United States, we're fighting against international terrorism, and we're with you here, and you're with us to fight against the PKK? Of course, in this sense, Turkey does not see the support of the West. Of course, I have to ask... We do not see the support of the West, but first we must return and take a look at ourselves. In the West, I suppose, when we ask him this, he'll say... he'll show us the Habur picture, show us how to negotiate with the PKK in the third countries. You're already negotiating. He'll say so. Therefore, it is of great benefit for us to reconsider our politics in this sense with the PKK, and in the fight against international terrorism. Speaking of the PKK, valuable lawmakers, we're coming into a process where Iraq is almost divided into threes today, and Iraq is about the size of a war that will trigger a war and trigger a war that will be pulled into Turkey. Until yesterday, those in need of Turkey's support are able to post mail to Turkey very freely today. The ones who were brothers until yesterday can be traitors in less than three months. This has to be explained here, too. You were holding joint Council of Ministers meetings yesterday. Yesterday, you were in charge of the security of the place, so what happened to them today is, don't interfere with our internal affairs, or we'll do what's necessary. Dear MPs, this failure of Turkey's foreign policy... believe me, Turkey has never faced such a failed foreign policy in its lifetime. If Turkey had followed a successful foreign policy as alleged today, Iraq would not have posted us -- if it were in that sense, again -- in that sense -- the French Senate would not have made those decisions against Turkey. Speaking of which, two days ago, a decision was passed against Turkey from the French Parliament, the Senate, but I'm looking at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm looking at the ruling party, and I can't see anything being done in that sense, unfortunately, I'd like to express my regret. There were group talks yesterday. At least in group talks, we watched the group talks carefully, hoping to be touched on, but we came across a speech that even the French newspaper mocked. The speech of the French Prime Minister was made a mockery of in LeFigaro, and those who spoke so dryly against France are trying to soften the mood. Why are we in this situation? Why have we been in a position to soften things up for France, and how have we fallen? I thought we were supposed to do these, why couldn't we? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this doesn't work with words. The subject, of course, is the Bay of Eden, and of course, is the extension of the thesis. We, the National Movement Party, will, of course, vote positively for Turkey to continue to protect its interests in that region. Because we believe that we are on his side as the National Movement Party, no matter where Turkey is in the world, no matter what its interests are. We don't make these things internal political material, we don't turn it into a power-to-responsibility contest. But in return, we expect power to follow a personality foreign policy. For God's sake - a decision in the French Parliament on December 22nd - how would the government approve of the South Stream Project, which has 15 per cent of the French company on December 28th? How can France reward him in that sense? How does this not affect our business relations? As you do so, these decisions are not limited to France, but to several European countries. We, the opposition party, must warn the National Assembly, your grand delegation. The 2015 process is coming in front of us, and this 2015 process is a process that will put Turkey in distress, and the process must be taken care of. But not by rewarding France, as in France, or by the day of the vote, but by the time the Minister of Foreign Affairs skis in Kayseri. This is a serious matter. This matter must be discussed here at the special session of the House. I'd like to bring one thing to your attention. Against France, we send ships to the Gulf of Aden, providing security for Somalia. Why can't we support these countries? We gave Libyan money so openly, to the opponents, those opponents are in power today. But why are Libyan opponents who came to power with our support not with Turkey in these important decisions? Why is Egypt not with Turkey? For Palestine, there are important reasons -- we almost went to war. Why didn't he back us up on this with one sentence? We are effective in the Turkish and Islamic Conference Organization, the Secretary General of the Islamic Conference. Why weren't we able to mobilize the Islamic Conference on this? Why didn't they call the leaders of the Turkish republics, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm afraid the government has a way of letting the matter run its course, and perhaps it's in your best interest. Why? Because you do infrastructure for things. After my lesson, we explained, "Is there an excuse for Armenians?" Are you preparing public opinion? Speaking of public opinion, even though it is Azerbaijan, who gave Turkey the biggest support today, we regret to see an Azerbaijan smear campaign being carried out in media organs near the government. Are you preparing for protocols again? Because earlier, when you brought up protocols, you had to back down because of Azerbaijan's reaction and the reaction of the Turkish public. Now, before this -- I remember Mr. Denktas again with mercy -- are you now trying to reduce Azerbaijan to the situation you have reduced Mr. Denktas? Don't you think we haven't seen you do psychological operations on the Turkish Cypriot's rightful case that you've made out of Turkish public opinion? With the same feelings and thoughts, did you now launch such a public trial against Azerbaijan? If Turkey is to fly, one is the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, one is Azerbaijan, one is the Islamic world, one is the Turkish world, but you have already forgotten the Turkish world. Thus, you also have trouble taking the support of the Turkish world from time to time. Why? Because you failed to embrace the Turkish world in that sense. This troubled incident in the Gulf of Eden is not expected to end soon. This has to be explained here on this occasion. The thesis is extended for a year, but does the government have a projection in that sense? What achievements have been achieved there against Somali pirates, and what projection do you have next? Will this be finished in three years or will it be finished in six months? Or is it in the interest of the United States of America to have a ship there somehow? With that military force there, will other feet of the Great Middle Eastern Project be activated tomorrow? Of course, these things need to be explained here, they need to be accounted for. We show a serious foreign policy weakness in Iraq. Iraq is on the verge of a conflict of sects, and Turkey's contribution in this is far too small, and Turkey's revolutionary game in Syria today continues at full speed. Tomorrow, perhaps when Turkey's revolutionary play in Syria is tried to perform in Iran, we will face the same view. Of course, it's not only going to be limited to these countries, but it's going to be reflected in the Gulf countries in the coming process, I guess it's not hard to imagine. Does Turkey have projections in this whole process? Do you intend to abandon an understanding that has changed from today to tomorrow on Turkey's foreign policy agenda? The world is doing 50 years of projections, and it calculates what will happen in the Middle East ten years from now, what forces will stand out in the other part of the world, and what we call "brother" six months ago today is what we call "brother." What we're going to say tomorrow, to be honest, when we look through your window, it's impossible to tell. Dear MPs, so we, the Nationalist Movement Party, have once again expressed our support for Turkey's initiative to protect its interests wherever it is in the world. But in doing so, we also present the example of the responsible opposition, and we say, "We support these kind of foreign operations, but do you do it? You'll have to pay for that here. Do you intend to send the soldier we sent to Somalia tomorrow, the day after tomorrow -- Mr. Prime Minister's speech -- to prevent the conflict of sects in Iraq? Well, if you're thinking about it, if you're thinking about going to Syria, why haven't you been able to plant the Turkish flag -- in the words of Mr. President-in-Chief? Thus, all these issues are connected. You can't judge Syria any differently than Iraq, Iraq, Iran, the Hurmuz Strait, the Arabian Sea, the Gulf of Aden, Al Qaeda, Somalia, and the Great Middle East. So we've only caught Somali pirates here in the Gulf of Aden, and we'll continue to catch them. It's not possible to explain it with understanding. Dear lawmakers, before I complete my speech, I would like to remind you once again that Turkey will face a great deal of trouble in the 2015 process. Please display a responsible foreign policy. There are important tasks that will fall on our House. As the opposition party, we're kind of struggling with this, and we're saying that in 2015, Turkey is going to be put through a difficult process, so let's try to prevent it from happening now. This is not just an Armenian diaspora study against Turkey. Following the French Senate's decision, with an internal election vote, Turkey has an effort to exclude it from the European Union, and there is competition with Turkey in the region, and there are much wider paradigms. But more importantly, many countries' parliaments are making similar preparations for this decision. Germany has prepared other countries. Do you follow up on these issues? We do, and we warn you as the opposition, come in the 2015 process, take responsibility, and we'll get Turkey out of a difficult process together. You said zero problem. You put Turkey in trouble with all our neighbors. Now you're busy resuming Brother Azerbaijan, through your advocacy press, bringing the protocols back up, but put all this aside -- we warn you once again -- and defend the true interests of the Turkish nation, Turkey. Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0031par0395	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Aytun Çıray. Here you go, Mr. Cherry.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0032par0399	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all with love and respect. We have come together to discuss the declaration that the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces will be deployed in the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and the Arab Sea and the mujavir regions. You know, any illegal activity, seizure and robbery that a private-owned marine vehicle encounters in open seas against its crew and its passengers, or its assets, is called the international literature of protection. As mentioned earlier, there is no permit for a special group today for a state to attack merchant ships. Hence, we cannot speak of piracy today in its 16th century sense. Today, piracy is mainly used as an attempt to hijack, kidnap, and hostage ships in international waters. Today, piracy at sea has been known to cause an economic loss of about 15 billion dollars a year. The United States Coast Guard and the U.S. Navy have almost wiped out piracy in the Caribbean Sea, but piracy remains a feared dream of sailors, especially on the eastern coast of Africa and the Gulf of Aden since 1995. The Gulf of Aden, which has been on our agenda for several years, and the pirates there have also sat on the agenda of Turkey, when they kidnapped a Turkish flagship and lady captain, known in the past years. Now, NATO troops oppose such raids, rescue the kidnapped, and bring the pirates to international justice. The sailors who were abducted in the Gulf of Aden are not only innocent people who do their job, but sometimes these sailors lose their lives. These people who are already trapped in a huge pile of iron, called the ship, are also under the stress of being threatened by pirates. According to the International Maritime Bureau report, Somalia takes first place, second place, third place in the Gulf of Aden, third place in Indonesia. Piracy is a criminal mechanism for people who have no choice but to make money the easy way. But Somali pirates are privileged to find themselves an ideological excuse, unfortunately. A Somali pirate interviewed by the New York Times. We're not sea bandits. Sea bandits are the ones who eat fish in our seas, leave their waste in our seas, and carry weapons in our seas. We see ourselves not as bandits, but as coast guards guarding our beaches. There may be some truth to those words, and after the Siad Barre regime fell in 1991, the land of Somalia, which was left unattended, was overrun by foreign fishermen. We understand that ancient fishermen of the Gulf of Aden want a share of the world's wealth, but not in such an illegal and brutal way. It is unacceptable that piracy, which is a crime in all ages, is still seen in the 21st century. It's hard to believe that there are real pirates on the other side, watching Pirates of the Caribbean in the fantasy world of cinema. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, will support this statement brought by the government. Now, while we're talking about foreign policy here, I don't want to cross Turkey without talking about the final decision and bill made in France, which is on the agenda of the world and Turkey. Dear friends, France has also made an unconstitutional decision. We'll continue to condemn it and fight against it. These Westerners often ignore their own actions and try to blame others for crimes they don't have. When you ask about France's genocide in Algeria, it's the matter of our grandfathers, let's leave it to history, as they say. But I don't want to go through this without saying that it was the government's wrong foreign policy that brought us to this point when we were critical of France to the end. Dear friends, this government has remained silent as genocide decisions have been made in various parliaments. Although we have repeatedly warned the Swedish Parliament, the Ontario and Quebec assembly in Canada, the Argentine Parliament in Southern Cyprus, and many other parliaments, these decisions have always been ignored, unfortunately. Now, from the environment to the center, Turkey is increasingly being put under a clamp, and the policies of the Minister that I mentioned earlier are failing. We're not happy about this, guys, we're really sorry about this. Dear friends, when Mr. Halaçoglu and his friends were president of the Historical Society many years ago, they had signed a very important investigation into the archives of other countries and collected evidence from other countries' archives of Russia, German, British and American, that there was no genocide at all, and invited world historians to discuss them, and they faced incredible things. They saw the reports of foreign countries writing double copies. One, for the public to know, and the secret, for their mission to know. They've identified the Armenians as handing out guns to the French. Thousands of Armenians discovered that Armenians at the time were seen as being kidnapped and killed by Armenians to the United States. Again with the documents, they determined that Cemal Pasha had given the Armenians, the Armenians, their own food, their food, their food, their food, to those who suffered by cutting them off from the rations of the army. Mr. Halaçoglu himself witnessed the opening of 100 Turkish graves, a mass Turkish tomb. Dear friends, what happened next? Mr. Halaçoglu, who has awakened historians around the world and for the first time in the world brought up the Armenian issue in scientific terms, has removed him from this government's post. It's a compromise, my friends; it's a compromise of the Armenians' claims in terms of foreign policy. Mr. President, valued members of the High Assembly, valued representatives; the external issues Turkey faces were as simple as the thesis we are now supporting, but unfortunately it is not; rather, these problems, which are already difficult and complicated by its structures, have become much heavier, much more unresolved. We saw a very dramatic example of this in full nudity as a result of the vote in the French Senate. One of the biggest blindnesss of Turkish foreign policy occurred during this process. The deep strategy of Foreign Minister Davutoglu has once again revealed its shallowness. The 2015 project, conducted by the most fanatical elements of the Armenian diaspora, reached one of its most important goals a few days ago, thanks to the government's wrong foreign policies. Congressmans, recently, you know, in Italy, a giant cruise ship has landed in shallow waters as a result of a complete captain's mistake. So far, the death toll hasn't been clear. The Italian captain probably thought the ship was moving in deep water, but it wasn't. The cost was too high for the passengers and the company. Our Secretary of State has always expressed a depth to his foreign policy, but there was no depth at all. Dear Regents, the arrival of this event is closely related to the Armenian expansion we made three years ago. This opening, especially the size of Azerbaijan-Karabakh, eventually puts the truth on the rock. Dear friends, this has allowed the diaspora, which seeks to produce new victims, to act more effectively in countries where it is historically strong. The goal of the fanatical and effective elements of the Armenian diaspora is that the so-called 1915 genocide is recognised by the United States and the EU. They're working their asses off to achieve that goal. The government's opening of Armenia, a part of Davutoglu's Islamist neothythical dreams, resulted in a political fiasco to feed the diaspora, and was an opportunity presented on a golden platter for non-profit politicians like Sarkozy, who wanted to take political advantage of them. In short, Davutoglu and the government are directly responsible for the policies that led us to this point. So, that's it? Dear friends, I'd like to remind you of a speech Mr. Bulent Arinc made here on behalf of his party, at the Budget Plan speech. He's never found so much room in the government for the ignorant courage that doesn't know history. That's what I reminded you of after my budget speech. I blamed Mr. Arinc for his speech that day. What did he say that day, but to hurt CHP? I've got pictures of people posing in their hands during class events, in my bag. It's on the cover of NTV History magazine. Sagan Agha is his half-brother who cut off his head, but he cut it off. Then he took the money, gave the head to the soldier. We need to focus on historical facts about my lesson. When does he say that, Mr. Arinc? The next day, he says in the French Parliament, one day before this law will be voted. Of course, Mr. Arinc may not have enough history to know what the head of the rebel Bulgarian officer, who had been taken in the hands of an ignorant Ottoman soldier a hundred years ago, may not have been aware that the Ottomans had been declared a massacrer in the European press, which had never been seen in the Balkans again throughout history. Fortunately, there was no concept of genocide at the time. Now, I'm asking you, what would you think if you were a French parliamentarian who was listening to the statement of the government on the day before the genocide vote was held? I say to Mr. Arinc here, "If you've made a mistake, apologize, and if you haven't made a mistake, I leave the decision to the conscience of the great Turkish nation." Now, dear friends, we have no doubt that the law is contrary to freedom of opinion and expression, not only in Turkey, but also in France, all over the world, and we have no doubt that it is contrary to the French Constitution. Thus, in France, we must support processes that will lead to the Constitutional Court as a constitutional problem. Anyway, Mr. Prime Minister has made statements about this. In these matters, to the Constitutional Court of Turkey... history is something like this, bringing people to the point where politics and time eventually put their own mistakes before the past. You will charge the Republican People's Party on your way to the Constitutional Court, and you will remain silent when two members of the Republican People's Party have applied to the Constitutional Court and two vice presidents are fined, and then you will stand up and ask the French Supreme Court for help. This is where politics and history bring people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'd like to talk to you about another matter. Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu said at his group meeting yesterday and in his previous talks that we would support the AKP's unconditional government on this matter. However, the Prime Minister's speech yesterday was a divisive one. The Prime Minister is giving speeches that will make it necessary for us to respond even on the day of national issues. This is no way to rule a statesman, especially on a rainy day like this, dear friends, that's not the way to run a state. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, we also need to cooperate with political actors who will act with us in France. However, Davutoglu's failures in foreign policy are now a major problem, and I think it should be changed. He's eager to be Prime Minister, but he's not. He should be Prime Minister, even taken from the State Department. I think it's good for this country. Turkey is losing altitude in Iraq after Syria, dear friends. It's all our business. It's not just a matter of the AKP's People's Party, the Republican Movement Party and the Peace and Democracy Party, it's a matter of Turkey. In this common issue, in this national issue, let's keep our heads together, stand up against those who lead this wrong policy. See, in Iraq, where we're told that we have the best relations, we're in polemics with Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki, and Maliki is turning against us. This is what happens when the Prime Minister makes Iraq and Syria an object of our own domestic policy. If you make foreign policy a matter of showing off your own domestic policy, and if you do all the effeminate things you can't stand behind, then this is where you end up. Dear friends, God forbid, in the process, we may encounter events like the one we never expected, like the one in Uludere. Turkey's relationship with the region is unfortunately moving towards relations during the fall of the Ottoman state. This is a warning, and a warning. These facts are current today, even if there are manifestations of different forms. Then it's wrong to pursue theoretical dreams in these policies. For our nation, the price is too high, we all pay. Dear friends, Davutoglu politics -- I repeat -- is a nightmare. Now, all our friends, all our allies, are increasing the embargo to Iran, strengthening the embargo to Iran. Are we prepared for this? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will not go out to NATO and take natural gas from Iran. Do you have any measures against it? I'm just reminding you, whatever we've said so far, whatever we've reminded you of, I'd like you to consider it accordingly. Do you know what you're going to do if the Hürmuz Strait is closed and there's a hot contact? As in Libyan example, 20 days ago, what was NATO doing in Libya? After twenty days, NATO must enter Libya, showing that Libyans belong to Libyans. Dear friends, you have also given false politics, false justice in the murder of Hrant Dink. Hrant Dink is a victim. Hrant Dink is a psychological operation created to undermine the Turkish nation regarding the 1915 events. May he rest in peace, and may he rest in peace. I'm sure he was murdered by a terrorist or a gang, and you'll have to find out, you'll have to clean up Turkish honor, my friends. As for another matter: you despised the Azerbaijans, you didn't get their flags. Who walked with the Turks in France? With the Turks in France, the Azerbaijan brothers walked to protest this law. How did he feel as they walked, Mr. President? What were the feelings of those who raised the Azerbaijan flags in the game held in Bursa? Honestly, I'm very curious. Dear friends, we, the Republican People's Party, will now continue our unconditional support for the so-called genocide policies of France and the world. However, I have a request from Mr. Prime Minister that you know that the Prime Minister bought a French-German joint A330 Airbus plane to use in the VIP. If my information is correct, this aircraft was purchased for about 200 million dollars, and if the information I have now is correct, this aircraft's VIP equipment is made for $50 million. The Prime Minister is a generous man. He even sent 200-300 million dollars to the Libyan opponents who were after their oil. I think if he's not willing to return this plane, let's burn the money and not use it, folks. This is my last request. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0033par0431	Thank you, Mr. Cherry. Aksaray MP for the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0034par0435	Mr. President, I have made a commitment on behalf of the Aden Bay, Somali waters and coasts of the Turkish Armed Forces, February 10, 2009 and 934 to be assigned in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, then February 2, 2010 to the AK PARTI Group, and again to be extended one more year from February 10, 2012 to the decision given to our government by the Grand National Assembly Decisions of 7 February 2011 and 984. I salute your high council. In this century, the world's security structure is a very different situation. We live in a century where small, uncertain, and unstable threats are becoming increasingly intense. In time, the fight against these threats that have won global characters has also made it necessary to develop the new concept of defence and the way to fight. Along with the classic field defenses, extra-field defenses are becoming more and more important. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, all military operations that have been concentrated are operating beyond the territory of the countries involved in the operation. Because a threat that is thought to be far away, one way or another, any country that sees that threat as a threat, is threatened one day. The sea piracy that we're talking about today, which is another form of terrorism, has become a threat to many countries. In recent years, piracy and sea bandits have become increasingly regional and global threats. In the beginning of such concentrations and increase in piracy and sea banditry in the Gulf of Aden and Somalia, Somalia was devastated as a state. Emirvaki autonomous zone formations and the appearance of some armed groups have destroyed the integrity of governance in the country. This led to the rise of organised crime organizations in the country and the formation of a network of pirates. Also, poverty, hunger, poverty, corruption in countries in the region, including Somalia, is the basis for these criminal organizations. In the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters, and offshore, sea bandits, piracy and armed robberies against trade ships in the Indian Ocean continue to stand at the front of the international agenda as a matter of international security. These illegal acts not only threaten the safety of lives and goods but reduce freedom of travel, affecting international trade and shipping in a negative way. Sadly, these actions also prevent the shipping of humanitarian aid to Somalia and other African countries. Since 2006, good lawmakers have continued their criminal activities, especially for trade ships and Earth Food Program ships, on the coast of the world's seas, the Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arab Sea, the Persian Gulf and Somalia. Because of the geographical location of the Gulf of Aden and the importance of global traffic in this region, attacks in this region have more devastating effects on world trade than on other parts of the world. Because no country alone has the ability and ability to deal with these problems, the international community makes a joint effort to make this problem go away. In light of UN Security Council Resolution 1851, the establishment of a joint task force led by the United States on 8 January 2009. Our country, an active member of the United Nations Agency, is fulfilling its international and national responsibilities by supporting efforts to combat piracy and sea banditry, which endangers international peace and stability and has also adversely affected our national interests. Our country, which attributed special importance to the development of international cooperation in the fight against sea bandits, piracy and armed robbery, has supported efforts in this area and has actively contributed to the work carried out by international organisations. My fellow lawmakers, the Suez Canal, the Red Sea, and the Gulf of Aden, is being passed around 30,000 commercial ships a year, which are of great importance to the world's sea trade. About one fifth of the world's trade volume is carried from this trade, about $1.8 trillion, and one quarter of the world's oil exports, $315 billion. From the Gulf of Aden, around 500 Turkish Flags a year pass Turkish-related merchant ships and our imports and exports with more than 30 nations are carried out through this sea trade. Nearly 20 per cent of our country's foreign trade, worth nearly 250 billion dollars a year, is done using shipping routes in this region. That amount is about 50 billion dollars. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, local threats that have not been interfered or co-operated in time and place have grown in time to become international and reach regional or global dimensions. After these threats reach a certain size, the struggle becomes difficult and much more expensive. As part of these developments, as Turkey, I have already stated that our government has taken permission from the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 10 February 2009, to contribute to international security and to protect ships carrying cargo from Turkish Flag or Turkey in the region. It contributes to security in this area by sending frigates to the region. Turkish frigates successfully carry out the assigned tasks. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, these military operations also provide new experiences to the international community and states and teach them lessons. The Turkish Armed Forces also gain great experience in these operations. One of the lessons and experiences taken by international institutions and states is the fact that military operations are not the only solution in some cases, and that economic and social structural measures are needed alongside it. Operation Afghanistan is the most obvious example of this situation. Thus, a comprehensive approach strategy has been developed in NATO. The success of the military operation in the region, which is subject to this thesis, may also be limited because sea pirates and bandits are being organized and organised in the surrounding countries. In environmental countries, there is a weakness for governance, poverty, lawlessness. Therefore, the international community and countries must implement a comprehensive approach strategy to countries that are a source of piracy. We can provide examples of economic aid and management systems, the creation of the legal system, the strengthening of the Coast Guard system, so that it will be able to incorporate countries that are organised by piracy into this struggle. I would like to bring to your attention Turkey's humanitarian aid to Somalia. Dear lawmakers, the threat of sea pirates is still in progress in the region, so Turkey's continued presence in the area of threats with international institutions and states must be met. In 20 operations from July 2009 to date, 135 marine pirates have been neutralized and escorted to different countries' ships. Over the past year, our Turkish flagships, such as the Burak A (CS Jahan) and the CSJ, have been attacked, and the attack has been eliminated as a result of measures and follow-up, and the safe passage of the ships of Gaza, Burak A, AMAL S, again with humanitarian aid has been provided. The TCG Giresun CTF 508, currently under the command of our admiral, is currently serving in the region, a ship assigned by the Turkish Navy. In the region, there are also military ships belonging to the United States, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, India, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea and Australia, escorting commercial ships and maintaining the facility for sea safety. There is uninterrupted communication between our frigates in the region and our trading ships that are passing through. Trade ships passing through the region are aware of their safe course by implementing effective protective measures, and are helping them to join military convoys belonging to the other country's naval forces. On the other hand, it has been established that the information of the ships that will pass through the sea zone should be made known to military vessels in the region, to provide protection services for ships as long as possible and abilities are available, to be published by our Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Communications, as well as by national and international organisations, to quickly and effectively announce information and documents that are guiding to ship captains, equipment and agencies. Mr. President, in the final statement, the Turkish Armed Forces would like to extend its request for another year, starting on February 10, 2012, with a positive contribution to the world's peace and stability and national interests, as well as the AK PARTI Group, which was given a year's leave to our government in the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, dated February 10, 2009, and based on the principle and basis of the 934 Turkish National Assembly Decision. These operations, of course, are our greatest desire to end as soon as possible. Part of the reason this decision has been extended yearly is because the United Nations Security Service is making annual decisions to address the problem here. And based on these decisions, we're working together to extend the dissertation. Dear friends, while I end my words here, I hereby salute your grand delegation. I wish health and well-being to our soldiers and citizens involved in this operation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0035par0455	Thank you, Mr. Smarty-pants. The statement on the Prime Minister's thesis has been completed on the behalf of the groups. Now, the first word for the individuals belongs to Mr. Aytug Ater. Here you go, Mr. Horseman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0036par0461	Thank you, Mr. President. In person, I salute our delegation. Dear MPs, of course, we are not expected to say no to this thesis. We support this thesis as the Republican People's Party. Now, let's see how the Prime Minister spins around and hits the Republican People's Party again after we say we'll support such a dissertation when it comes to the agenda. Just yesterday, he gave an open check to a bill in France, a bill the French Senate accepted, a bill we could never accept, a bill that mankind could never accept. He said: "We must be united in national affairs, in national affairs, in power-cognitiveness." Come on, the future of this bill was clear that it would be voted in France, and Thursday's arrival was clear from Wednesday. Come on, you've taken it a little slow, but come on, let's go in arm in arm, let's be together in our national struggle, national issues. He said, we've come today, we've looked, Mr. Prime Minister is criticizing the Republican People's Party. Now, that's what you call doing business for friends to see in shopping. Look, if you push a hand that reaches out to you with sincerity, you'll lose your credibility. When you lose your credibility, people laugh at you not only in the country, but abroad. So foreign policy requires stability, foreign policy requires credibility. The one you're talking to inside, the one you're talking to outside, it's got to stick together, and then when it doesn't, they let you on foot. Why did it come to this with France? We all know the general way of Sarkozy. No one knows what kind of psychological structure Sarkozy is, what kind of person he is. So we know they have some complexes. Imagine a human being standing on his feet, on his fingers, trying to make himself look tall when he sees the cameras. Now, when I see this as a physician, I know exactly how this guy gets into complexes, and I know exactly what a person with complexes like that would do, and you should know that. I told you it was Wednesday. What had happened? When Sarkozy went to Armenia, he spoke clearly, not with signals. He said, "I'll carry on with it. I will carry this Armenian bill, and I will pioneer it in France. What did we do? Come on, we've said things like that. No. At the time, we should have seen that this man, standing on his feet, trying to make it look like he was tall, would do this in order to corner Turkey for three or five votes, and we should have given him more hands, arms, and arms. Dear friends, this is a matter of utmost importance. This isn't just about hurting the AKP government. Look, if there was something that would hurt the AKP's government, we wouldn't be so concerned about it, but because of your foreign policy, we're being ridiculous as a country, we're losing as a country. There's another reason for that. Look, I'm the same Sarkozy who got up and was the leader of the Middle East again. I think he might have done a salvo on our Prime Minister. If you get up, I'm the leader of the Middle East. Everywhere I go, I'm greeted with flags. I'm greeted with applause everywhere I go. The Middle East is my garden, and I am the brother of this place. If you say so, you will provoke someone. That's what people with complexes have been up to. Consider the case of France: When did France occur in this Middle Eastern crisis? Where was France during the Arab spring? Look, we all know that the United States is the leading actor of the great game played in the Middle East. You don't have to be a genius to know that. He's out, he's out, he's out, he's out, he's out, he's out, he's out, he's out, he's Our Prime Minister became his partner. Has the Middle East begun to feel different? It's started. Who is the country closest to America? England. America will meet with England, shape the Middle East, and France will stand by, will it? We needed to see this. France didn't see it, France didn't see it. When did he show up? He appeared in Libya. When the Arab spring came to Libya, it appeared, and you'll remember very well, before our government, the palas pandiras took the way to Libya to get there. Why? I'm here to say I'm here. I want to take part in the reshaping of the Middle East, he said. You didn't see that either. You didn't see this either... and then this Sarkozy, who's become the elder brother of the Middle East, don't be so hard on our Prime Minister, I won't eat your manners. I'll slap you like this, and you can sit down. Are we worthy of this, for God's sake? Why can't we see that? Why don't we see this and take precautions? For that, you need to see these great games played in the Middle East much earlier. My fellow lawmakers who come up here are blind from time to time. Wherever we go in the Middle East, people sacrifice to us. When you say, "We laugh too." Why? That is because people who do not know the spirit of the Middle East, who do not know the way of the Middle East man's life speak. That's right, we all do. We all see how flags are raised when our prime minister or ministers go somewhere in the Middle East. Okay, I wish this could be real. I wish that was really out of respect for us. I wish... if you were a little contrary to their interests, the Middle East countries would take our flag and burn it just like in Syria. You were the ones who said how we were greeted when we went to Syria, how we were applauded when we went to Tunisia. But you thought it was a big deal because you didn't know the anatomy of the peoples of the Middle East. You thought it was a big event, and you thought we really were the leaders of the Middle East. Come on, guys! Do not humiliate us in the Middle East. Don't humiliate us in the world. You have no right to do this. That's why our foreign policy needs to be stable. If we want to mention our name in our foreign policy, we really, really need to be consistent. Now, you're going to get up, and you're going to say, "No." You're going to say, "No." You're going to say, "No." You're going to say, "We don't need to investigate the skulls in Diyarbaır." You're going to say, "You're going to go back to France," and you're going to say, "Sir, let's investigate Armenian cases, let's open our archives." Everybody, come on in, come on in. Let the historians do the work, let them come, let them look, what's our position on Armenian? I'm on my side. I'm a citizen of this country, a congressman of this country. I know very well there's no Armenian genocide here, but it's not enough for me to know. Even if everyone in this Parliament raises their hand, it's not enough, my friends. This must be taken out by historians and shown to the French people and to all the people of the world. But if you're not consistent inside, if you refuse to investigate the unknowns here, if you refuse to set up the commission of facts, not once, not once, not ten times, but again, the suggestions from different parties, what do we believe in now, and what will we say, "O France, what you're doing is wrong, let's make a commission, let's investigate the facts." Who in God's name will believe you? So credibility is extremely important in foreign policy. Every step you take can humiliate our government and our nation in foreign policy, so be very careful. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0037par0479	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Minister of National Defence, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0484	Mr. President, I stand before you on the basis of a motion to extend a year's leave to the government on February 7, 2011 and 984 of our great Parliament for the deployment of the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces abroad as part of the fight against naval bandits and I salute you all. Today's threat perceptions and security strategies make it necessary to keep open areas of all nations, especially marine areas, under acceptable control. The situation puts relations between states in a more dependent and mutually interacting situation, and naturally affects their security perceptions directly. In 2011, a total of 22,441 ships from the Gulf of Aden and the Somali basin had crossed the Turkish Bay and linked to Turkey. In this context, the acts of sea bandits and armed robberies against commercial ships in the Gulf of Aden, Somalia, and the Indian Ocean have not only threatened the safety of life and property, but also have an effect on the freedom of navigation, international trade and shipping. These actions also complicate the shipping of humanitarian aid to Somali and African countries. These illegal actions are at the top of the international agenda as an international security issue. Mr. President, not because we have requested another country for this thesis, but because we have to support it at the request of the people in Somalia, we have to support the call of the government of Somalia, we have to support it to keep an international navigation route open. Any person who is a little sensitive to those children in Somalia must ensure that the assistance to Somalia is guaranteed. We have our own principles, we have our own culture; wherever you see evil, you have to try to stop it with your hand, with your tongue, and if you can't do it with your heart.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0039par0488	Mr. Secretary, what does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0489	Today's piracy off the coast of Somalia is a persecution, so it's a threat. It's our human duty to prevent it, to prevent it. Those who don't have a conscience for Somali children don't understand the purpose of this thesis.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0039par0490	So that's why he's doing the thesis?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0491	This is not the custodian of global capital, but the invitation of the government of Somalia and the people of Somalia.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0039par0492	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0040par0493	Mr. Akar, please.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0494	If you read the decision of the United Nations Security Council, it is very clear that this request was received by the Somali government's advocacy calls. In the remembered areas, the UN Security Council's decisions, which have responded to the international fight against the acts of naval bandits and armed robberies in the Indian Ocean, have been extended for one more year, dated November 22, 2011, and with Decision 2020. This decision is particularly thanked, China is there, India is there, Iran is there, Japan is there, Malaysia is there. Those who say, "What are we doing there?" have to explain what these countries are doing there. There's Korea, there's the Russian Federation, there's Saudi Arabia, there's Yemen, there's England, there's France, there's Greece, there's Holland, there's Germany, there's Italy, there's Belgium, there's Sweden, there's Spain, there's America.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0041par0496	He can't protect so many men...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0497	If you are a member of the United Nations, you must obey the UN's decision, and if you are a member of NATO, you must comply with NATO's decision. In the region, anti-sea bandits activities are already being conducted by NATO, under the European Union and the United States, by the naval forces and the common states that I counted just now. Our country supports the efforts of Turkey's Grand National Assembly on February 10, 2009 and on February 17, 2009 to combat sea bandits with frigates, which it has been tasked to transform under the United Task Force and the NATO Permanent Marine Task Group. The United Task Force command was assumed by our country twice between May 2009 and August 2009 and September 1st and December 1st 2011, and thus led by a multinational coalition force at sea for the first time as a United Nations mission outside of its duties in NATO. Again, if accepted, our country would again take over the command post for the third time from September 1st to December 1st 2012. A total of 13 frigates have contributed to the fight against the naval banditry that has been carried out in the region so far. In addition, the Turkish naval task force, consisting of 3 frigates and 1 fuel carriers, supported the campaign to fight naval bandits in 2011, providing support for 76 Turkish flagships in the Gulf of Aden. In addition, it has been secured by escorting Gediz Ferkatin, who has been assigned to ships called "Burak-A" and "Burak-A" and "Burak-Araq" to the region, in case of a drought in Somalia. Giresun, who has been assigned by the United Task Force to Operation Ocean Shield by Turkish Naval Command as the current situation, continues to fight sea bandits in the region as the United Task Force flagship. Any measures are being taken by our harp ships to ensure the safe passage of Turkish Bayraklı and Turkish-connected merchant ships from the region are being carried out and the necessary activities are being carried out. In this framework, the measures and warnings that merchant ships must implement against the naval bandits are being updated by following developments in the region, and the Office of Prime Ministerial Maritime Affairs -- now referred to as Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications Ministry -- to our naval sector, to follow the passage of merchant ships from the region and to coordinate the integration of our trade ships into military convoys, to be co-ordinated and recommend that other countries operating in the region should be co-operated closely with ships related to Turkish Bay and Turkish Bay ships. In the wake of co-ordination with other commanderships and local authorities in the region, not one Turkish Flagship ship has been hijacked from March 2010, although a total of 103 foreign flag ships have been attacked and 23 of them have been abducted in the past year. Mr. President, the high-profile MPs require the continued deterrent of such extensive and intensive military deployment on naval bandits, and the strengthening of this insurgents in operations of their nature should be tried in the way they deserve to be brought to justice, but there has not yet been a court in international order to judge these pirates. The United Nations decision envisions bilateral agreements with the countries there. The only country that currently has a contract with Kenya is the United States of America. The lack of public order in Somalia, the fact that sea bandits and armed robbers operate in a vast sea area, the problems faced with their arrest and trial, make this issue difficult to fight effectively. For this reason, our country advocates a joint approach to the international community, the taking and implementing of international effective measures in the face of the veracity and complexity of the problem. And it is our duty, wherever there is injustice, and wherever there is injustice, to fight against it. The key to a permanent solution to the matter of sea bandits is mainly on land. An inclusive approach and strategy that will include political, economic and security areas as an international community must be implemented effectively in the difficult situation of Somalia. It is our belief that with such a view, a lasting solution can be found to the problem of sea banditry. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, naval bandits are continuing off the coast of the Gulf of Aden and Somalia, and Turkish and Turkish-connected merchant ships are also affected by ships carrying help to Somalia. In accordance with our policy towards the growing region, the strategic importance of other countries in the region, as well as the interests of the countries I count, Turkey has that benefit. It is considered important to continue to display presence in the region and to extend its mandate in terms of our activity in the region and international and our appearance. With these ideas, according to Article 92 of the Constitution, Turkish Armed Forces has been awarded a year's notice by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, which has been issued on February 7, 2011, and has been extended a year with the Supreme Assembly of Turkey (984) on February 10, 2012, to extend the time of leave of sea elements from the Gulf of Aden, Somali land waters and deficits, to the Arab Sea and mujavir regions, and to make the necessary arrangement for this year more valid, in accordance with Article 934 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. President, members of parliament, Turkey is the leader of its territory with its honorable foreign policy. It's impossible to show anything to anyone who doesn't want to see it. If Turkey is not the leader of this region, then will you call it Iraq? If Iraq is not the leader of the region, will you call it Syria? If it's not Syria, will you say it's the farm? If it's not Jordan, will you say Egypt? If it's not Egypt, will you call it Libya? If it's not that way, will you call it Macedonia if we go to the Balkans? Are you going to say "Bulgaria"? Are you going to say Greece? It's a fact that everyone with a good heart sees that Turkey is the rising star of this region. (EC PARTY) We didn't just say it, but someone who came here in the last few weeks, from the outside and neutral, the President of Kyrgyzistan said: We know that Turkey is the star of this region. We know there's a shining star if there's a cloud in front of it. We are proud of it. What the President of Kyrgyztan sees cannot be expected to be seen by our people living in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0042par0517	Don't compare us to those countries, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0518	So we say that Turkey, with its honorable foreign policy, is respected both in the Turkish world and in the European world.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0043par0519	Yeah, say one thing right...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0038par0520	Surely we have much more to do. If we stick together, there's nothing we can't get through. With these feelings, I ask that this statement bring blessings both to our country and to our region and to international peace, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0044par0523	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the individuals, the last word belongs to Mr. Şurmuş Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0045par0527	Mr. President, I have made a promise to the government on a Prime Minister's thesis on the extension of the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces from 10 February 2012 to 10 February 2009, in accordance with the principle and basis set by the Grand National Assembly Resolution 934. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, as you know, the Gulf of Aden is vital to international sea trade. Ships that travel from Asia to Europe or from Europe to Asia, using the Suez Canal, are forced to use the Gulf of Eden between Somalia and Yemen because they do not plan to cross the Strait of Gibraltar by extending the road for thousands of miles. Instead of passing through the Gulf of Eden, the daily damage of ships that prefer to go around is more than $30,000. That's why dozens of ships are forced to take this route every day and are naturally targeted by pirates. Members of the United Nations Security Council decisions adopted in 2008 on piracy, naval bandits and armed robberies in the Arab Sea and in areas of the Gulf of Aden, Somali waters and open spaces, as you know, and Turkish Armed Forces have been actively involved in the international community's campaign against the safety of Turkish Bay and Turkish-related commercial ships in the area, under the decision of the Grand National Assembly on February 10th 2009. In this area, our role and appearance within the United Nations system and on the regional scale has been ensured. According to Article 92 of our constitution, which is considered the basis of the countermeasures, it is incumbent on the Turkish Grand National Assembly to allow the deployment of Turkish Armed Forces to foreign countries or to allow foreign armed forces to be held in Turkey, except in the case of the declaration of war in which international law is legitimate, and in the case of international agreements or the rules of international courtesy that Turkey is on the side. While Turkey's Grand National Assembly is on vacation or on recess, the Turkish Armed Forces may decide to use the Turkish Armed Forces if it is inevitable that an immediate attack on our country and the use of the armed force should be made immediately. Mr. President, with your permission, I would also like to say that almost everyone who is an expert on Turkey's participation in cross-border international operations has agreed that in recent years Turkey's international competency has significantly increased and its place in international consultations and decision-making has been strengthened. I can give you a lot of concrete examples. This growing event also brings Turkey the responsibility to participate and contribute to the solution of international problems. It is clear that Turkey must prevent potential damage to our economy due to naval bandits and piracy, but it also burdens us with certain responsibilities in our country, which claims to be among the world's top ten most influential countries in political, cultural and economic fields in 2023, on the 100 · Global Voices anniversary, which is as important as this one. On behalf of myself and my group, I'd like to thank all of our Navy personnel who have served with a superior success and wish them a continued success. On this occasion, I salute the High Council with my deepest and deepest respect.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit01spe0046par0534	Thank you. Congressmans, Mr. Anna Harlamenko, president of the Gökoğuz Center, who is officially visiting our country, has now arrived at our House. I welcome them on behalf of our great Council. [[Applause]] Congressmans, talks on the Prime Minister's thesis have been completed. Now, I'm going to have the thesis reread and put it to your votes: The United Nations Security Council decisions adopted in 2008 on piracy/sea banditry and armed robberies in areas of the Arab Sea and mujavir, the Gulf of Aden, the Gulf of Aden and Somalia and its gaps, and its active participation in the international community of the Turkish Armed Forces in its decisions dated 10/2/2009 and its 934 decree, which ensured that the naval elements of the Turkish Flag and Turkish-connected ships are placed in the areas in these areas, and established our role in the region. The Turkish Armed Forces decision 934, which allows naval elements to function in the region, is finally extended by a year by 7/2/2011 and will end on 10/2/2012. On the other hand, the UN Security Council's decisions, which responded to the ongoing piracy of piracy and armed robbery in the Indian Ocean, have been extended for a year with the resolution dated 22/11/2011 and the international community. In this scope, I submit the extension of the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces from the Aden Bay, Somali territorial waters and deficits, in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution, under the principle and basis set in the TBM resolution 10/2/2009, dated 10/2/2012, to be assigned to the Arab Sea and mujavir regions. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0046par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 56th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process. 25.01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On December 26, 2011, a parliamentary survey motion issued by Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici and his friends to investigate the number of prisoners issued under the name of terrorism has been proposed on December 19, 2011, in a joint release given by Iğdır MP Pervin Buldan and Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan (269 rows), and in the same date of the talks, given under the name of the AKP operations, the Council of Assembly Research Forum, before other motions waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, on Wednesday 25,01,2012 Wednesday. Congressmans, this proposal also includes the meeting of the parliamentary inquiry motion for the KCK operations of the Party for Peace and Democracy group today. However, the parliamentary research motion was considered and not processed today, as part of Article 138 (18) of the Constitutional Constitutional Court, in which prosecutors and judges have been questioned and aren't processed. That's why I'm only processing the proposal in terms of the initial research motion.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0047par0016	I'm not getting any work done. You're saying!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0046par0017	No, in two pieces. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0048par0021	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we've requested the Council of Counsellors in accordance with the Civil Code 19, today and we've downloaded these motions. The other groups have arrived. The representatives of the main opposition party...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0046par0022	Mr. Kaplan, just a moment. I forgot about the couch. I promised Mr. Kaplan in the framework of a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0049par0024	Against Ali Reza Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0046par0025	Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk is against you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0050par0026	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0046par0027	Mr. Mehmet Shandir is in favor.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0051par0028	Against you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0046par0029	Ahmet Aydın is in favor. Okay. Mr. Kaplan, I'm sorry. I'm rebooting your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0052par0033	Mr. President, we've asked for the Council's Advisory Board today according to the Civil Code 19, and we've downloaded our motion. However, when we sat here after the General Assembly came to parliament, we just received a letter from the President of the Laws and Decisions. It says in this article of the presidency, I find it useful to read the same sentence: "After independence has been eliminated, operations have been speeded up." The right to a fair trial with special authority prosecutors and judges has been violated in private court. So our Parliamentary presidency is underlineing that you can't talk about it in the parliament. This means, friends, that the opposition parties should not speak at all. That is the name of it. If we are put in a position where we can't say "Judge is independent." If the Parliament acts here according to the mentality of a party's ruling, if the presidency intervenes in this situation at this stage of the Assembly, it's a scandal, it's a scandal in legislature activities. Look, there's a point in the research proposal that we've submitted that the execution has interfered with the judiciary, my friends, so we say... Mr. Atalay says: "These operations are an integrated strategy and, according to the state, co-ordinated, agreed, planned and conducted in the cross-border operations." Now, the administration is taking this decision, and I will arrest the KCK prisoners." He says, "I will arrest the Prime Minister." He says, "I will arrest the 8000-plus of the Minister of the Interior, and this is not interfering with the judiciary, but you can't talk to a party on this matter when he wants to talk about it," he says. If we can't talk on this stand, can you guys tell us what to discuss? Is there such a violation of the Civil Code? I called my Group Manager. Has the notice arrived? No. Did we get this article? No. Well, it wasn't very elegant, folks, coming here after the General Assembly. It's impossible for us to accept an intervention like this as opposition parties, so the Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Cicek, has now taken off his AK PARTI badge, and we look at it that way, it needs to be neutral, the Civil Code commands it. If the frak and the thing are still being directed by the Law Office with the understanding of protecting, guarding a ruling party, then that's not true, that's wrong, but we're going to pass it by with new understanding and we're going to continue with a similar research proposal, but I'll make it clear that we don't accept this attitude, that we object. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0053par0038	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Lehte Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0054par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge in favor of the position of the Speaker of Parliament, and I offer my regards. Turkey must be questioned according to a law state, a legal argument, and its spirit. The Supreme Court's ruling on this matter is very clear and clear, Mr. Kaplan's legal character will accept this issue: There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly on a pending case, no discussion or any statement of the Constitution Article 138. With this sentence in the open, despite their knowledge of this verdict -- I know what they know -- asking for a parliamentary inquiry into TK operations to be put on the agenda is demanding that this be denied, and so has the Speaker of Parliament.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0055par0046	He won't say no.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0054par0047	Therefore, the rejection of this request to the General Assembly in the General Assembly is not in violation of our Civil Code, nor according to our Constitution, but let us first determine it. But as opposition parties, we always make parallel statements about the silence of the opposition. At this point, it is not right for the opposition party to oppose the opposition party. Yes, it is our right that the ruling party has behaved badly in its contribution, in its contribution, with the means provided by the prepared Civil Code, and with the means provided by the Civil Code, and with the exceptions of the ruling party here by the ruling party group of the two against the group, and that the minister of the Interior Charter will respond to this point in exactly two minutes to 20 minutes. Dear friends, in Turkey, we all share a common denominator of law, rule of law, binding of law. If we lose this, we lose the will to live together, the order to live together. This requires all of us to respect the rule of law and the determination of law. In this regard, the position of the Presidential Court is appropriate according to our Civil Code and our Constitution. I have made a pledge in favor of the position of the Presidential Court. I salute you with these thoughts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0056par0052	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0057par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in favor of the position of the Speaker of Parliament, should I actually have made a commitment?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0056par0056	Against you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0057par0057	Sorry, it's against you, it's against you. Mr. President, right now, the commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the General Assembly must be governed according to this Constitutional Court and the Civil Code. If, based on your majority in Parliament, you attempt to run this Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation, in fact, that would be a violation of the Constitution based on the majority. Although the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is here to discuss certain laws that clearly violate the Constitution, as well as some demands from the opposition, as well as the special competent courts, the status and nature of the crime, the current evidence situation, the defendant's suspicion of escape, are completely clichéd, afflicted words, the rights of the parliamentary MPs are taken back here by abstract, one-type statements. Now, look, I have a question motion, too. So as our opposition lawmakers, we have two ways to oversee the government: one question motion and one research motion. I'm here to ask the Minister of Justice to answer, and I'm saying, "What is the constitutional basis of private courts?" I'm saying again: "What law, which clause, in which law, is the right to defend in some special authorities? What law system and what law does such a thing exist? And I continue: is it considered to be a punishment for abuse of duty by the judges, the law and the Constitution, the attempts to restrict the right to a fair trial, the actions that ignore defence? The answer is: So I am a member of the Justice Commission. I know the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Constitution, the law. I don't know what's in accordance with the rules of the Constitution and the Civil Code when I'm drafting a question proposal, and the man at the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions knows a lot more than I do, and he says: What part of this question is related to the use of judicial authority? Is it the use of judicial authority to say that private courts operate according to what Article of the Constitution? Today, Mr. Secretary is bringing an arrangement under the name "reform" to the judiciary, where he says the right to defend can't be restricted in private court. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I, too, have no regulation to limit the right to defend the existing laws. What do you do that according to? It's clouding the judgment. Friends, to influence the judiciary is that if he makes a statement when he uses his judicial authority on the basis of the case, he will influence the judiciary, which means that the Prime Minister and other ministers will be able to influence the decision made in the Hrant Dink case.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0058par0064	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0057par0065	Today the control authority of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly cannot be handed over to officers in the General Directorate of Laws and Decisions, which has been handed over.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0059par0066	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0057par0067	That's why I'm taking a stand against the position of Parliament Speaker. The right to control is restricted.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0060par0069	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Lehte Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0061par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, today, of course, there was a motion for the Council of Counsellors, and since the Council of Counsellors' request could not be unanimous, the BDP Group came up with a group proposal. I find the position of the Presidential Court to be accurate because when you look at the content of the group's proposal, it's a group proposal based on ongoing trials, and our Constitution is very clear that this will not be discussed here. Dear friends, without running away from anything, the third paragraph of Article 138 of our Constitution states: "There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislature concerning a case that is being seen, there is no discussion or any statement of any kind. There are similar statements in other paragraphs. In that sense, I find the position of the Presidential Court correct. In fact, I wonder if it was right to bring another suggestion instead, which is controversial, Mr. President, because when this group's proposal was not accepted, they found that the group's proposals were changed and that the number of arrests increased at a new research point in the form of a group. Dear friends, with all due respect at the point of freedom of expression, we have eliminated many of the subjects that we considered taboo yesterday during the AK PARTI Power period, and we have eliminated many of the issues that we couldn't talk about here yesterday, cannot be discussed, can't be discussed, can't even think about, in the process of AK PARTI power, and everything has become clear, naked, and today, at the point of freedom of expression, we are very much ahead of France, and today, we are all critical of France. Look, there's also a new package coming in at the speed of the trial, and in this package, they're talking about the number of prisoners in the new group proposal they're bringing in. Dear friends, when we came to power, the number of prisoners and prisoners in prisons was almost equal. In the Supreme Court, changes have been made in the Court's Law, increased the number of members, and for the first time, the number of files concluded in the Supreme Court has increased according to the number of new files that came in at this time, and at this rate, the files are becoming increasingly melting. The number of prisoners in prisons has declined from 50 per cent to 28 per cent, and with this new package, nearly 2 million new cases will be affected, and the trial will get faster and faster. Therefore, there will be a serious decline in arrests and in the number of prisoners. So, dear friends, of course, we'll discuss everything, we'll discuss everything, but please, let's not bring up the issues that will lead to the independence of the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0062par0081	That's right, he's independent when he decides on your behalf.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0063par0082	What part of the judgment is independent?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0061par0083	If you have other evidence, if you have other evidence, you'll go to trial again, to the prosecution, to the prosecution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...in the form of a criminal announcement. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0064par0088	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0065par0089	Mr. President, I'd like to say something about the same thing. My thirteen motions to question the President of the House have been wrongfully extradited. Since I couldn't get in with my finger, because my hand was broken... if you'll excuse me for a moment, I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0064par0090	You know better than I do that.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0065par0091	Then let me make a brief statement from my position.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0064par0092	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0065par0095	Mr. President, Mr. Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek is sacrificing himself to clear all mines in front of AKP's fascist dictatorship after he has been elected Speaker. (EC PARTY RINGS) It says to our question proposals: "There is violence and hurtful speech, and I return it.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0066par0096	Is that not a harsh and hurtful thing to say?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0065par0097	What word of my question motion is rude and hurtful? I'm making a motion to question Abdullah Gül. I'm asking a question from the Prime Minister. How many trips did Abdullah Gul make? How much money did he spend? What grant did he make? He says, "Sir, if you can't ask the President, I'm not asking the President. According to Article 9 of the Constitution, the executive authority and the mandate of the Constitution shall belong to the President and the Council of Ministers. I'm asking the Prime Minister the question. By what authority does the Speaker extradite the motion to ask? It is the Parliament's authority to discuss this question and to comply with the Constitution. The Speaker of Parliament cannot take the AKP into his protective position, sir, by impugning Parliament's authority. He's completely returning our questions for no reason. Anyway, so far...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0067par0099	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0065par0100	Mr. President, I didn't say anything!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0068par0101	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0067par0102	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0068par0103	...to remind some people of themselves from time to time and to come to the agenda...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0104	Yeah, well, you need to get on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0068par0105	...is not a council he'd use with false curses, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're not taking him in, and we're returning his word to him, sir. Just for the record.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0108	Mr. President, I'm being picked on.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0109	Oh, for God's sake, no...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0110	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0111	No, no, no...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0112	We can't get him to talk to us, he said. It's a tease. Please, I want to talk about teasing.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0113	Please... Mr. Young, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0114	Mr. President, look, unfortunately, those of you who sit on the floor of the Speakership, when I take my word for it, you're being very mean to me. He tells me we don't accept him as an MP.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0115	Mr. Young, I'll have it removed from the transcripts, how many times, how many times, I've given it to you when you want it.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0116	But sir, he's picking on me.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0117	Look, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0118	Now that he's being sarcastic, you have to promise.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0119	I mean, you're a man who knows how to do things.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0120	Sir, no, I mean...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0121	And we hurt each other, you know, hurt each other.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0122	I mean, a deputy president of a group...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0123	We'll never get into that kind of attitude to get in the way. I don't need to tell you personally...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0124	But Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0125	I mean, I've always had a way with you not to get hurt.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0126	Okay, but now he's saying...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0070par0127	No, look, I don't...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0128	A Group Vice President says: "We don't take care of him."
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0071par0129	What am I supposed to do with you?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0130	I'll deal with what the MP has to offer.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0131	Well, then, I'll have your speech removed now...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0132	Then there's an insult here, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0133	I'll have your speech removed, see what it says.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0073par0134	What do I have to deal with a person who says "fascist dictator" who doesn't know what he's talking about?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0069par0135	Then why is he answering my speech if he won't talk to me?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0136	He told me where he was.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0074par0137	And does he have to take care of you?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0138	He told me where he was.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0075par0139	I'm responding to your ugly expression.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0076par0140	You're the one who used the ugly expression.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0143	The formal debate is complete.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0075par0144	I'm responding to your ugly expression.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0076par0145	You're the one who's using the ugly expression. You're the one who ignored this House, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0146	There's no change in our attitude.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0076par0147	Mr. President, they're ignoring this House.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0072par0148	That's why I'm only processing the proposal in terms of the initial research motion. In favour of the group's proposal by the Peace and Democracy Party, the first statement is from Batman MP Ayla Akat Ata. Here you go, Mr. Ancestor.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0077par0155	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our motion has been withdrawn by the Speaker. Of course, there's more than one motion on this issue because there's a concrete, flammable problem. And the reason we bring it up is because it's a clear confession. Our Deputy Prime Minister in charge of co-ordination, Mr. Besir Atalay, has made a statement on Channel 7 (18/12/2011), saying: "We have an integrated strategy in one direction as a state; from cross-border operations to CK operations, all of which are discussed, agreed, planned, and executed. Why? Because the 138th article of the Constitution states that no body, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to the courts and judges in the use of a judge; he cannot send them to the general; he cannot give advice and advice. In this case, won't we bring the open Constitution breach to the agenda of Congress during a process where the executive officer admits his influence on legislation from television programs? Aren't we going to discuss their cause, their consequences? Of course we will, but, of course, there's a process that works on the judiciary of the KCK operations, which can't be interfered with. We want to underline that it's not very conscientious, moral and legal to withdraw, especially in the way that the Constitution has taken place today. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this was a confession. Why? Because the administration had not made such a statement since the beginning of this work, we are conducting an integrated project, and every step taken within the framework of this integrated project is within our knowledge. He did not say that the breach of the Constitution was so clear that he did not declare it to millions. This needs to be handled. Pascal has a saying, let's remind him, that if there is no justice for the ruling force, there is cruelty; if there is no power of justice, then there is weakness. There is a cruel rule in Turkey, and then there is a weak judgment. Here, in the middle of the two, we're fighting a radical democracy. Who's the target of TK operations at this point, Honourable Congressman? There are politicians, there are voters, there are academics, there are students, there are journalists, there are human rights advocates, there are lawyers, NGOs, intellectuals, writers and painters. I think the most important of these topics is the human rights advocates, because if the administration has made a decision at the point where human rights violations are committed, there's also an example in the world for this not to be revealed -- there's also a pattern of this -- that human rights advocates are first interrupted, they're silenced, then fundamental rights and freedoms are suspended, and those who fight human rights are tried to be silenced, and these violations don't back down. Again, respected lawmakers, what is the continuation of ACK operations? What does this bring to Turkey? Look, at the center of these operations, the solution to the Kurdish problem -- I'm saying it in a nail -- is being made public. On the contrary, it is clear and clear that there is no longer a Kurdish problem. Why? There's a problem with Turkey. Why? The Kurds' struggle for freedom... we don't want to start the sentence as Kurds, but we have our own problems, we have our own unique rights violations, so we start with the Kurds, but it's a Turkey problem. There is a republic before and a republic after. The period has been brought up by massacres, period by period by coup. After the 1980 coup in Diyarbakır Prison, the PKK came on the agenda with the truth following the violence in the prison. The solution is at the door today, but the task of opening this door is with AKP (AKP) who comes to power at 50 per cent, but instead of opening this door and going in, it is preferable to be returned just on the eve of the solution. Why? There were a lot of ways to try, all of which were tried. I'm looking at it now: the problem has been throughout the history of the republic. What was the strategy? The Sharq was the Islamic Plan, the total war, the integrated project today. How did management work? There was an State of Emergency through public investigators, martial law, then officially State of Emergency, private security areas today. Again, we are looking at laws and laws: the laws of Tagriri quiet, 141, 142 of the Turkish Penal Code, and then democratization, which exist today. What about the courts? Yes, the Supreme Courts, martial law courts, state security courts, today's special officials are severe criminal courts. Any change in the M.O.? No. So, so many procedures have been implemented, which one has the solution been taken from? Which one was a little closer to the solution? Yes, when dialogue and the method of negotiation were adopted, the rate of conflict in Turkey really dropped, at the point of establishing social peace in Turkey, the trust of our people, the people of Turkey, but somehow this method was abandoned at the beginning of this year. There are no untested methods. There's a method that's been tried and seen to have results, but it's been returned from the door. Yes, I've just counted, throughout the history of the republic, there have been processes that follow one another in strategy, in law, but at the moment of the day, yes, the solution is at the door, but there is a government that resists not opening this door. Who are we doing this for? We do it on behalf of the people of Turkey. What are we doing this for? We're doing it to solve the Turkey problem. On the contrary, the problem has become Turkish. Today the struggle for freedom for Kurdish people will be the main step in Turkey's democratisation. It's very clear and real. There is a Turkey problem, there is a democracy problem in Turkey, there is a regime problem in Turkey that needs democratisation. In order to take the step forward, this Parliament will be able to carry out its duties as soon as possible. Political power is in the position to take steps, to reveal its projects. The project we're putting out is clear, it's obvious, it's democratic autonomy. We call it democratic autonomy, not ethnic based, not land-based, but democratic autonomy for all of Turkey, for all identities. We are ready to discuss this as well, but there is a fact of political power that escapes the agendas of this debate, and then comes with projects that will deepen the solution to the public, and then we do it in an integrated way. You will say to the opposition, and you will shut up, and you will not discuss it. There is a fact of the political power that is unacceptable to us. Mr. Group Deputy President, I think all those words should be said to Mr. Prime Minister. We said, "Everyone must put their hands on this stone." We said, "Everyone, the MHP Group, the CHP Group, and the AKP Group, the political parties outside the BDP and Parliament must put their hands on it, but there must be courage and determination." Just being strong is not enough to come to power by 50 percent, it requires courage and determination. The stone is a very heavy stone, a stone that exists throughout the history of the republic; you may be under it, you may need to pay the price. You're going to put your hand under that stone, and again, we've never given our political will to anyone, nor entrusted it to anyone, but it's true, the AKP Power told us to trust us. But we've had an experience in the years when the republic was founded, and we see today as similar to the years when the republic was established, and we'll never make the mistake again. We're not going to hand over our duties and powers to anyone to represent us, we're not going to entrust our political will, we're not going to do it. If today's AKP power is on the agenda of an unprecedented political genocide operation, then, yes, the bottom line is that they ask us to entrust our existing political will. When did they want it? They wanted it in the September 12th referendum process. We could have discussed it, but we made our choice. The people of Turkey are not alternatives. We're not in favor of status, we're not in favor of false democracy, we're in favor of the collective, willing, equal, free union of these people outside of both of them. Of course, a new Constitution will be the first step. Of course, we said that we would play our part in the construction process of this Constitution, but we said that we would not side with the delay of the people's demand, and that we would not give our political will to anyone, if we did not. The mistakes we made in the years of the Republic, the democratization of the republic today, we're not going to do it these days, we're not going to entrust it to anyone, we're not going to discuss our political will, it's not everyone's fault and account. Again, there's talk of unity on this stand. If you didn't at least mention it today -- because really yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister, what he said in the group talk last week -- there were talks he made yesterday -- how will the unity of the people provide? There will be massacres, unprecedented massacres in history, there will be suffering, tears, and you will make politics over those tears. You're going to race the pain, and you're going to get up and you're going to talk, you're going to talk, you're going to talk, you're going to write, you're going to call names. We know that. As of today, as of visual media, the Prime Minister and the AKP's Authority no longer have an account, but there are still artists in the written media, and now they're in the target, and they're trying to be silenced. We were, yes, I went to Roboski, where I was the first deputy to go to Uludere, to Klaban, and to Middlesu. Before I go...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0078par0172	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0077par0173	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0078par0174	But we never do, Mrs. Ayla. We're not. So let's not push it, and then I have to do it to everyone.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0077par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0078par0178	Thank you, thank you. Do it for everyone, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Commander, the longer we break the rules, the more it goes on. Well, I sleep on my own and everybody else.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0079par0181	It's not a violation, Mr. President, it's an initiative.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0078par0182	No, I get it, but I'm just saying... we've been going that way for the fifth year since the beginning. We respect each other for her, too. Yes, it's Mr. Bulent Turan, the Istanbul MP against him. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0186	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the group's proposal for the investigation of these operations regarding the current agenda. We're talking about an important proposal here today, an important proposal. On the one hand, those who have been happy with the success we've been waiting for for for for years, the terrorist organization and its extensions, on the other hand, the manpower we've lost for 30 years, the economic loss we've lost, hoping for the benefit of the continuation of terrorism. However, our government, which goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on The end of terror is our biggest concern and our prayers. Dear lawmakers, basic rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution can be banned only within the limits set by the Constitution. Democracys around the world prefer security for the future of democracy when they are in a dilemma. Because law can never be an instrument or a justification for abuse of rights. Only this principle can explain the obstruction of rights mentioned in the proposal. In addition, the amendment to the Constitution and the Civil Law appears to be very clear. As you all know, the 138th Article of the Constitution states the principle of general legislation, so it is absolutely forbidden to speak, to make a motion in parliament regarding the duty of a walking judicial body regarding an investigation that is being discussed.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0081par0191	It's not a motion. You don't know, he's changed, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0192	The BDP has already dropped this group proposal with our Speaker's intervention and turned it into a new suggestion with a word play.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0081par0193	There are other suggestions, you don't know.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0194	It's all very clear. Our friends, who are uncomfortable with TK operations, have changed the proposal they've made, and it's about ACK operations. I hope all of Turkey's problems are your problems, but you don't have a problem, you have a problem, you have a problem, you have a problem, you've got an TK operation, you've got to stop all the other transactions. You don't have the right, and you don't have the right.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0081par0196	The BDP people are being arrested in the ACK operations. Of course it's our problem, not yours.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0197	So what I'm trying to say is that wordplay and change of motion don't break the heart of the matter. I already think that your yelling, your harsh language, your distress is the greatest sign of our success in this matter.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0081par0198	You're doing great, bravo!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0199	If we hadn't started the ACK operations, if we hadn't started the operations that you were uncomfortable with, we would have started screaming just like you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0082par0200	Look, here's how you confessed to interfering with the judiciary. We celebrate your intervention in the judiciary!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0201	But we're comfortable, in this country, doing the work of law, execution, judgment.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0083par0202	We know about your interference with the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0203	Don't let me give you the answer you deserve to be a lady, please calm down, okay?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0083par0204	Answer me, no one's afraid of you, answer me!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0084par0205	Mr. President, he's making a sexual distinction, please warn him.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0206	So what I'm trying to say, my dear friends, is that for this country to go further, we're doing everything we can to make freedoms live on a much higher level, all of us together in this country, but once again, the Constitution is clear. The Constitution of 138 states: Only legal action on an ongoing procedure can be carried out. So let's change this bench and make it a judge's bench. Let's say that this is innocent, this is not. Let's say that this is true, this is wrong. Let's say this is wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0085par0207	You're doing it, the AKP's doing it. Tell that to the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0208	We're saying something, and he's saying that there are no more judges in this country who sit with a whistle, and there's no longer a judge in this country who's been stripped of all authority because he's done his duty because he's written one indictment. Our judges who know this are doing everything -- and so is the KCK, and so is Ergenekon, and so are the other gangs -- and they are doing what they deserve to do.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0086par0209	The Prime Minister gives orders, they do what he says, you're right!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0210	Look, dear friends, I've studied the proposal of the BDP, which they replaced with the word play. There's an approach there, I suggest you all read it. In the old proposal of your BDP friends, they say that after the September 12th referendum, these operations began to increase. They say that such judicial processes have accelerated since the September 12th referendum, and read what you wrote, which is very interesting. But that's exactly what I'm proud of, and that's exactly why I'm applauding our entire nation for saying yes, and thank you again for everyone who says yes. Why? Now the prosecutors can do their job well, do it without fear, and if I make this indictment, what will happen to me if I don't think about it?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0087par0211	Are prosecutors independent?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0212	So what BDP is actually saying is an act of appreciation. After the September 12th referendum, after saying yes, I think it's the success of this September 12th referendum, when the trial becomes stronger, when the operations become clearer. Of course, my dear friends, friends of the BDP, they shout and shout, and I stand for calmness. He speaketh his word, and liveth in fear of him who feareth. We have no fear, we have words and we will talk. I wish that your voice would be so loud that you would oppose those who did these operations, that our brothers and sisters would have been martyrs. If only you had raised your voice above them!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0087par0214	You're responsible for this war, you're responsible for these policies.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0215	So, my dear friends, if the goal is to make politics, if the goal is to free the language of politics, then why oppose these operations? If there are errors in the application -- which I think there is -- we sit down, we talk, we fix, but it's true. Nowhere, arrests have increased. Nowhere, the prosecutor has launched an operation. There is no criticism. We advocate legislation, execution, the independence of the judiciary in this country, and that's why we did the September 12th referendum. So, again, I'm telling you, these guys are starting to do their part better, or the prosecutor who's scared, the judge who's afraid, the court can't teach him anything. And We suffered for him for a number of years, all together. We want him more independent, more free. I want to correct one more misinformation. The proposal says: "Investigation is increasing. " I looked from very short Google, I asked the Ministry, eight decades ago, the prisoner rate of 50 per cent has now dropped to 28 per cent. The arrest is going down, my friends, and as you say, the arrest is not going up. Your illness is not because of an increase in arrest, but because of the arrest of the people you see as strong. We're running low on arrest.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0088par0217	How many are there?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0218	How many are there? We'll see, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0088par0219	130 grand.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0220	Among the arrested are the mayors. They are called the MPs. They are called the MPs. Look, dear friends, imprisonment is based on crime, not on authority. If a person is to blame, detention or other important measures of the court will not come up or come up.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0089par0221	To you, being Kurd is a crime.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0222	I'm just saying, in what law is it that a mayor can't be caught hiding terrorists in his home?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0090par0223	Who gave you that information? Where did you get that information?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0224	What law does he write? What law tells the mayors of the BDP to leave their accounts to the cleaning workers? So I think it's helpful to take a closer look at these arrests or other judicial processes.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0091par0225	Study hard, good. You're always giving false information to the public.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0226	Besides, it's a political moral problem to criticize the decision you don't like and to applaud the decision we like. Once again, the judiciary is independent in Turkey, and these three men in Turkey will have a much clearer mandate in the Constitution, hopefully in the new era. I say, my dear friends, that after the BDP referendum on September 12th, the stronger judgment, the more encouraged judgment, no matter who gets hurt, no matter who gets hurt, will continue to operate from every channel. The mayors of the BDP -- if necessary -- will also answer if they are assisting in terrorism, but will continue to be the prosecutor who dug up the bones in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0091par0228	Those bones came out by accident, so don't make a fuss over them.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0080par0229	We'll continue in every subject, in every field, with all the powers we can. Whoever is doing wrong, who is wrong, must answer in front of the judge to make this country's future dark. It is not our duty to criticize this judgment, but to relax its mission, to do more work. The September 12th referendum is the beginning. We will all sit at the table together, a freer Constitution, a stronger judgment, and a judgment that can be maintained by stronger human rights. For these reasons, I say that we will reject the offer of this BDP, with respect to all of you, because of the facial expression of our friends who prefer only to shout when they look in the mirror.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0092par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0093par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0234	Wait a second, wait a second, let me just say this first. Congressmans, we all come to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, fighting on equal terms, women and men. So there are more MPs than women or men, under this roof. (HPP, MHP, and BDP in rows) So we all come in very heavy struggles. In that respect, I'd like to ask all of you to pay attention to each other, especially in a time when we have women's rights organizations, writers, painters, and society. Now, yes, Mr. Buldan...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0095par0237	Let him take that back! He needs to take back the segregation of men and women.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0238	No, it's not a man-woman distinction, it's a female lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0095par0239	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0240	Mr. Tanal, I warned you, please, I warned all of you, I warned all of us, including me. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0242	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0243	Mr. Akat...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0244	Mr. President, I'm here to inform you that the BDP Group...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0245	Why do you want it?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0246	He made some accusations about our group...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0247	But now...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0248	Mr. President, I want a word too.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0249	Then you'll have to switch places.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0250	By referring to the conversation I've made...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0251	No, I just gave it to you on behalf of your group.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0252	Mr. President, it's not just one, there's more than one tease.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0253	I mean, you didn't... you didn't pick on your group.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0254	Not to myself, but to the conversation I'm having.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0255	Then you'll have to switch places. You're a lawyer. So let's make a deal. Okay?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0096par0256	You can give it to two people.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0094par0257	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0097par0260	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately, have just made a very unfortunate statement from the speaker. It's particularly clear from here that the judiciary is responsible for the KCK operations, but it's clear from the Prime Minister's orders that the AKP directs the judiciary, which is very clear. I especially consider it an unfortunate statement about the arrest of our mayors and the presence of terrorists in the homes of our mayors. Yes, our mayors have been arrested, right, and our MPs are now arrested, our city councilmen, our city councilmen, our friends in the women's council and the youth council are also under arrest, yes, that's right, but these are all our friends fighting for peace, for democracy, for freedom. The only reason they've been arrested is because they've been arrested for exposing your dirty face, your dirty laundry.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0098par0262	You're dirty, dirty!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0097par0263	Let's call it a challenge! Go ahead, arrest us too! Here you go! You're arresting anyone who's for peace, who's for democracy, who's for rights and law, who's for freedom. We committed the same crime. Here, arrest us, too. We call it a challenge. Let's go to the AKP government and the Prime Minister!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0099par0266	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0100par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me finish this discussion, Mr. President. I guess power changes you. Yesterday's underdogs were cruel today, and we forgot the House transcripts. I read: On January 30, 2001, Mr. Bkent Arinc, a member of the Favourite Party, asked 29 of his friends for a parliamentary inquiry into terrorism and the Hezbollah terrorist organization. Mr. Arinc: My dear friends, the 138th article of the Constitution does not prevent such a research commission from being established. Nobody hide behind this. In Turkey, tens of thousands of cases were in trouble in court, while this Parliament passed a probation and a postponement law, which passed the Coach University Law when the trial against Koç University was in the District. So don't hide behind the Constitution 138. The Constitution is hidden behind 138. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here are the House transcripts, January 30, 2001, Mr. Arinc. Everybody read it.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0101par0280	In favor of the Peace and Democracy Party's group proposal, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0102par0283	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party spokesman listens to our friends and we hear that there is no human rights violation in Turkey or that the right to a fair trial has not been violated. So, I'm curious, and I'm asking the question: Why is the European Court of Human Rights condemning Turkey to compensation because of long imprisonment in Turkey and the fact that lawsuits in Turkey have not been completed during reasonable time, and why are you, as a government, paying the compensations we've been convicted of? Why don't you tell the European Court of Human Rights, brother, there are no human rights violations in Turkey. The right to a fair trial is not violated. Cases end in reasonable time. Why don't you say that your compensation is not right, it is not right. Look, dear lawmakers, you've already handed over the duties of the Parliament to the Council of Ministers... to make the law. Thank God you've established the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Together, you say, "Let's establish a constitution by compromise." But on the other hand, not even with the bill of law, but with a motion given when the bill is being discussed, you change a clause of the Constitution. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not have the authority to interpret the Constitution. The Constitution was interpreted here the other day. On the basis of the majority of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the Constitution cannot state its views as a Constitutional clause. On the basis of interest, the Constitutional Court is responsible for commenting on relevant issues. But here you have changed the Constitution with a motion. It's actually a constitutional offense. The Constitution is not a violation. A violation of the Constitution is another thing, a violation of the Constitution on the basis of the majority in Parliament is another. You have violated the Constitution. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, you've given the Prime Minister the power of law enforcement, the authority of law enforcement, the authority of law enforcement. Lawmakers in Turkey's Grand National Assembly have the right to conduct inspections; parliamentary research motion, geneor or question motion. Thank you for that, and God bless you, you've given authority to bureaucrats and officers in the Department of Laws and Decisions. So today, lawmakers have become people who have been audited by officers in Laws and Decisions. Could such legislation be such a control activity? Is it only the duty of opposition members of the opposition party to oppose them? It's everyone's job to stand up to them. Dear lawmakers, as the Republican People's Party, when the terrorist arrangements are being made, we take the utmost care that the regulation does not weaken the fight against terrorism, but we do not want human rights, democracy and the universal principles of law to be violated, damaged. In this country, you can't think that everyone you see is a terrorist, you can't kill people by thinking they're terrorists; it's not in international law. There's something really serious going on in this country. There's an incident going on in the nation. We ask questions, and we say, "Where did you get your intelligence?" I asked that question. I hope, and I wish, Mr. Speaker, to send that motion back. There's no answer to that question motion, but the defense is that we killed because we thought he was a terrorist. My dear friends, look what a bitter defense. You think people are terrorists, then you kill them by thinking they're terrorists. Then is there any guarantee that you'll think I'm a terrorist and not kill me? So you think people who want to study in college without money are terrorists, you judge them in private jurisdictions, is there any guarantee that you won't kill them tomorrow?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0103par0290	We're judging?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0102par0291	You think you're a terrorist, using the rights of meetings and demonstration walks to individuals. You think people struggling for food, for bread, for freedom are terrorists. You think the university's scientists, the rectors, are terrorists.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0103par0292	Where did he think he was?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0102par0293	You're making the chief of staff, who've fought against terrorism in this country for years, be tried as terrorists.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0103par0294	We're making you judge?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0102par0295	Now, who do you mean by terrorist? But on the other hand, you're building a mobile court on behalf of people who are really members of the PKK. And he says, "I'm a member of the PKK organization." No, you can't be that kind of thing, the judge says. No, I brought you Abdullah Ocalan's message. The judge says: "Even though he said so, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, He says I'm a member. Now, fellas, what kind of terrorist doesn't look like a terrorist to you? Make a distinction. You're really starting to get scary. You came to power using democracy, but now you allow democracy to be slaughtered in order to stay in power. It's a shame, it's a sin, friends. Every administration does this; the associations do that, the political parties do that, the government in the country does that. Democracy is used until it comes to governance, then democracy is ignored. My dear friends, look, why are these people being judged? Why is Mehmet Haberal being tried? I don't say, "Why are those arrested in the case of Engin Alan, Mustafa Balbay?" I don't say, "Why are they being tried?" I ask, as a lawyer, what is the reason for the arrest of Mehmet Haberal, Engin Alan, Mustafa Balbay, other MPs, other prisoners? That's not what I'm asking, it's the European Union. Look, friends: the Justice and Development Party focused on promoting Turkey's regional interests during the rising Arab spring wind with democratic demands, while there was a decline in human rights within the country. Since 2005, the government has pushed human rights reforms to the 2nd plan, and has taken a severe blow to freedom of expression and organization by continuing to prosecute journalists, writers and hundreds of Kurdish political activists. I am not saying this, I am not saying this. Again, the continuation of the European Union report: Turkey's laws, prosecutors, judges and politicians still can't keep up with this momentum. The broad scope of Turkey's definition of terrorism still causes those who do not have concrete evidence of logistics or financial support for terrorism or involvement in acts of violence to be charged with the most serious acts of terrorism. Prosecutors prosecute people for nonviolent writing and speeches. Politicians are suing for criminal insults against those who criticize them. The courts have ruled a sentence without considering the obligation to maintain freedom of expression. All the laws in force that restrict freedom of expression must be reviewed in a broad way, he says. Which one should I read, my dear friends? Look, the government says I'm bringing the judge package. I've studied the package of judgments, eighty-seven articles; two articles are relevant to execution, twenty-six are related to bankruptcy, two or three are related to the Law on Criminal Accounts. You know what his greatest innovation is? The court says the verdicts should be written on grounds. It's already in the existing law, I'm clearly reading CMK 101/2. See what it says here: the arrest, the continuation of the arrest, or the refusal of an evacuation in this matter will be shown along with the grounds of legal and actual reasons for our rebellion, my dear friends. Look, I'm telling you again, why are these people being tried? I'm not saying, of course, that everyone who's being prosecuted or investigated for committing a crime should be tried, but I'm saying that we have the CMK, we have the Constitution, we have the European Court of Human Rights, we have the European Court of Rights decisions, we have the speech here, Mr. Abdullah Gül. Now, I'm asking you, do the prosecutors or the prosecutors who did this criminal investigation and the judges have the right to be complacent? Can he do as he pleases? Then it's not a state law state, it's a state prosecutor and a state of law. That's what your friends opposed in the past, and that's what I've been told in the past. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We don't want the law, we want the law. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0104par0306	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Ramadan Can is a member of the Kırıkkale MP against the Peace and Democracy group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0105par0310	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the group proposal of the Party for Peace and Democracy. I hereby salute your delegation. The 138th article of the Constitution, titled "Jurisprudence," was read here. I want to read it too: 138 - Judges are independent in their duties; they judge according to their conscience, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the law. No body, authority, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; they cannot send them into the generalty; they cannot advise and preach. There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly, no discussion, no statement. Article 138 of the Constitution is open. However, the Peace and Democracy Party continues to propose a matuf group to prevent the parliament from working. The group's proposal was not approved by the Court, but was replaced by a re-emergence. Again, however, the content was expressed here, contrary to the spirit and word of the Constitution. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Peace and Democracy Party, in fact, raised the same motion here on 24/11/2011, and rejected this group proposal with the overwhelming majority of the Assembly General Assembly. I'd like to mention a few paragraphs in particular in this group proposal. It's said here that following the Prime Minister's instructions, these structures have been moved on. The following structures are lawmakers, mayors, mayors, city council members, city council members. No one's office, no one's position will grant him the privilege of committing a crime. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have said there is no way to interfere with the ongoing judicial process. It is the duty of the state to go to law, to the Constitution, to make an alternative to itself in accordance with the law. Of course, it's a self-defense mission, and it's a state-of-the-art mission. The government will go through all this with no hesitation. So, what is our mission here as living and running? It is our duty here as law and order to carry out law enforcement activities, especially at the request of the judiciary. So there's an investigation, and if there are suspects in the investigation, they're being handed over to the prosecution. If there's a problem with applications here, you know, the prosecution has the right to appeal to both the prosecutor and the judge in preparation. On the other hand, if there are such difficulties during the prosecution process, such practical problems, then the right to appeal to the relevant judge and the court. Despite all of this, it's not possible to accept statements expressed here as if the planner, the programmer, was the AK PARTY government. Mr. President, with all due respect, no one's going to mind that if there's an alternative structure in the state, if there's an alternative state search, the state will go on and on about it. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the group proposal of the BDP, dated 24/11/2011, reads exactly as follows: The length of the KCK operations are observed with concern as to how long they will last, who they will cover, and the length of their imprisonment times. The prime minister's statements indicate that the arrests will continue, which indicates that the case under the name "KCK" is not legal, but political. This Parliament must discuss the ACK. An illegal armed organisation is a PKK armed illegal organisation. Well, then why was the TK set up? Who founded the ACK? What is it? What was it built for? It should be investigated. It's called the group proposal. Of course, you know the answer to that question better than we do, but you can't even answer that question, so let's try. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, political academys have been established under the direction of the terrorist head, as well as the political academys, as well as the organisational training centers. The political academy established within the framework of instructions is the purpose of preparing ideologically trained staffs for the 14th Article of the Science Enlightenment Committee. In the countryside, all training activities of the PKK organisation are incompatible with lectures taught at political academys. Again, I'm reading the exact statement of the terrorist head dated 20/5/2009.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0106par0327	You're reading police fezleke there! If you have a decision, bring it and read it. You can't just read a police fezleke!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0105par0328	The terrorist leader says that for years, schools should be opened for Kurds. They don't even do that, even though I told them the Academys should be opened.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0106par0329	Don't read the police statement, read it if it's final.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0105par0330	The DTP needs to raise thousands, tens of thousands of staff. Why don't they do it? Because the theoretical cognitive levels aren't available. If they want to succeed, we have to raise tens of thousands of people.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0106par0331	Make up your mind and talk. Shame, shame! You're clouding the judgment by reading police fezleke.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0105par0332	This reprimand, this nagging structure, has built it. Of course, the government will go over this structure. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the statement of a senior member of the organization again. He says that independent Kurdistan can be built in the revolutionary public war. Note, friends, that guerrillas raised from political academys will be actively involved in this war. That's what the KCK-PK relationship is about.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0106par0334	Well done, keep reading the police briefing. Make a decision, read it.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0105par0335	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the CK is an alternative state search for a configuration within a state established by the PKK against the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0106par0336	Bring a final decision and read it.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0107par0337	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0106par0338	Shame, shame, you're all reading police fezleke.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0107par0339	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0108par0340	The judicial process continues. Let's let the independent judge decide for himself. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, on the other hand, have been brought up here regarding the number of prisoners. The number of prisoners is constantly diminishing. I'd like to inform you that there are 897 prisoners and 1,922 suspects. On the other hand, the CHP spokesman has been transferred here to the AK PARTY. Of course, this load doesn't work, it doesn't have a reason; it's purely speculative, subjective, advocacy. We say to the CHP spokesman and Republican People's Party: Can you determine your side in this configuration of the structure that is trying to form an alternative state in the depths of the state?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0109par0345	It's specific, it's specific. Mind your own business.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0108par0346	Please, we'd like you to determine. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers will never allow the Republic of Turkey to transfer its land into another structure, into matufic structures, terror events, and those who are instigating it. I salute you all, and commend you for the group proposal to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0110par0351	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0111par0352	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0112par0353	Yeah, what did he say? He didn't say anything!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0113par0354	Mr. President, then me.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0112par0355	What happened, Mr. President, what did he say?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0114par0356	The saffrons are not specific. He said.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0112par0357	That's why it's unclear.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0114par0360	Yes, dear lawmakers, now people have to look in the mirror first. Now, the representative of the first-born Justice and Development Party, who is involved with the terrorist organisation, said that through my speech to myself or to the Republican People's Party, we need to establish our ranks in order to establish an alternative state within the state. We didn't really set up a mobile court for members of the outside PKK group at midnight. We didn't send the state's judge, the Attorney General of the Minister of Justice and the governor of the state, the state's prosecutors. We didn't bring Turkish law to its knees in front of the PKK, and we didn't do it in secret from the Turkish people. Our president didn't send his first advisor to Oslo....to negotiate with PKK terrorist groups. Now, I want to understand you: you're like this and you're like this. Actually, you're the one who's confused.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0115par0364	Make your side, make your side.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0114par0365	You'll be the first to determine your side. Are you against terrorism or not? You're the one who patted terror on the back in this country. In this country, you are the ones who have never taken any precautions against this terror that feeds from northern Iraq. But we don't see people like you as terrorists. While fighting against terrorism, we say that law should not be allowed to deviate from the principles of democracy. That's our thing. We're here to... Look, when the mayors of the TK case were arrested, I put the first reaction on this bench in the 23rd term, because I'm a lawyer. You may investigate a chosen person's crimes, but you'll never forget they're human. And ye have set up there every kind of sheep, and ye have done that which is not right for man, and afterward ye make amends. Yeah, you're doing it on the one hand and you're apologizing!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0115par0367	Show your side.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0114par0368	You guys, you're gonna look in the mirror, you're gonna look in the mirror!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0116par0369	Show your side.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0114par0370	You, now, it seems, have moved from the era of opening to the period of hair, if you know what I mean, you've left democracy and law aside. Now, you've begun to cut off the hawk. First, you must answer this: What did Hakan Fidan, today's Undersecretary of MIT, as special advisor to the Prime Minister, meet in Oslo, and why? The state has spoken, the government... let them go and explain what they discussed. My dear friends, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0117par0373	Why are you yelling?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0114par0374	We have no right to learn from you in the fight against terrorism, nor do you have the right to teach us a lesson, nor do we have the right to do so.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0118par0376	Say your side!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0119par0377	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0120par0378	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0119par0379	Mrs. Ayla, without teasing...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0120par0380	Here you are, Mrs. Ayla. I've been warned to tell our fellow public defenders to do their activities in the lobby, reading newspapers, chatting with each other, and I'm informing you from here. Here you are, Mrs. Ayla.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0121par0384	Thank you, too, Mr. President. We came up with a research proposal because we see the problem as the country's problem, but the level of discussion here shows that the problem is still far from the point of political resolution. On the contrary, the opposition has held hands, and they are anxious to get a political rout over the problem. We need to find a common solution here. If you're not interested in the size of the KCK, if you're concerned about the fact that this country is the country that has the most terrorists in it, then let it concern you, so go on. You can look at it from a common point of view. You may not look at it from where we're looking at it, but if you don't want this country to be called something that its people don't deserve, then you're gonna have to do it on a basis where you can meet it. Another dimension: Mr. AKPlı Hatip stated from here, there are numerous cases in Turkey today under the name of the KCK, which has been launched in special authorities heavy criminal courts. No indictment, including the main case, has revealed a claim to our mayors that he had just made from the stand. Who made that claim to him, so who made it? Where did he get this information? Who's working for the AKP? How dare they inform the public of Turkey from this bench, misinformation? How is it that Turkey has the courage to use its anger against one another in such a political way? Let them express it. If they can't prove it, we put the rest of it on the public conscience. Yesterday the Prime Minister was asking about our conscience. Where is our conscience? Yes, our conscience... is being reputed on the stand. While we cried for Mizgin Right in Batman, your deputies were not there. Your deputies weren't there when we cried for four young girls in Siirt.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0122par0388	No way!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0123par0389	Oh, shit!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0121par0390	After we got out of there, they had the courage to come there. After we left Roboski, they had the courage to come there. Our conscience is always on the side of the oppressed. Don't make promises you can't get out of this chair. Think about it 10 times before you dare to talk to our mayors, our constituents, and then talk to them once.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0123par0391	That's right.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0121par0392	The language is the same as the person. Loud and clear. If everything you say and you can't fill, isn't today, it'll come back to you tomorrow. Just as in the 90s, those who can't talk and sit down and stuff themselves are thrown into the wastebasket of history today, that's where the AKP waits if it can't solve the problem. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0124par0398	I submit to your votes the group proposal of the Peace and Democracy Party: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 25.01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 26 October 2011, it was suggested by Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and his friends that the meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be read to the Grand National Assembly on the same day and held in the same session of the Parliament Research Proclamation on whether the TİB was carried out in the murder of Hrant Dink (92 rows) and other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first word in favour of the Republican People's Party's group's proposal belongs to Mr. Veli Ağbaba. Here you go, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0125par0412	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion to the murder of Hrant Dink. As I begin to speak, I salute you. I am Ahmet Kaya and Hrant Dink, the victim of hate speech, as well as a citizen of the Turkish political community of Ismet Inönu and Turgut Özal. The massacre of Hrant Dink was a product of collective activity. It's been planned for months, deaf sultan heard it, but the AKP, the ruling one of the era, didn't hear it. The massacre was transferred to the national emotion organization before the blood dried out. We haven't seen or heard of this so-called organization. This imaginary organization was the perpetrator of the fascist killings that went from Ali to Uður Mumcuya, Musa Anter, Hrant Dink, to Hrant. Every time he wanted to cover up a case, he got attached to those feelings. That's what the courts decided. He cleared the murders, hid the responsible. The Hrant Dink case took its place in this painting. The court has decided that there is no organization. Hrant Dink was shot once again by this decision. Beşiktaş reached out to the courtroom. And he'll lie there until justice is done. The gunshot wound to the neck will always bleed. Their eyes will be on our eyes. His eyes will seek the lord of the oppressors. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this is a decision to wash your face. It's a product of the effort to make the massacre innocent. A decision could not be expected other than the mentality of the governor in charge of the murder, the deputy governor of the police, and the one that promoted those involved in the murder one by one. In order to clear the province, the police and the gendarme triangle, the court committee has laid the murder on two shooters. That's the summation of the unfair decision. The point is shame for our country. In order to avoid this embarrassment, the case must be brought into the hands of humanity, and all those responsible, including the province, the police and the gendarme, must be brought before the court and given the necessary punishments. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Just yesterday, in Erzurum, the sign of education without money was considered evidence of crime. Young people were fined for membership in the organization. The charge of Jahan Redgül was considered criminal evidence, and twenty-two-year-old Jahan (Jihan) was sentenced to forty-five years in prison. Forty-four months in prison per egg from a student's bag. Haircuts, umbrellas, selling concert tickets were considered evidence of organizational crime. With various excuses, the mindset that puts young people, journalists in jail, the unpublished book, counting the evidence of organization membership, did not see or see the organisation rising through province and security. On January 17, a trial was held in Malatya. There was a mother on trial, Hatice Harman. The judge was there because he was carrying a picture of his daughter who died in prison. What conscience would it be to judge a mother for carrying a picture of her daughter? What law wants to put a mother's pain in jail? Nothing could be more unconscionable than private officials with AKP products. Hatice, the mentality that sued the mother for organization propaganda, the mentality that couldn't find an organization in the Hrant Dink massacre, are the same blind, the same deaf. Most children were massacred in Uludere. Twenty-seven days have passed, not a single person has been brought to trial, and the prosecution has not even applied to a single person's testimony. The families of the murdered will receive 123,000 liras. You buy lives with money? Are you mocking the pain of poor hearts? Is it okay to brag about money, mock death? Didn't your ministers ever get your heart hurt when you were showing off in front of a camera to pay condolences to people who weren't even related? The cruelty and inefficiency of the Hrant Dink case appeared to us in the Uludere. The master of injustice continued to read the same chorus, and blamed the opposition, and roared at us when we went to Uludere. The Hrant Dink case came up, the same attitude, he didn't like the decision. What did you do to make this decision that you didn't like? Did you get statements from people who were targeting Hrant in the newspapers and TVs? Did you question the people who did the black campaign? You removed the governor who threatened Hrant? You brought the authorities before the court who hid the knowledge that Hrant would be killed? Did you punish the police commissioner who tried to pin the murder on the shooters? Which bureaucrat, what authority did you file on? What documents did you collect to clarify the murder, and when did you give the records on the TİB? You didn't collect any documents, you didn't gather any information. You've moved the province to Parliament, the police to the province. You've awarded the county, the police and the gendarme triangle with promotions. What's the point of making crocodile tears when you're doing this? Why weren't there hundreds of students, dozens of journalists, eight MPs imprisoned in the Hrant Dink massacre? Or were they in the dark? Whatever the reason, come out and explain. Why don't you take action to shed light on the unsubs? Why don't you want the truth commission set up? Are you afraid the truth will come out? If you're sincere, we had nothing to do with these events. If you say so, here's your chance. Call the proposal to establish a commission to investigate the unsolveds, massacres, yes. Dear lawmakers, there is a great deal of hatred in the massacre of Hrant Dink. Hate crimes have reached serious levels in this country, and there is a lack of law. I've prepared a bill of law on hate crimes to compensate for this lack. He'll be in the House soon. That's when we'll see your sincerity. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yesterday at your group meeting, you performed a crying ceremony for Musa Anter! And thou didst tell of the afflictions of the son of Moses Anter. The day before you cried in the group hall, prosecutors banned Moses Anter. But you never mentioned it. You ate with the wolf, and you shived with the sheep. What kind of justice is that? Or that's your justice, isn't it? You are not the destiny of this land; and many kings, and kings, and sultans have passed away without a shadow. Their names were identified with cruelty, the people of Anatolia spoke of them with hatred, but the Pir Sultans, Sheikh Bedreddins, Mustafa Kemaller, Deniz Gezler, Uğur Mumcu, Hrant Dinks were not dead because they trusted the power of truth, not power of power; they walked proudly in the way they knew right; they stood by the oppressed; they defended justice; they were not masters of injustices, persecutions, injustices, slaughters, slaughters; they stood against them; they stood against them, they stood up and rose from the ground of the ashes of Anatolia. They have become our history, they have guided us, they have become the light of our future, they have become the hope of our people; they have gone, they have come a thousand; they have multiplied as they die; they have crossed mountains, they have crossed deserts; they have passed the flag of justice; they have become the fearful dream of executioners; they flowed as a river to tear the darkness; they have broken the dams of persecution. This is the story of the Hrants; this is the bright history of our country. See what the poet says, dear MPs: and the executioner woke up one night in his bed. He said, "My God, what a difficult riddle this is." Dear friends, I'm not one of those who goes extinct as long as I'm killed. I'm Alemi (I'm Maraşta Alemi), I'm Sunni, I'm Kurdish in 33 bullets, I'm Turkish in Balkan territory; I'm Jewish in the gas chamber, I'm Palestinian in Gaza, I'm 17 years old in Şişli, I'm 17 years old at the execution table, I'm 19 years old in the Blue Marmara, I'm black in Africa, I'm from America, I'm Iraqi in Abu Pezardan, I'm against all the oppressors. My sincere respects to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0433	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has made an accusation, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0127par0434	Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0438	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our esteemed congressman, in his earlier statement, have made unjust accusations. In particular, after the court ruling on the late Hrant Dink, there have been some articles and evaluations made in various media organs, and I want to make it clear that some of them are based on false and incomplete information. For one thing, our silence is our literature, our respect for the ongoing judicial process, and it's still due to our respect for the investigation of public officials by the İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Attorney General. Now...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0128par0441	Why didn't you have that respect before the referendum?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0442	Sir?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0128par0443	Why didn't you have that respect before the referendum?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0444	If you'll excuse me, I can't hear you, but...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0129par0445	Governor, you address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0130par0446	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0447	If you'll excuse me, I have an answer for all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0130par0448	Mr. Guler, you don't speak to those who speak, but to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0449	Mr. President, there's been a lot of research on this subject for five years, a lot of investigations, not one of which has been identified as our least responsibility. But I'm also saying that there is no such thing as being within our knowledge and failing to carry out our mission. I've been governor for 19 years in five counties, and I'm aware of the responsibility of my duty. Look, I specifically state from here, Mr. President, that I am ready to investigate, investigate, and prosecute any kind of research. If any responsibility for my mission is determined and prepared for any trial, I ask you from here, I will never take refuge behind my immunity, and my future will demand that my immunity be removed from you, I specifically state that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, my dear friends...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0131par0453	We made a request, what happened?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0132par0454	You're not a white man! If you're a hero, say yes to your research proposals. Why are you voting against research motions?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0455	Yes, I've done the research, and I'm prepared to pay the bill.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0132par0456	Your research will do you good.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0133par0457	Mr. Horseman, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0126par0458	However, I say that everyone should also pay the same account, which Mr. Ağbaba has expressed his opinion. Now, on this occasion again -- I don't want to speak on any other occasion, I don't want to speak in front of the press -- let me tell you, there are some relationships like the deep government that are being accused of. I don't know anything about the deep government, but there's one deep fact that I do know is that it's a deep nation, a deep nation that I've served for 40 years. It's not fair, you're short on information. I hope you've been unfair to me about this, and at the end of this investigation, we'll be able to talk to you about it again. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0134par0465	Against the Republican People's Party proposal...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0135par0466	Mr. President, may I make a statement?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0134par0467	Oh, for God's sake, he didn't pick on me. So I watched carefully from beginning to end, for the sake of God, and he never had a single sentence that made the slightest sense.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0135par0468	It's just an explanation.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0134par0469	No, I mean, you don't have to. Against Sivas MP Hilmi Bilgin. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0136par0473	Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the Republican People's Party Group that TİB records, which will break the mystery of Hrant Dink's murder, have made a statement against the group's proposal for the opening of parliamentary investigations under the relevant articles of the Constitution 98, on the charge that the necessary information and documents were not sent to the court and that the case was extended. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. As you know, the suspects of the Dink murder were arrested approximately 32 hours after the incident. This is an indication of how sensitive the administration is about the subject, how tight the work is. There is no right or legal reason for anyone to distort the case as if the government were making a judgment. As it is known, the administrative bodies must meet and comply with the demands of the judicial authorities. Regarding the process of this trial, the administration has carried out what has been demanded by the court, which has been referred to the administration by the judiciary, and will then carry out the case. Right after the murder, and in the process of trial, law enforcement and all relevant administrative institutions have performed their duties with precision in order to clarify the case under the authority vested in them by the law. In this sense, the Telecommunication Communication Presidency has been meticulously and urgently fulfilling the demands of the judicial authorities within the framework of the legislation. And 14 on the Hrant Dink case. Information and documents requested by the High Criminal Court of Telecommunications Communications President have been sent without delay. As part of this case, I submit to you all correspondence between the court and the TİB in order of history: 14. Its February 26, 2010 article on the release of base and communication information from the High Criminal Court reached TİB (TİB) on March 9, 2010. Information on the request was prepared and sent to court on April 1, 2010. The court's article dated June 3, 2011 has been asked to identify the cell tower information of all talks made at cell tower stations regarding the scene. The request reached TİB on 15 June 2011 and was contested on 17 June 2011. The appeal of the TİB (TİB) is İstanbul 9. The High Criminal Court's decision dated August 16, 2011 was rejected by the court. The rejection decision reached TİB on 15 September 2011. In order to meet the need for the court's rejection, the TİB (TİB) article of September 15, 2011, dated İstanbul 14. Sent to the High Criminal Court. The court's report on the representative talks held by the law enforcement unit assigned to the scene of the crime was published on November 14, 2011, on November 16, 2011. The meeting information for all base stations was collected and delivered to the tribunal's chair on 25 November 2011. The court has requested that a fax letter dated 29 November 2011 be sent immediately to indicate that they have not received the information for the cell tower. On November 30, 2011, TİB responded in writing. On December 9, 2011, the court demanded that TİB keep the information on the base station. TİB reported to the court that it archived all data on January 3, 2012. The content of the research motion states that TİB records will be completely deleted after three months of deletion in three months. This claim is based entirely on false information and does not reflect the truth. It is a legal obligation that TİB records must be maintained by the TİB until the legal process is completed. Dear lawmakers, the court case is in the appeal phase, the case is not closed, the process is not completed. We believe that during the appeals, the trial will satisfy doubts, ease the public conscience. As a result of the appeal review, the Supreme Court can make a very different decision than this decision, which is the duty of a completely independent judiciary. Right now, we don't think it's right to comment on a case to appeal. Here, in common sense, you have to wait for the appeal. We believe that justice will be served at this point, the public conscience will be relieved. Let our beloved nation now be sure that no dark event in Turkey will be lost in dark places, in rooms, as it used to be. No conspiracy, no conspiracy, no provocation can remain hidden because we have asked our beloved nation for authority to fight any kind of lawlessness, any status quo and any kind of guardianship, and we are acting in that direction, and we say with open heart that no crime will remain in the dark anymore, no criminal will stand on the shelves as an unknown. As you know, there is a constitutional decree on a case that no one can give orders or instructions to the courts and judges about a case that is being held, that there will be no questions asked in the legislature, that there will be no discussion. Here, especially us, the representatives of our nation, our entire nation should follow the course of justice, in common sense, with regard to such events. Dear lawmakers, about a year and a half ago as a country, we took an important public vote, and as a result of this public vote, the Constitutional amendment proposal came into effect with 58 per cent of our beloved nation's yes vote. We, the AK PARTY, believed that this would be a turning point in Turkey, and we were right. Those who fight cannot be called to account by those who say that the court has conducted investigations that make the coupters accountable to the independent Turkish judiciary and are a little bit embarrassed. Hopefully, our independent judgment will give the coupgers what they deserve by making the necessary judgments. Mr. President, we, the AK PARTY Group, believe that it would be better to work with the Parliamentary agenda set to do the work of our nation and our country, the leader country, Turkey, with the authority we have received from our beloved nation. Therefore, we do not support the Republican People's Party group's proposal because it is related to a case that is being seen and it is intended to change the agenda of the Assembly. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0137par0482	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0486	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate. I salute you all. However, before I speak, I would like to draw attention to the debate we've just submitted as the Peace and Democracy Party. In particular, what our Speaker says is also the opinion of our group. Men and women aren't separate here, we all carry MP IDs. I thank him, too, for giving such a warning on behalf of the House, but here is something I would like to point out to Fatma Şahin. Mr. Fatma Şahin is having a very serious discussion about the woman, expressing AKP's women's policies everywhere. I suggest to the Minister that we start with his group, start with the sexist approach of male surrogates in his group, and start with the female paralegals who applaud him, I think we'd be on the more important floor here. I feel it's necessary to remind you of that. In other words, I would also like to point out that if possible, men and men will use the word "ma'am" (ma'am) when they use it. This is a product of the sexist approach. Congressmans, in fact, when we just proposed a law on investigating TK arrests, the Constitution's Article 138 ▪ was cited, and it was said that due to an ongoing case, it could not be investigated, it could not be downloaded to the research commission, but another case -- we've just been discussing another motion on an ongoing case -- a case that is being carried out. So there's a problem with the law here. There's already a problem with the law in general in this country. According to a person, the law is being enforced, according to the approach, whichever party group gave its research motion is being implemented according to it. This is a serious problem. And we'd like to remind you of that one more time here. Congressmans, the murder of Hrant Dink is indeed an important case in Turkey to tolerate differences in particular because this case is actually over. It is said that the AKP MPs, in particular the Prime Minister, have expressed that the process is not over, the process will continue. The process has been completed. What was revealed in the process? In the process, the government was actually cleared. Just now, Mr. Muammar Guler has made a statement here. There's probably a need for those explanations. If he really is sincere, we would like to say that the AKP's government has brought a motion to investigate these events itself, and that we, the Peace and Democracy Party, will support this motion, because one of the names that Hrant Dink's friends in particular have said during this case is Mr. Muamer Güler, and it is Cemil Cicek, who is also the AKP government. There are serious accusations about this. If the AKP is genuinely sincere about this, they're all rejected and we're not getting any results as we submit a research motion. But we also want to make it clear once again that unless Turkey faces its past, it can't really reach democracy. Whether it's the Armenian issue or the Kurdish issue or the Dersim massacre, Turkey is still a country where massacres are remembered, and Turkey is not able to face massacres, but dare not to face them. As long as he doesn't have the courage to face it, there's no real possibility of equality, freedom, brotherhood in this country. Now, the AKP MPs say that freedom or security will be security so that there will be freedom. Where there's no freedom, there's no security. If you reverse the equation, no problem will solve any problem. The wrong equation leads to the wrong results. That's exactly what this Armenian thing is about. Now, especially a few days ago, there was a bill passed in France, and we were all apocalypse, and there were reprimands offered in this Parliament, but no one, what happened here? What happened in 1915? How can we get out of this? How can we face our past? What do we have to do to face it? What is Parliament's role? He did not ask any questions. At that point, an argument was carried out over the shamefulness of what France had done. Congressmans, I'd like to read to you now a document shared by the public with a few signatures. Arat Dink, Garo Paylan, Hayko Baghdad, Markar Esayan, Sibil Çeman, Tamara Nalcı, Tatyos Baby shared something with the public before they were discussed in this law of denial in France. I don't know how much this has gotten your attention, but I'd like to share it one more time. This bill wasn't passed when it was published. The title "Turkish Rights of Denial" has been titled. In France, the bill to restrict freedom of expression from denial of genocide is under law. It's a paradise of freedom, our country is mobilising again. It was wrong of the Parliaments to make decisions on historical events. If it's wrong for parliaments to decide historical events, does that mean there's nothing we can expect from the TBM about the Armenian genocide? If politics is wrong to decide on historical events, why did the word about my class excite us? But this time in France, the bill is more than just recognizing genocide, a bill to punish the denial of genocide. As such, Turkey had the chance to emulate its deniable mentality and unfair position with a thinly justified cover. Clearly, we agree that the denial of genocide should not be punished. So, do we think denial isn't morally a crime, too? Is it not, in the end, Turkey's right to deny genocide? Isn't that the rest of the comfort of using the right that lasts for 90 or six years? If denial is not a crime, what crime has Turkey been committing all these years? Is it really the same thing that 9 Turks, including Hrant Dink and Ragıp Zarakolu, were defending in France in 2006 and what Turkey is defending today? Does Turkey still have the face to use the words that Hrant Dink had in his favor? Is it the same caliber for Turkish Armenians to choose not to use the word "Hrant Dink" or to use the word "symracism" today? What is Turkey's true word? His denial policy committed many crimes after 1915, when he gave birth to evil. Hrant prepared the climate for Dink's murder. Denial can replicate violence to the extent that it re-enacts the trauma to the victims of genocide, and in this case, it's a crime. A speech of freedom of expression that feeds on denial reeks of riya. Can't you smell it? The thinnest branch of freedom of expression held by Turkey is not capable of carrying its cumbersomeness. Yeah, we should take the argument from the third mouths and move it to the land where it belongs. This may be the most justified reason to oppose the bill in question. So leave France. France was doing a terrible thing, she didn't mean any good... What, though, is Turkey planning to do? I think this signature text should be discussed here.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0139par0522	Are you with the Armenians or with the Republic of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0523	Yes, we are with the Armenian people, we are with the people of Turkey, we are with the Kurdish people. We...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0139par0525	Are you with that bill, or are you with the Republic of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0526	So this argument of yours is wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0139par0527	You're talking about the bill...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0528	We're with the Armenian people now, we're with Hrant, we're all Hrant, we're all Armenian. We're all Armenians. Now...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0140par0530	You're being racist, when you're talking here. You're a scalper.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0531	If anyone's racist, it's obvious. The AKP has clearly left no dust on racism and fascism. It's the AKP government that makes this flag the best wave right now. It's clear that they have more approaches, practices than even German fascism. Now, lawmakers, if we're going to solve the Armenian issue, this Parliament is going to have to argue about it and move it to its own territory, as stated here, where it is happening here. As long as this doesn't move, Hrant Dink's murder is a forensic case. 14. Even Rustem Eryılmaz, the chief of the High Criminal Court, says in his own statement that he couldn't fit into my conscience -- I mean, my conscience -- was making this decision. What made this decision? Let there not be this attitude of denial earlier, but the other approach in Turkey, which still sees Armenians, Kurds, Lazler, Çerces as enemies, is the result of the other visionary approach.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0141par0534	He sees a citizen of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0535	So let's say that when you take an approach here, you're on your side with the Armenians or you're on your side with the Kurds. Is that the approach? Hrant Dink was just a citizen of the Republic of Turkey. He made that very clear, but you didn't understand, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0141par0536	We understand very well.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0537	If you could understand, you wouldn't be fighting here right now, questioning the mentality that killed Hrant Dink, so that the new Hrant Dinkler wouldn't die.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0141par0538	You're talking about Hrant Dink, the Armenian bill that was adopted in France...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0138par0539	Now, you're not gonna get away with this by picking on me. We think that this research proposal is incomplete because it needs to be investigated, but even though it's important that only the TİB records be investigated. We'll vote yes for that. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0142par0542	Mr. President, the speaker has accused the AK PARTY of fascistism. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0143par0543	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0142par0546	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have seen the speech made by the Turkish National Assembly MP speaking on behalf of Turkey's Turkish nation at the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0144par0548	We're always watching you with an example, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0142par0549	To be honest, in this stand, I have seen and condemned the 1915 events of a politician for the sake of politics by the French Parliament to embrace here allegations of the Armenian genocide that should be left to historians. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You will serve in the Parliament of the Republic of Turkey, and you will be unaware of the issue of the 1915 events, of a matter that should be left to historians, of which there is no history, of defending an opinion that is contrary to the freedom of opinion made by the French Parliament. If you are the children of this nation, if you live in this geography, you must defend the rights and interests of this country. You do not have the right to support the activities of France's four terrorist groups' supporters, the protection of the marauders by France, the deployment of the marauders there, and the opportunities for them (Applause from the AK PARTI desks). The marauders will go, the representatives of the terrorist organization will be protected, protected by France, will operate to stir Turkey, to divide Turkey, where Sarkozy will protect them, to protect them, and you will confirm for them an arrangement that reflects the history of a great nation here. That's treason. In this country, you will be elected according to the laws of this country, you will come, you will act as MP of the Republic of Turkey, and you will support the French Parliament, which has accepted a claim against this country about a lie. First, you have to digest the fact that you are a citizen of this country. You can talk about freedom of thought and expression. Your friends, who served ten years in prison today for using Kurdish testimony from this platform or other places in 1994, became lawmakers today. In Turkey, you need to think carefully about where freedom comes from. We were chosen by the will of the people, not by your grace. We've been chosen by the people's votes, you can't offer them as a blessing, Mr. Elitaş. While you were being tried as a member of a terrorist organization, you came to the point of becoming a congressman today. So, when everyone's talking from this stand, they've sworn to defend the interests of this nation, it's imperative that we stick to that oath and be loyal to this nation. I salute you all. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0145par0559	One second, one at a time... one minute. Mr. Şandir, I will promise you and Mr. Halaçoglu, but first let me listen to Mr. Tuncel. By twisting what I said, Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0146par0563	What twist... I want to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0145par0565	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0147par0566	He was looking at us, and I want a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0145par0567	Now, look, we can't end this. He said, Mr. Tuncel, that what I said was not as Mr. Elitas put it, but as a twist, so I will speak according to him.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0147par0568	Mr. President, as far as we're concerned, I want a word.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0145par0569	Now, look, anyway, I'm walking around in the bush right now, so please don't come at me.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0147par0570	I'm not coming, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0145par0571	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0148par0574	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, I regret and condemn the AKP MP's approach. I didn't mean anything by the law that was developing here in the French Parliament.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0149par0576	You did...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0150par0577	Then you don't know what you're saying. You don't understand what's written, you don't understand what's written...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0149par0578	Bring in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0579	I'm telling you, have him bring in the transcripts. Just before I passed through this parliament, I read a letter from a group including Arat Dink, saying, "What is the Turkish Parliament doing?" If you're looking for a friend, a friend of Sarkozy's, I think the Prime Minister is a better friend. (Applause from BDP rows) We have nothing to do with Sarkozy, we have nothing to do with it, but what I want to say is that if we leave it to historians, then we'll do it. On these platforms, in this country, to face our own past, we have to solve this problem because we have Armenian friends, friends, comrades who live in this country.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0149par0581	Face yourselves!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0582	If we cannot banish the rest of the Armenians, then we must establish a demand for equality and freedom in this country. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] That letter was shared with the public. You'll agree, you won't agree, but I care about a question there: What will Turkey's National Assembly do about the problems of Armenian citizens? What did Hrant Dink say? We, yes, have eyes on the land of this country, but not to go away, but to be buried at the bottom of it. How many more Hrant Dinks can he be buried in? We have to conduct this struggle here to make this mentality go away. If you're really talking about the citizenship of the Republic of Turkey, if you love Turkey, then we're all brothers. We have to get out of the literature and rebuild the brotherhood law.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0152par0586	Drop the guns, drop the guns!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0587	We are all brothers, but we are superior. The approach will not solve the problem in this country.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0152par0588	You will lay down your weapons, stop bullying Kurds. You're oppressing Kurds!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0589	Look, in this country, I'll tell you this: if there's a problem here -- you're bringing it to the Kurdish problem -- we've expressed on this stand 10 times that the Kurdish problem is not a terrorist problem, you're describing another one. If there was a problem with terrorism, it would have been solved by now. There are opportunities that have never been used in the fight against terrorism. Now, that means this problem is another problem, this problem is the Kurdish problem. Turkey is not possible to democratize without solving this problem.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0152par0590	We'll get the Kurds out of the PKK.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0591	The other thing is, it's not your grace that we're sitting here.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0152par0592	We will free the Kurds from the persecution of the PKK. We will free the Kurds from the persecution of PKK.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0593	Yes, we stayed in prison about a Kurdish word. It's not your grace, we're here because of the will of our people, and we're not leaving unless our people want us to. We know, you call us terrorists every day, and you can't stomach us sitting here, but you have to respect the will of the people.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0152par0595	You will respect the values of the Turkish nation!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0596	We'll be here every day, we'll be here out of spite, we'll stand up to you. We will democratize this country, first we will democratize Ankara, Turkey's Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0153par0598	You'll condemn violence!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0599	Shut up! What is it? Shut up!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0154par0600	Mr. Tuncel, please...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0153par0601	You'll condemn violence!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0602	You've been harassing me all morning, you idiot!
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0155par0604	Mr. President, take it back.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0156par0605	Mr. Tuncel, take it back.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0151par0606	I take it back. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0156par0607	Okay, he took it back.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0157par0608	Let him take it back.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0156par0609	Now, do you want it to happen again then?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0157par0610	Take it back...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0156par0611	Well, shall I repeat it and tell you what you got back?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0157par0613	Let him take it back himself.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0156par0614	He said it, he took it back, all right. Mr. Chancer, you have one minute.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0158par0617	Mr. President, thank you. A speech about Armenian genocide is not allowed under the roof of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The Turkish nation has not declared genocide in Turkey's history, even though it has received a second promise. I accept this with regret and declare to the world as the National Movement Party Group: there is no genocide in the history of the Turkish nation, and the Turkish nation has never committed genocide against any nation. I'm saying that everyone here who's a member of parliament has the responsibility of human beings to shout out this truth. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0159par0621	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0160par0623	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, sir, if you take into account Hrant Dink's last speech on French TV 5, which he said, you can also follow from the Internet: the French and the British are the ones who should be apologizing to us, because they were the ones who used the Armenians. As a result, he was threatened and asked not to speak because he said the same thing in Armenia. I'm the one who really wants to find out who killed Hrant. But I'll tell you this. If he wants to face history, he just said, let's have a meeting here. Let's have a meeting here.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0161par0626	We're in, and we want to face it.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0160par0627	Oh, well, come, gladly, let's explain them one by one, with documents, American documents, British documents, French documents, Turkish documents, see who killed them.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0162par0632	The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Idris Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0163par0635	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to open a parliamentary investigation on whether or not TİB's responsibilities have been carried out by the Republican People's Party, claiming that the Telecommunication Communication Presidency has caused the trial to extend by not sending information and documents to the court that could open the mystery of Hrant Dink's murder. I salute your high council. Dear MPs, it is not possible for us to participate in the Republican People's Party's demands for the opening of parliamentary research and the issues on which it has been declared. Because the main opposition party has been requested by TİB that four people have been caught on security cameras in front of the Agos newspaper on the day of the murder, who are often on the phone, who have been arrested, who have been asked by their intermediaries to step forward and to send their phone numbers, but have not been met and are denied by TİB. These demands are highly inappropriate and do not reflect the truth because the procedures and principles for the detection, listening, monitoring and recording of signal information through telecommunications are set up with 10/11/2005 dates and regulations 25989. The detection of communication refers to the search, search, location information and identification of communication tools that communicate without interfering with the content of communication. According to the description, the detection of communication requires that you do not interfere with the content of communication. In Article 20 of our Constitution, it has arranged the privacy of private life, and in Article 22 there is freedom of communication. The secrecy of communication is also essential, but the lawmaker may, in some cases, ask that the CMK determine general communication in the case of its conditions in accordance with Article 135. The CMK requires that communication be detected, listened, signal information evaluated and recorded in Article 12 of the regulation and that the identity, type of communication tool, or phone numbers, or communication connection can be identified by the code that allows the judge to identify the person who will be subjected to a measure of the decision. The type of caution, its scope and duration, its reasons for resorting to the measure are made clear. Decisions can be made for three months at the most. This period can be extended no more than three months in the same way. Court decisions must be carried out under Article 10 by Telecommunications Communications President. The issues I'm talking about are to inform your grand delegation of the technicality of the matter. The main opposition party's request for the opening of parliamentary research is completely unconstitutional and irregular. As such, the 138th article of the Constitution shall regulate the independence of the courts, and in the second joke, no body, authority, or person shall give orders to the courts and judges in the use of judicial authority; it shall not be sent to the general; it shall not be advised and spoken. Again, in his third joke, there is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly about a case that is being seen, nor can a meeting be made or any statement be made. Despite the Supreme Court's ruling, I would like to point out in particular that it is incompatible with the rule of law that all and all parties, regardless of the Supreme Court's first-degree court, should present an opinion on a case that is being held, and that it is incompatible with the rule of state of law and that it is an intervention in the judiciary, and that it is contrary to the Constitution. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been hearings in the case of the alleged murder of Hrant Dink. The original perpetrator is İstanbul 2. It has been decided in the High Criminal Court and has been held by the other defendants in İstanbul 14. The High Criminal Court ruled on 17/1/2012. Both files are still in trouble, and the Supreme Court is expected. The perpetrator of the incident, Ogun Samast, was arrested after the 19/1/2007 murder of Agos daily writer Hrant Dink. During his trial with the other defendants, the defendant, Ogun Samast Wasn't a minor, so his file was suspended, 14. Before the final hearing of the case against the other suspects seen in the High Criminal Court, on 17/1/2012, the prosecution declared the following in its argument: In addition to the bombing of a murder scene called McDonald Τs and other acts of pure nationalism being processed by young people whose feelings of nationalism are heightened, it has not stated that Turkey is not a safe country for all citizens of Armenian origin and foreigners, who are concerned with the maximum importance of the organisational hierarchy and the establishment of Erhan Tucson and Yasin Imagination, has not been targeted by the construction of an Ergenekon terrorist cell operating in Tripoli, and by the actions of the defendants, by the actions of the accused, has not been a safe country for everyone. However, despite this prosecution's debate, the court, as you all know, has issued certain sentences against the defendants, the case is in the process of appeal. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as mentioned in our case, there is no neglect of the TİB. Because TİB is responsible for implementing court decisions. Not just the TİB, but the whole administration has to carry out their judgment. Otherwise, they may be subject to legal action for failing to pass judgment. In light of the information we have requested from the press and from the TİB (TİB), the court has requested that the information be sent first and the identification of bases and communications be sent to court on April 1, 2010. The court has requested that all calls from cell towers regarding the crime scene be detected on June 3, 2010, except for the information sent out. This request has been made clear that the TİB presidency has been contested on grounds that it is not in accordance with the legislation, as well as on grounds the Court of Law and Punishment, 15/11/2011, and 2011/140 main 2011/222 verdicts have been issued, so it is clear that the freedoms of private lives and communication of others should not be sacrificed in order to reach the perpetrator of a crime that has been committed. With no admission from the High Criminal Court, all documents requested from the TİB are 14. Sent to the High Criminal Court. 14. The High Criminal Court specifically requested one issue from the TİB (TİB) within January. So all of the talks that have been held during this period have been edited into archive records, delivered to the TİB, and TİB has announced to the court that they will do so, and the court has ruled it out. Thus, the allegations that five years have passed here by the Republican People's Party that the TİB records will be erased and that the perpetrators of this event will not be found are completely unwarranted and false. Because TİB is responsible for concealing evidence of an ongoing case, and this is not a five-year statute of limitations. Unfortunately, the resources they feed are wrong. The deadline for sending these documents is limited only if they are requested by the statute of limitations. Other than that, there are no restrictions. On this occasion, we are members of a government that has always maintained our faith in the supreme judgment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I hope that this case, which is about to happen, will end in a way that will comfort our nation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0651	Yeah, you yell at me when the opposition MPs stay like this, so yours can stay, too. See? I submit to you the Republican People's Party Group's proposal according to the 19th Amendment: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. Among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan, Professor Ahmet Yesevi, we will resume discussions between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Historical Republic of Turkey on October 22, 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where we are left to discuss the adoption of the Protocol on the implementation of the Turkish-Kazak University of Turkey. Commission? Here. Government? Here. Previously on the entire bill, talks were completed on behalf of the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan is now in charge.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0165par0663	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0664	No? Okay. First word on the subject...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0166par0666	No one's talking.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0667	He's not talking either?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0167par0668	No one's talking, Mr. President. If they talk, we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0669	Okay. I get it, I get it. Deal with each other first. Yes, there's no demand for words. Mr. Hardness, why were you in the system?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0168par0672	I'd like to make a brief statement.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0169par0673	He's given up, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0674	Okay, that's different. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. (x) 32 S. The Numbered Basmaz 03/01/2012 was added to its 46th Union Charter.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0170par0679	DELIVERED TO CONTINUE THE CONTINUATION OF THE ACCIDENT UNIVERSITY OF THE AZAK UNIVERSITY IN ACTIVITY TO CONTINUE TO AGREATION OF ACTIVITY IN OCTIVATION OF THE OCTION OF AHMET COMPLICATION - AGREATION OF ACTION OF THE ARCTION OF ACTIONS 2009 MADDE 1- (1) was approved between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 22, 2009, with the approval of the Protocol on bringing changes to Dair Agreement, which was signed in İstanbul on December 23, 2010, between the Government of the Turkish Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of Kazakhstan, Professor Ahmet Yesevi International Türk-Kazak University of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0681	Mr. Chancer, is there a speaker for the group?
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0171par0682	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0164par0683	No one wants to talk about matter. No questions, no answers. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kazakhstan, Hodja Ahmet Yesevi International Türk-Kazak University operates under the Dair Agreement, October 22, 2009 between the Government of the historic Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Hodja Ahmet Yesevi International Türk-Kazak University, under a clear vote on the ratification of the Protocol on the implementation of the Charter: ▪ Number of votes used : 253 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. Mr. Toughness, here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0172par0709	Mr. President, thank you. The foundation of false Armenian claims is the project to carry out the great Armenia in the territory of Asia Minor, which extends all the way to Mersin. The Armenians have seen 1914 as a historic moment and opportunity that should not be missed because on the territory of Asia Minor, the Ottoman state, which they call the sick man, will be erased from the history scene, and an Armenian state will be established. In this context, the Armenians fought with the Russian army against the Ottoman army. In their own words, they have been a party in this war, a small ally against the Ottoman State. The number of Armenians fighting in the Russian army is approximately 300. In this war, the Armenians have a habit of adding a zero to all losses of 150, but in Armenians, they have the habit of adding a zero to the numbers. At this time in the Western press...
tbmm-2012-01-25sit02spe0173par0714	[[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We will begin negotiations with Ankara MP Sinan Aydın Aygün, who is in the 2nd place of the Czech Law Amendment bill and Ankara MP Sinan Aydın Aygün, and Mersin MP Ali Riza Özturk, who has offered to make changes in Czech Law number 5941 and the Justice Commission Report. [[Continue]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin the talks of İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubbat, who is ranked in the 3rd place, Mehmet Doğan Kubbat, who has been appointed to make changes to the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures, and the Commission for Human Rights and Justice Commission reports on the execution of the number 5275. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Thursday (January 26th 2012), the decision of the groups to discuss other tasks from the commissions and the bill and proposals following the understanding that the commission could not be found is at 13 p.m., according to the decision taken Thursday (January 26, 2012). I hope we're all meeting together at 00, and I'm closing the merger.
