tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 17th union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Manisa MP Hasan Ören, who wants to talk about the problems of the grape producers and the agricultural sector. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have made a promise to address the problems of the farmers in Manisa, where the most fertile lands in the world are. Really, when we go to the villages in this fertile land, we hear a great complaint. Manisa is one of the cities in Turkey that contributes the most to agriculture exports, but the Manisa farmer is not getting what he wants from today's power. The Akhisar side has performed olive-stitching near 12 million, but unfortunately the Justice and Development Party has not prepared the conditions for competing with the oil-related outside market. Spain, at the bottom, is one of the countries that manages to sell oil in exports of 1 kilogram of olive oil -- a $3.15 bonus given by the Spanish government -- to plant an olive tree for $1.50, and to sell oil to an industrialist for $1.65. If we want to compete, we have to apply this incentive. We will either sell oil to the world, or we will feed a wrestler in our homes, or we will send him to Edirne, and they will wrestle in Charpınar, and we will consume oil there; for we have consumed oil, and we prefer the first one as the Republican People's Party. The second issue, friends, concerns 100,000 families in Manisa. Raisins have become the manufacturer's nightmare every year. The raisins have no country in the world that can compete with us because there is no country in the world that produces raisins as much as Turkey, and its price is a product set by Turkey. It begins on August 15th, and the harvest ends on September 15th. Every year, the same theater is performed in the same scene. By 15 August, without grapes, the price of grapes is high; after grapes are produced and harvested, the price of grapes is lowered. In June, the price of grapes is $4.20, the price of raisins. In any case, our AKP trader friends, our AKP industrial friends, have reduced this $4.20 grape to $2.70 in an instant, $2.80. I'm calling the Manisa MPs from here: don't attend the openings of the sub-governmental and mayoral office, come inside the public for a bit. And I'll give you a name here, Mr. Muzaffer Citizen, we've also bought for the cameras, and you said, "If there are any grapes under $3,500, come to me, I'll buy them." Now, in Manisa, 100 thousand families' grapes are sold between $2.70 and $2.80. What grapes? Two months ago, you sell the grapes for $4.20. Now you can't get inside the village. What you do is you go to hospital openings, you go to mayor's openings, you're at the mayor's cocktails. Go to the village. Now, I think you've got one more suggestion, and I'd like to remind you of that, too. And let him also hear of the vine makers of Turgutlu, and of Salihli, and of Ahmetli, and of Alaşehir, and of Sarıgöl. When we didn't hold these 3.5 scissors, our Congressman said: "Don't drink tea with sugar, eat grapes with tea." When I told you just now, we have to raise wrestlers at the Croppinar. " Mr Muzaffer Citizen said: "If we consume too much, our producer will be happy when the price goes up, when the price goes up." Therefore remove the sugar, and eat grapes with the tea. But he is not the first to do what he says. The farmer complains, the farmer's inputs are too high, and the farmer can't handle it with the diesel he bought for $4,000. If you really want to hear about the problems with the farmer, not the problems with the Red Jack, but the problems with the Akhhisar of Manisa, Salihli, Turgutlu, Alaşehir. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You need to go down there and see how this farmer is today. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0004par0025	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0003par0026	Here you go, Citizen.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0005par0027	He's gonna take all the grapes?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0006par0028	Yeah, it's on the record. It's on the record, and there's a CD.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0005par0029	He promised to take the grapes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0007par0030	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has been taunting me with my name, so I demand word.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0008par0031	I'll give you two minutes, Mr. Citizen, for bullying. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Just don't give me any more trouble, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0007par0036	Mr. President, our esteemed MPs, Mr. Speaker, before me, used my name to pick on me. We are not a power in Manisa, as did those before us, that cannot be seen among the people. We're always among the people, we're with the villagers, we're with our nation. The most important difference between us, before us, is that we don't look at people from ivory towers.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0009par0038	Tell me if you'll take the grapes. You promised.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0007par0039	We live among people. I'm a family that produces grapes and also has ties.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0010par0040	Are you going to take it or not? Did you or didn't you?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0007par0041	Now, Mr. Speaker knowing the price of the grape or the price of earlier. Currently, the number 9 grape is $3.100, and the number 10 grape finds a buyer for $3.250. Now, it's just, we're the price of grapes... yes, the grape bread project is my project, and it's my project to eat grapes as well as tea. This increases people's eating of grapes. The average Turkish person consumes 250 grams of grapes, while the UK consumes 1.8 kilos of grapes. Yes, the consumption of grapes of Turkish people is necessary.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0011par0043	No money, money! What will she consume grapes with?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0007par0044	But we're not just supporting him. Here we have forty-six pond projects in our Manisa, in order to increase the watery agriculture of our Manisa. If we can get this project to work, we'll be able to get both the grape and the cherry and the strawberry and the agricultural product of Manisa.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0012par0045	Are you going to buy the grapes or not at $3.5?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0011par0046	Will you take the grapes?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0007par0047	You just mentioned olives, and the olives will be worth more. My projects on these...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0012par0048	Are you going to take it or not? Did you or didn't you?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0011par0049	Will you stand by your word?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0012par0050	Did you say that or not?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0013par0051	Now, we are Manisa's -- Manisa is one of the cities that will be a great city in the next election, which is the 7th place in this province of exports -- which is one of our most important products. As one of our most important producers, I declare that we are always with the grape, the grape, the exporter, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0012par0053	Do you want the Manisa manufacturer to come to you? Will you buy the grapes for $3.5?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0014par0054	Thank you. The second word off-the-book belongs to Konya MP Mustafa Baloglu, who wants to speak on behalf of World Urbanism Day.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0015par0059	Mr. President, I don't know how urbanism goes after the grape debate, but I have taken an off-the-book word for myself on World Urbanity Day, and I salute your delegation. Cities are indicators of the level of development of societies. Our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, established to do the work needed for people to live in better environments and cities, has set out with a vision of habitable environments and brand cities, and has traveled great distances. Currently, he continues to work for future generations to live happily and peacefully in healthy and modern cities with cultural and historical values. Today, many cities, especially small and medium - scale cities, are no longer likely to adapt to the pace of the world, which has changed by its own means and by an introverted approach. Only its resources and resources are not enough to reach the level of development that cities dream of. In recent years, the principle of mutual addiction, which dominates the world, is hidden in regional solidarity and sharing policies, as the cities share the same geography, while bringing forth co-operation and alliances. Business units of bordered cities that share similar natural resources and cultural elements, through similar historical processes, are able to stimulate the potential of the region in which they are located, to accelerate urban and regional development. Therefore, regional and local resources must be transformed into opportunities. Dear lawmakers, we've always developed strategies in urbanism on the city scale. Today, we have to develop strategies on the area scale. Economic resilience, urban quality, social integrity, historical and cultural protection, economic and cultural clustering, and integrated management of cultural heritage must surely be considered. The EC PARTY ruling has taken significant steps in environmental and urbanism. The decision was made to bring down buildings at risk of earthquakes and to build secure and quality structures in their place, and their first steps were taken under the leadership of our Prime Minister. From every part of our country, all the deeds are now in place of real estate. In 81 counties, 122 air quality monitoring stations have been established, and the entire country has been able to measure air quality on its sath. In 90% of our provinces, environmental order plans have been completed. The number of regular waste storage facilities in our country has increased from 15 to 59 in ten years. The benefits of technology have also been used in environment and urbanism, and environmental permits and licenses have become available in electronics through a single permit application. Our municipalities' work for urbanism has also increased. In 2003, only 38 per cent of the municipality's population was desalinated, while in 2012 it increased to 72 per cent. Our municipalities were also given about 730 garbage pickup vehicles by our ministry to be used in solid waste collection services. The role of local governments in urbanism is quite large. For this reason, the actions that local governments are responsible for in urbanism have been collected under 11 different targets by our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism; these are: to ensure a sustainable spatial development in settlements. Creating a sustainable urban transportation system. Integrating urban infrastructure plans, projects and investments with spatial plans. In urbanization, it's about social donuts and the balanced distribution of services. An urban renovation and transformation integrated in social, cultural and economic dimensions. Disguise and reduce the risk of settlement. To protect and improve Kent's identity. Creating an environment of environmentally sensitive life in cities. Increase social solidarity, integration and tolerance in cities. Taking the necessary precautions for needy and disadvantaged groups to benefit from urban services. To develop urban culture, urban awareness and sense of belonging, and to create awareness of urban rights. We believe that in light of these studies, our country is habitable and brand cities will reach its destination as soon as possible. Mr. President, all these innovations and investments in the area of urbanism are a clear indicator of our value to urbanism. Everyone who lives in all our provinces deserves to live a modern city life. History, the preservation and development of nature and culture is a sacred duty to all of us living in cities. We, as well as the local authorities, must each take care of our cities. In that understanding, I congratulate you on the Day of World Urbanism on November 8th, inviting everyone to join hands to live in more peaceful, happy, healthy blocks. I salute your committee.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0016par0072	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement is from Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri, who wants to talk about the destruction of national values.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0017par0076	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, first of all, we need to realize that a country is being pulled from beneath our feet by grapes and apricots. For mental activity, you need to know that there is no mechanism to save a society that stops its stomach activity. Recently, the national and human values of the Turkish nation have been severely damaged. While the Turkish nation's values of belonging, unity and unity are humiliated, divisive, destructive, separatist, and other values are blessed. The government's actions, which are controversial and disruptive, continue without slowing down. The Turkish Youth of Ataturk, theban of the republic, has been launched into discussion in the ten-year AKP ruling. There has been a review of the oath, which began with Turkkum, my truth, my hard work. "Happy is he who says he is a Turk. " The national holidays have been transformed into a means of camping with new regulations. During the day of salvation celebration, the issue of pulling the flag was transformed into a crisis. Today, the Ministry of Education, which has a nationalized concept, has been transformed into the ministry of national destruction. Instead of dealing with the enormous problems of education, the ministry has become dealing with national values. While preparing textbooks, the National Culture, the Turkish nation, the family, the country, are no longer the basis of the principles at the beginning of the Constitution. The Ministry of National Education has taken the role of a ministry that is closed to Turkish national values, open to masonic and cosmopolitan values. In the process of alienating and cosmopoliticizing the nation, Arif Nihat has even received the poem of Asia. The Ministry can't even tolerate the poetry of the flag. Attempts to remove the Turkish nation's concept from the Constitution are going on as long as possible. Once again, I remind those who attempt to remove the concept of Turkish people from the Constitution: you cannot remove the concept of Turkish people from the Constitution without removing them from Anatolia. Seven duvets could not afford to expel the Turkish nation from Anatolia, nor would local collaborators as alienated as you. Masonic focals have no limits on flag hostility, anti-seasonism, Ataturk allergy, Turkish phobia. Gauntlet, deception, and treason have entered arm-in- arm, positioning against national values. Once again, the Turkish nation has not found its language, its religion, its flag, its nation, its state in the market, and it will not negotiate. Because of the 10th anniversary of the declaration of Republic Day, I would like to remind you once again that Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's message for national values and Turkishness, which is as current as today, is from this bench, which he entrusted us with the 74th anniversary of his eternal ideology in these days: Turkish Nation! Today is the greatest holiday our republic has ever completed in its 10th year. Happy birthday! As a member of the great Turkish nation, I am now in the deepest joy and excitement of this blessed day. My fellow citizens! We've done a lot and a lot of great things in a short time. The largest of these jobs is the Republic of Turkey, whose basis is Turkish heroism and high Turkish culture. We owe it to the Turkish nation and its precious army to walk decisively together. But we can never see enough of what we're doing. Because we're more bound and determined to do bigger things. We will raise our home to the level of the world's greatest and most civilized countries. We will make our nation the most prosperous, means and resources. We're going to raise our national culture to the level of murky civilization. For this, we think the time scale should be considered by the speed and the mindset of our century, not by the relaxing mentality of the centuries that have passed. In spite of the time we've had, we'll work harder. In less time, we'll do bigger things. I have no doubt we'll be successful in this too. Because the Turkish nation's character is high, the Turkish nation is hardworking; the Turkish nation is intelligent. Because the Turkish nation knew how to overcome challenges with national unity and unity. And because, on the way of the Turkish nation's march and civilization, the torch he holds in his hand and in his head is precise knowledge. And I have to make it very clear that the historical quality of the Turkish nation, a high society of people, is to love and rise in fine arts. That's why it's our intention to develop our nation's high character, tireless hard work, his mind, his knowledge, his love for fine arts, and his sense of national unity and all kinds of means and measures. This country, which is so good for the Turkish nation, will allow it to do its own civilized duty, in all humanity, in the pursuit of true peace. Today, I say with the same faith and certainty that the nation of Turkey, which is walking in full unity, will soon and once again recognize the great nation, the entire civilized world. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] I have no doubt that the great civilized quality and great civil ability of Turkicism, forgotten, will rise as a new sun from the high civilization horizon of its horse, with its next revelation. Turkish nation! With greater honors, this great nation's holiday, every decade that flows into eternity.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0018par0093	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0017par0094	I sincerely wish you a celebration of happiness, peace and prosperity. Blessed is the one who says, "Happy is the Turk!" I say God bless you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Societys are expected to have an effective educational system that can respond to both economic and social demands, with long-term manpower planning determined by the need analysis. Because the education system acts as a change of behavior by putting students through a formal process at an early age. The behavior given during the education-school process must also be a natural result of the effect of education, showing itself in every aspect of life. All these processes are related to the quality of the educational system. In addition to numerous externalities such as "crime rates fall in society, moral and ethical values rise in society, the number of healthy happy families increases, solidarity is seen in every layer, communication and development increases," our economy improves by increasing the quality of human strength, social prosperity, development. Qualification is that learned dry information can be used in life by turning into behavior, not stored in the brain. However, for many years the Turkish education system has not solved the quality problem. While our people have high confidence in the school, in the teacher, in the schools, they are not happy with the education that the teachers give them. The quality of the educational system today is extremely low, and the result is a crisis of trust with the shareholders of education. It takes place every year in the development plans and annual programmes of the state, where categorical differences occur in regions, provinces, districts, schools, branches, genders. This fact was expressed by a chairman of the Education Discipline Board who served during the AKP Governments, who said, "There are 85 times the difference between our schools and even our branches." A qualitative decline in the education system can be seen in the first degree of our students, even in the end of higher education and grad school processes. When some data is examined in our educational system, the scale of the quality crisis in the system will be clear. The main goal of the students is to measure how much basic skills can be gained in their adulthood, including the PİSA tests of OECD member states, which included Turkey's 29 member states in all tests in 2006, and 32 of the 34 member states in 2009 PİSA. He's in line. 25% of students lack their reading skills, 42% lack their basic mathematical skills. The 2011 Level Determination Exams are another qualitative indicator. 8. Classes received 1,054,508 students in the SBS exams, 475 points and more than 1,000ths (12,900 students) with a good science and a low grade in order to get into the Anatolian upper secondary schools. This number was included at the same rate in the previous year (12,727 students). It is also seen that the situation is much more severe when the test averages are examined. From 23 Turkish questions, our students have been able to do 5,2 clearly from 10, 20 mathematics questions, 3,1; 71 from 20 Science questions; 20 Social Studies from 9.3 and 17 English questions. According to the 2011 YGS results, 38269 candidates received zero points. These examples are of different sizes in every test conducted by the Ministry of National Education and the OSD. The increasing number of courses for KPS exams is also a quality of university education. The quality problem is a pedagogic cycle that leads to the inequality of opportunity in education. Turkey's largest wealth and capital will be the enhanced manpower. Turkey is unable to achieve its goals with problems that could lead to a low quality education system. The Constitution of the Turkish Education System is 98, 104, to be investigated in all dimensions of the problem of its quality and to take the necessary measures. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened. [[Sinop]] [[İstanbul]] 3) Aydın Agha Ayaydın (Istanbul) [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] [[Amasya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Army]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Manisa]] [[Bolu]] [[Aydın]] 13) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Scholarship]] 16) Osman Oktay Sorik [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] 25) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 28) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] [[İstanbul]] 30) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly According to population data based on the 2009 address, Turkey also has around 7,180 forests in total in the village of 21,207 in the forest next to the forest, 2,167 million in the forest, 4,897 million in the neighbouring forest village, with a total population of 7.064 million in the village, with 9.75% in the total population and 39.99% in the rural population. The infrastructure, health and education of forest villages is low and inadequate compared to other parts of society. As a result of the development of income shortages in rural and forest villages, education, communication and transport, it is not possible to stop a large number of migrations in the past 10-15 years, with economic policies still being implemented in our country. Due to the lack of rural development activities that have been considered especially a meaningful effort in the past 40 years for forest villages, migration has been unstoppable and the negative consequences of rapid urbanization have not been prevented. If modern-day Turkey has a problem with rapid and uncontrollable urbanization, it is necessary to consider economic and social contributions through forestry as well as other state assistance and investments to the rural population, among the factors preventing the growth of this problem. TC. The Constitution, 169. In Article 170, "Providing and Development of the Forests." In Article 171, the protection of the forest village. The article ensures the development of cooperativeism. Despite all these constitutional and legal measures and grounds, it's an irrefutable fact that the problems of rural development cooperatives -- including the forest peasant's and the central union of forestry co-ops -- have grown like an avalanche. The draft "Cooperative Strategy Document and Action Plan (2010-2014)," launched by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture and Villages, which is supposed to contribute positively to today's conditions and is expected to adapt co-operative practices to today's conditions, has not been implemented until now, with the participation of representatives of Turkey's National Union of Cooperatives and its affiliated Central Unions. Clearly, this document and its action plan are of great importance to our co-op. With changes in the Law of the Cooperatives 1163 and changes in Forest Law 6831, our forest peasant's vital problems are rapidly increasing. According to data from the Forest General Directorate in 2010, their annual income per household is $3,936. So it's less than $1,000 per person. Increased project loan opportunities for forest villagers and co-ops, Supporting co-op in forest villages and the importance of vocational training, "The training of forest workers at Forest Labor Training Centres, the certification, They're really dependent on forest resources, and they're directly interacting with these resources, and the deficientness of the OGM's existing policies, strategy and practices, and the need for development and development, The implementation of planned co-ordinated investments aimed at enforcing the potential development and employment of the forest villagers who live in these villages, who have been determined by undeveloped forest villages. Creating additional revenues for the villagers through the creation of the ability to harvest, evaluate, and market non-wood forest products by peasants, Due to rapid migration from rural areas, demographic changes in forest villages and the expected impacts on forest ecosystems today and in the future, The Constitution shall be 98, ÜBMM Charter 104, in order to determine the necessary efforts to develop, expand the forests of Turkey, and operate in accordance with national interests, so that the forest villager may be able to get a right share of the national income, provided it does not contradict social interests. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened. 19.12.2011 [[Sinop]] [[Erzincan]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Bedii Suheyl Batum [[Eskişehir]] 6) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Slap]] [[Army]] [[Denizli]] [[Malatya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tunceli]] [[40s.]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 19) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] 21) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The reasons why the Alekis were chosen as targets, the reasons why they were chosen as targets, in Turkey's 19-24 December 1978, were to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to investigate how many of our Alevi citizens had been harmed in the massacre and then had to emigrate. 19.12.2011 [[İstanbul]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] The Maras massacre took place on December 19th-24, 1978, one of the unexplained events of social history. In Kahramanmarash district on December 19, 1978, the attacks began with the bombing of the Flower Cinema until December 24th. It was later discovered that the bomb that was thrown into the cinema was a provocation. In Yörakselim neighborhood, where the Alevi were heavily seated, a village was bombed, while an Alevi grandfather who was found in the coffee shop was killed for two days without saying "pregnant." According to official data, 105 people were killed, 176 were injured, 210 homes and 70 businesses were destroyed. According to unofficial statements, the death toll is close to 500. After the massacre, most of the Alevi had to flee from the city, leaving their jobs, leaving their homes. Cases in martial law courts continued until 1991, where a total of 804 people, often described as right-wing and extreme-right-minded, have been prosecuted. 29 of the defendants were sentenced to death, seven were sentenced to life imprisonment, 321 were sentenced to 124 years in prison. Criminals were suspended due to the 1991 Anti-Terror Act and later released. However, behind the scenes of the massacre was not illuminated. The government must face the past and deal with the planned massacre of Alevi citizens. In order for confrontation to take place, parliament must carry out its work and policies by taking responsibility for it. As we investigate the massacres, not only must the results be revealed, but also the mentality that led to these massacres be investigated, the political background, and measures must be taken to ensure that these massacres never take place again. In order to ensure that, NGOs, academics, victims must be included in the commission. Therefore, in addition to the importance of investigating the perpetrators of the Maraş massacre under the roof of parliament, Turkey will have faced the hatred of Sunni-Alevi, as it did in the occasional fueled nationalism, Kurdish-Turkish hostility, or the Maraş massacre. In the world, governments have established Truth and Justice Commissions to face human crimes and massacres, and that is the kind of commission Turkey needs. But it requires a political will. Faced with the government's past, he must be convinced that such dark events will never happen again. Therefore, it must be based on the work of the research commission, as in the world examples, to work like a Commission of Truths, and the opening of all archives of the state, including military, must remove all obstacles to access to the truth. Therefore, we propose to establish a parliamentary research commission on who planned and carried out the Maraş massacre and how many of our citizens were harmed in the massacre and then had to emigrate, considering the election of the Alevis as a target. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. 07.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On November 2, 2012, the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Grand National Assembly on the basis of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, in order to address the loss of rights of citizens who were deprived of Defence Rights (1734 rows), and the dissolution of the talks on Wednesday 07,11,2012. Pervin Buldan, Iğdır MP who has asked for a group proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0020par0317	Thank you. Mr. President, we have submitted our motion to the establishment of a research commission in order to investigate the resolution of this issue, which is currently among the demands of prisoners on the fifty-seventh day of the hunger strike, as well as the loss of rights and victimhood of citizens who have been deprived of defence in the main language. Therefore, I would like to stress that the agenda of this motion and the establishment of a research commission are one of the demands of the hunger strike in Turkey today. Today's hunger strike on Turkey's 17th day in many prisons has now reached a critical stage. Today, our 707 friends have put their bodies to death, their bodies to starvation, and their right to defend these demands in the native language is to end both the right to live in the language and the isolation policy in the Imralı, and to begin negotiations. With these demands being taken into consideration, I believe that today's hunger strike will end, at least preventing coffins from coming out of prisons. We believe that political will should act quickly, that AKP, CHP, and mp will have to carry out its responsibilities as soon as possible. Mr. Bulent Arinc made the statement that it was important yesterday, and we want to express it today, but we also think that there should be an explanation as to what the government should do about it, what it should do about it, at least not step forward. After expressing my views, I'd like to make a definition of language. Language is usually a natural right for societies, individuals in private, to the right of citizenship. No authority can interfere with this right in an unfair way, which is arbitrary, illegal, and unfair. The linguistic difference is an element and the future of the world's cultural heritage. All languages spoken around the world are vital. The importance referred to in this context is not the facilitation of international communication using multi-use languages, but the concern of providing different languages. As a matter of fact, there are provisions for the protection of cultural rights in the third part of the Lausanne Agreement, the founding agreement of the Republic of Turkey. Some of these provisions are aimed at protecting non-Muslim minorities in Turkey, but their provisions also guarantee the rights of different cultures, including Kurds, who are not in the status of non-Muslim minorities. The fourth joke of the 39th Article of the Treaty of Lausanne shall not be imposed on any Turkish national to use any language he wishes in open meetings with religious, press, or all kinds of publications, both in private and trade relations. This joke gives all Turkish citizens the right to use any language they want, anywhere and any time. Those who are entitled to this joke are all citizens, and the practical response is non-English citizens. The fifth joke of the 39th Article of the Lausanne Treaty will be that the Turkish nationals, who speak a language other than Turkish, will be able to use their language verbally in the courts. This joke, unlike the rights of non-Turkish minorities, will allow all citizens of the Republic of Turkey to use their own language in court. Although the official language of the state is available, the definition of the official language is also pointed out that it should not interfere with the use of other languages. In fact, the meaning of their language in the text of matter is the mother tongue of the parties. No matter how well he understands the language of the trial, the language of the official language, or how well he speaks it, the language of the concerned can best express himself is the principal language. The purpose of this verdict is to ensure that the right to defend is carried out in the best possible manner during the trial. However, in court trials, requests for defence in the main language have been rejected on various grounds, and their right to defence has been deemed unlawful. If he insists on making a plea in another language, he will be considered using his right to remain silent. For some time now, the sentence has been seen in our courts in the form of a decision or a court order. In fact, some courts refrain from applying the same discount to the 2nd one of the two defendants who have been tried for the same crime, while applying a reduction of good behavior in the hearing because they have defended one of them in Turkish. So the law is created, the rights of the people are clearly condemned without any basis. It is another aspect of the job that the right to do so is done by law. In the main language, the right to defend is reflected in the hearing logs, such as the unknown language, the non-controversial language. In Turkey's geography, where 36 different languages are spoken, there is also evidence of how the person's most natural rights have been ignored. Courts clearly violate the Lausanne Agreement. These positions of the courts are not only in violation of Lauzan 39/5, but are also in violation of the Constitution's decree to block the right to defend the rights of the Constitution under Article 36/5, titled the freedom of the right to seek justice. While the right to defend the main language is a legal right, it has been ignored by the stance of political will and judiciary, while its use has been lifted to the illegal ground. In order not to compromise the use of this legal right at heart, we demand that this research commission be established as soon as possible by our motion to resolve it. Yesterday, there was a trial of lawyers from the Asr's Law Office again, and the trial of these fellow lawyers was postponed until January 3, 2013, and the rights of our friends to defend themselves again in their native language, and the trial was unfortunately postponed. With the change in the CMK, which Mr. Bulent Arinc has stated, the right to defend in the main language will be raised, but we are renegotiating our request for this matter to be immediately raised, to be debated in the General Assembly and to have legal opportunities, and we salute our friends on the hunger strike on the 50th day, and at least by showing the government the necessary will again, I respectfully salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0021par0329	Thank you. Ali Ihsan Yavuz, MP of the Peace and Democracy Party, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0022par0332	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group against the Council's motion to investigate the rights loss and victims of citizens who have been deprived of defence in the main language of the Peace and Democracy Party. I hereby salute the High Council. One of the reasons for those who are on hunger strike in prison is that they are denied the right to defend themselves in the main language. We see that the BDP Group has requested a parliamentary investigation into this matter. However, with the EC PARTI ruling, Turkey has begun its journey of full-blown democracy, taking consecutive steps at the point of basic rights and freedoms. The Justice and Development Party, founded on 14 August 2011, began its work and work with the fight against corruption, poverty and bans. Turkey has traveled a great deal of distances to Turkey, working day and night on these three issues. We are a country that is coveted in the sense that we have come to the point and that we are determined to walk towards the goals that he has promised in this sense, thank God. In particular, what is done in terms of the deepening and rooting of democracy is almost revolutionary. With the power of the EC PARTY, fundamental rights and freedoms have been greatly expanded. For example, rejection, denial and assimilation policies have been terminated. The EC PARTI is following a policy that protects the happiness, prosperity, rights and freedom of the people of the region with the awareness of the negativity caused by this problem in our society, which will not weaken Turkey's integrity and the prevention of terror that threatens the region with its unitary state structure, but will continue to address its permanence, respect, influence, and root of the problems of the entire community. The fact that differences are regarded as wealth is also among our basic policies. In addition, the State of Emergency has been terminated. On 19 July 1987, a temporary but forty-six-time extension of the state of emergency ended on November 30, 2002, just 12 days after the establishment of the EC PARTI government, as the first major move in the steps towards democratisation of the EC PARTY. The region thus breathes comfortably, escapes the bilateral management system, normalizes, and eases the daily life of a citizen. The legal struggle against torture has been strengthened. Turkey appeared to be a country condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for alleged torture and malfeasance prior to the EC PARTI rule, and for tortures that were not investigated or punished. Articles 243 and 245 of the Turkish Penal Code have been changed in order to prevent sentencing decisions on torture and abuse from being reduced to fines. In this framework, the definition of torture and abuse has been expanded, and their sentences have been increased, and they have been prevented from being reduced to compensation and money. Torture cases have been prevented from being timed out. Many torture cases in Turkey have fallen due to the statute of limitations, and responsible public officials have not been punished. Under the amendment, the rush and priority of cases has been ensured that cases will not be postponed for more than 30 days, and that cases will continue on a judicial holiday. Private courses have opened the way to teach different languages and dialects. As a sign of our country's cultural wealth, different languages and dialects had long been subject to complete denial and rejection policy. A course has been opened to teach different languages and dialects. The regulations and curriculum have been prepared. Radio and television broadcasts were allowed in different languages and dialects. The regulation for radio and television broadcasts in different languages and dialects that Turkish citizens used traditionally in their daily lives has been put into effect. The right to broadcast in different languages and dialects has been legally guaranteed. The ability to broadcast in different languages and dialects that our citizens use traditionally in their daily lives has been granted legal assurance through both public and private radio and television organizations. Thus, with special televisions, the legal barriers to the publication of TRT have been removed and the right to broadcast has been secured. It opened the way for everyone to give their child any name they wanted. It's 1993. A friend of mine couldn't name his child in Sakarya Akuşa. He's in elementary school, and he only solves it by making a case when it's written. Now that Musab brother is nineteen years old and continues to study law school by choosing law school because of this problem he faced that day. Turkey has come this far and has taken steps. Mr. President and valued lawmakers, if we go back to square one, it is clear that there is a need for a legal arrangement for defence rights in the native language. As it turns out, the AK PARTY has taken some steps before that. On September 30, 2012, the AK PARTY published a 63-point list in its 4th annual Grand Congress, as part of its 2023 political vision. Under the title of the national unity and brotherhood, we will not be a problem in the main language with a legal arrangement. We have made it clear that the solution to this issue is our will. Essentially, if the Article 202 of Penal Code 5271 does not speak Turkish enough to describe the terms of the accused and the victim, it is translated through the court-appointed interpreter and the main points of defence. However, some problems have arisen in implementing this issue, so the EC PARTI Authority, as our prime minister has stated many times, is determined to eliminate this issue from being a problem by adding a new joke to Article 202 of Penal Code 5271. The necessary work on this matter has already begun, so I again express my opinion that there is no need for a parliamentary investigation, and once again, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0023par0347	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal from Aytug Atcı, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0350	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of BDP's group proposal. I salute the lawmakers, who do not shout joys behind the dead people, who do not make fun of people who are lying to death, who still have bits of humanity in them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0025par0351	That's where they laugh, Deputy, that's how serious they are!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0352	When people are dying, when people are dying, no matter what their political views are, whether you accept it or not, it's impossible to understand what kind of mood it is to stand on the stand at the door of death and praise AKP policies, but my humanity prevents it. Now, lawmakers have had a few requests from our Kurdish citizens for the past few days. Our Kurdish citizens have some problems -- you may like it, you may not like it; you may accept it, you may object -- come talk about them. What do you think? You say, "No, let's not talk, let's not talk." Have you ever accepted a motion? No matter what the MPs want to talk about, you say, "No need." Again and again, let us place the violence of health upon the table, and behold, the dead shall be slain at the door, and the doctors shall be slain at the door. We said, "Your hair has not moved, and you have laughed at us. When a doctor was murdered, slaughtered, you came to your senses, you set up a commission. Now, do people have to die again to talk about these problems? Dear friends, wise people learn from the past; wise ones learn from what others experience. I don't think there's a fool under the roof of this House. So, you must and must learn from what happened in the past. What did people experience in Europe, and what did they experience in the world? How did they approach us today? What does the European Convention on Human Rights say? How did the European Court of Human Rights apply? I don't know what's wrong with putting them on the table and talking about it. Now, recently, on 31 October 2012, we visited the Republican People's Party's prisons as a study group. We went to Bolu Type F Prison, Kandira 1 and 2. We went to lu type F prison. On the day we left, we interviewed 28 people on the 50th day of the hunger strike -- friends, you didn't hear wrong -- on the 50th day of the hunger strike. Remember what happened when you missed a lunch here, when you missed a meal, when you came here without breakfast. These people have been in a resistance for fifty days -- then -- fifty-seven days now. You may or may not agree with these people's ideas, you may think they're on the wrong track, but...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0026par0356	Tell me clearly, should we let him go?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0357	Tell you what?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0026par0358	Release him?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0027par0359	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0360	Congressman, the matter is examined in two dimensions. Our citizens didn't hear you, so I'm telling them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0027par0361	Mr. Aytug, please, address the General Assembly, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0362	There's a political side to the issue, there's a human side to it. You wouldn't ask me that question if you had a shred of humanity left in you. I'm trying to explain the human nature of this situation, and I'm saying it over and over again. You can reject these ideas, we can all reject them, these ideas may not be for us, but they're for someone. You have no right to insult them, to despise them if they fit.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0028par0363	Politically, it's debatable.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0364	For fifty-seven days, if they are on the fast of death, they will rise up (from the dead).
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0029par0365	Let them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0030par0366	Show some respect, show some respect, we're talking about deaths!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0024par0367	Your Prime Minister has no right to stand up and say, "They're joking, they're eating, they're drinking." Look, we've been talking to these people. They're angry because the Prime Minister said so. Maybe these death fasts would be over, maybe these people would find a midpoint and end it, and because the Prime Minister said so, they swore to die to tell them how serious they were. That's because of the Prime Minister. When the hunger strike in this country became a death fast, the politicians of that time made fun of it, he said, and the coffins began to emerge. There's no point in saying, "Woe to me!" Come on, there's no bigger, no smaller. Look, I'm going to tell you what I consider a physician. The political line of the Republican People's Party is clear, I do not speak outside the political line of the Republican People's Party. As a physician, I want to tell you that the people there are going to die very soon. Dear friends, when you see these people, you don't have to be a physician to know that these people are about to die. They don't understand what you're talking about anymore. We're asking questions, they're having trouble understanding. Over and over again, ask the short voice, our ears echo. Turn off the light. They call it. It's really immoral to say that these are tricks, too. We see the look on those people's faces when they're talking. I wish we had a camera so we could shoot it, show it to you here. Friends, there are MPs in you who are physicians, they know what that means. These people have nosebleeds, blood coming out of their mouths, blood coming out of their rectals. Look, it's all temporary -- let me tell you, as a physician -- if these people live, these findings can pass, but the brain cells that start to die won't. Even if you save these people, the brain cells will die, which will produce a syndrome called Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. I mean, they'll be crippled for life. You have no right to make fun of these people. Even if you disagree with his ideas completely, a prime minister has no right to make fun of them, a minister has no right to say, "Leave it to us, don't upset us anymore." A doctor who became Minister of Health has no right to call it a hunger strike. You can't say that, none of this is human. (Applause from BDP rows) You can say anything politically, friends, but no one, no one, has the right to play with human emotion. Look, I'm gonna give you two names, not knowing them, for the first time in my life. One is Emrah Kaplan, one is Suphi Yalçınkaya. I interviewed 28 people seven days ago, those two were the closest thing to death. Trick-or-treater number 2. They're in Lu Type F Prison. On the way out, I asked the warden, and I said, "Let the ambulance wait here 24 hours a day." In this case, you punish people who are dying with discipline, and you don't pay the price of compensation. For four liras - fear God! - They'll get vitamin B, they'll get salt, they'll get lemons. No, I won't; go get it out of your pocket. And since these people can't find vitamin B, vitamin B1, they're going to get the Korsakoff syndrome I just told you about, if they live. So at least look at the human dimension before it's too late. Let's get this over with, and let's talk about it in the House. I remind you again that Congress is the solution. I wish you all a good day.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0031par0373	Thank you. Mustafa Şahin, Malatya MP, has asked for a statement against the group's proposal for the Peace and Democracy Party.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0032par0376	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself against the BDP's group proposal. I salute your high council. We've just heard our speaker friend, of course we agree with the human dimension, but as if there was nothing in the background of this, I'd like to ignore what happened in the area and say that I'm completely condemning the rhetoric of the AK PARTY Group and our Prime Minister. Of course, the heart wants to make sure that our children don't die in the area, that our children don't die; that our soldiers, our policemen, our workers, our tradesmen, that the shutters don't come down, but in any of them, I think it's a sin to say that the AK PARTY is theirs. It's especially about the city council, which is on the agenda of us and our country, which is going to be one of these provinces...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0033par0379	Is the city more important than human life?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0034par0380	What a big city! There's no such thing as a lack of conscience.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0032par0381	...we are also witnessing that all obstacles that have been attempted for the past two days to bring up the city's municipality have been watched with regret by our citizens. For him, at the moment, we do not accept a number of proposals to invade our agenda, in order for the Law and Law Laws to be made up in order to bring up the agenda as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0035par0383	Well, there's a human life, what's the agenda? Shame, shame! We're talking about human life...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0032par0384	You're the one who's dirty! You're the one who's dirty! You listen, you answer here!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0036par0385	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0035par0386	But it's a conscience! It's a conscience!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0036par0387	Please, Mr. Sakek...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0035par0388	People are dying. Look, there's a doctor who shares his observations with you...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0037par0389	We didn't say anything, so why bother?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0036par0390	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0035par0391	People are dying, you're talking about the big city, you're talking about the change of agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0037par0392	You listen, my friend, you listen, you answer.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0036par0393	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0037par0394	Therefore, I say that I will vote against the motion that is being made to return to our original agenda, and I salute the High Assembly, so that the laws that occupy our agenda may come out at once -- since yesterday's opposition to preventing these things -- of course, our great nation is watching one by one -- to return to our original agenda. Good luck with that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0038par0397	You'd look good in it! Bravo! Mr. President, my dear President, we're talking about human life. The group spokesman here says people are facing death, but it's not moral or conscientious to go out and change the agenda. How are you going to live around here if these people die? Have a little conscience! Have a conscience!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0039par0399	Show some respect! Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit01spe0040par0400	We respect everyone's opinion, Mr. Sakik. Yes, I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0040par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 17th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The National Party of Action has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Date: 07.11.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the consultation board meeting of 07.11.2012 Wednesday (now), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I would like to submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. On Wednesday (November 2nd 2012) it has been suggested that the general meeting proposal for the sale of treasure-owned farmland was read in the General Assembly on Wednesday 07,11,2012 (now) with the support of development of forest villagers No.6292, which we have given the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the assessment of areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of treasure. In favor of the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal, Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0041par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the President on 25 April 2012 to support the Developments of Forest Villagers No. 6292, published on 26 April 2012 by the President, and to assess Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, and to investigate the failures in the implementation of the Law Against the Law on the sale of Agriculture Lands of Treasury. I salute you all. Yes, dear lawmakers, you know, we've delivered our demands, the setbacks, when this law is being discussed in the House, but unfortunately it's not taken into account. We said, for the first time in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, in the 24th term, that if three parties were united, let's at least remove the law in accordance with the expectations of citizens, at the point of the three parties expressing their will at the point of resolving this problem. But unfortunately, on the basis of your majority in Congress, you have rejected all the proposals, demands, motions by your majority, and I'd like you all to see the setbacks in practice today. Look, we've insisted on our views as the MHP Group on both the Commission and the Assembly Council, and we've made the right ones, but you've made the effort at the point of refusing to comply. That's what we said. Now, we've talked about a lot of things here, but we thought we'd stay on three main things. What were they? One of them was that we said, "Let's spend the income from here, again, in the use of our forests and in the development of our forest villagers. You all know, what is the essence of the law?" The development of forest villagers, unfortunately, remained only in the name of the law. Today, 27 percent of Turkey's face measurement is covered with forests, but it is very painful: 27 percent of it is unfortunately 50 percent efficient and 50 percent corruptly qualified forests. So we're dealing with a painting of rock, rock, bush, bushy places, clearings, forests. But there was a small amount of resources predicted, but I don't think that's going to happen either. What was the second thing? The second thing was that the villagers who protected our forests with their lives -- there are many deputies here from the forest village -- for the first time, at night or even during the day, the forest villagers, who protected the forest. We said, "Let this forest be supported by the development of peasants, for they have protected these forests for centuries, for centuries." Because there's a memory of his grandfather, a memory of his father, protected with his life. But you've reached the point where you can protect the forest villager, let alone protect him. And the third thing was, we said, "We are building a law." Let's get this law straight, but you've eliminated the law, and the law's gone. Why am I telling you this? We've told them all about it, told them about it for hours. Now, during this summer -- my region is a mountain village of the Toros, a forest village -- I visited all the villages in Toros of Adana, and I visited the villages of the mountains, and I didn't get enough of them, and I visited areas where there was a particularly busy area of Mersin, Antalya, Mughla, and everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, if you've been around, you've been in trouble. The main problem is, we said it here, you brought a law. Although the Ministry of Forestry has passed this law, the Ministry of the Forest is not in the law. You've made it a work to make money, to compensate for the budget deficit, to balance the current deficit. Now I'm asking you from here. So you can save the day... Now, we expect 15-20 billion, 9.8 billion dollars, 27 billion dollars. Like the Finance Minister and Ali Babacan have various explanations. You can save the day with this money today. You didn't leave anything that wasn't already sold, I'm telling you. You sell treasury land, you bring land sales to strangers, you sell all of Turkey's strategic institutions, all of its institutions that were won during the Republic. You can save the day with what you're selling, but how are you going to build the future? What are you going to leave our children? Now here we have the full development of the Ministry of the Forest and the forest villagers, but it's all been looked at financially, and we're going through a process where the forest peasant is being victimised, let alone improved. I'm asking you now: Mr. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek, October 30th is the end. We've made a very good law, and we're not going to compromise. All our citizens will come, and they will take them in such a way. They said. He's been asked many times, so we asked him. He said: "The date of October 30th is the end." What happened when you had to move the date of October 30th three months forward? I say to you, "Indeed, the true ones have not been able to respond, and the true ones have not yet been able to answer." Look, we're dealing with a victim of forest peasant development when it should be. You haven't explained the prices, you've explained the cost so much that it's so inconsistencies. Five on one side of the same county, one on the other. Your own MPs know that very well, and they can't possibly get it. Yeah, I told you, from here, as the National Movement Party Group, these villagers don't have money for tea, you put $2 billion in application money. So they can't apply. You said, "Sir, let's make it official." We said, "If you're going to make an official, put in 100 lira." Yes, dear lawmakers, look, there are thousands of forest villagers in forest villages who can't apply because they can't give away $2 billion, and there are thousands of forest villagers, and I'm telling you, there are thousands of forest villagers who can't buy because of these prices. Now, in the village of Gedikli in Adana, before the election, there was no response to the request of the National Movement Party, and after this law came out, the head and citizens of that village are looking for us, saying: "Come, we are burned. What happened?" Close to 500 citizens, in Gedikli, they gathered Durmülu, Horzum, and were waiting for us. They say the same things I say, we can't buy them at these prices. They say. Is it solved? It's not solved. Behold, I have walked in Mersin, and have walked in Shullah, and have walked in Antalya. In Mersin, these were left by their grandparents for fifty, sixty, and many centuries. Where they left their grandfathers, their father, carrying a sack of dirt on their backs, dug up land that could plant an acre or two, but today he can't get it. So, what are you gonna do when you don't get it? According to general provisions, you'll sell to third-person citizens, maybe sell to foreigners. Where did you think the forest peasant was, where was the forest peasant's development? Isn't it a shame about this jungle peasant? Let me be clear, look, you've received 50 to 60 percent of the votes from those villages, so these citizens have given these votes to your strange group of people, like poor people, but you're here to... look, look, come, here, let's support this research proposal. Do you know who took advantage of this 2/B? Those who take advantage of 2/B will dry the salt, contractors, tourist hunters, who know their opportunity. Look, come on, let's do their research, but so far, it's 31 percent that's invested his money and fulfilled his terms. Tomorrow, three months from now, you'll meet this painting. So, what's going to happen to these citizens? We have passed over to Shullah. We have passed over to Mughlah. There are 1,100km of beach tape on the road. Here, our citizens have been olive workers since their ancestors. Now, prices have been set so that it is not possible for these citizens to buy it in Mugla. Well, who's gonna get it if you don't? The third party will take it. Who's gonna buy it? The foreigners will get it. Who's gonna buy it? The rich will get it. Yes, the forest peasant is already devastated, the poorness of the forest villagers has entered the Parliament's reports, has been researched, has taken the least part of Turkey's national income. I mean, with this law, we're supposed to protect the jungle villagers, but right now, you're a victim of protecting the jungle villagers, let alone protecting them. Be sure of it in Aladağ, investigate, look, come, let's do this, let's do the research. They've set 20 billion liras, 20 billion liras. I've been there with two or three landowners, real estate agents, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I don't know, I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been there, and I've been 500 liras, $1 billion. Yeah, well, it's a shame he's been using it for 15 years, 20 years, 50 years, 100 years. So how does this citizen get 500 liras, $1 billion, when you give it to him for $20 billion? If you don't believe me, come... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Give us a little support on this thing, and we'll get all of these facts out in the open. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0042par0037	Thank you. The nationalist Movement Party has asked to speak against the group's proposal, Osman Coffeeci, Karabuk MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0043par0040	Mr. President, I find that the esteemed MPs have made a commitment against the motion to open a general discussion on the development of forest villagers 6292 and to assess areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the primary objective of this Law is the assessment of areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure, according to Article 2 of the Law of the Law on 6831, and the procedures for the support of the development of the villages and the development of the forest villages in or near the state forests of which the move has been decided. So the content of the law includes the 2nd Article (a) of Forest Law 6831 (a) and (b) fields that are removed and removed from the forest. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in the civilization of humanity, humans have always had and always had the intention to gain and settle agriculture in forests, against forests, against forests. It's a process. In some countries this process has also happened and ended, while in some countries it continues. This process has happened in our country, and hopefully it will end with the end of the forest and land cadastro. The fact that 95 percent of the forest and land cadastro in our country is complete is the most obvious expression of where we are in this process. The first beginning of the legal process of deforestation is the Law of the Forest, issued in 1937, in the Law of the Forest, 3116. It was followed by the Constitutions of 1961 and 82. Many legal arrangements were then made, and the legal process was blocked by the cancellation of these by the Constitutional Court. I mean, this has been on our country's agenda for sixty-five years. During this period, hundreds of thousands of hectares of treasured land, for the sake of the treasure, and hundreds of thousands of citizens who have used these land for years, have had a number of gangrenous legal, social problems, and have been asked to resolve them quickly. However, after 30 years of the final constitutional arrangement, none of those in power showed the necessary sensitivity or courage to resolve the problem. AS in every field, the EC PARTY has also resolved this problem, which has become a problem for people with the necessary sensitivity and courage and years of gangrene, and has made peace with the state and has fulfilled its promise to the nation. With this law, the matter and the basis for the transfer and placement of the people of villages, which are impossible to be found in and next to, to the areas that have been removed from the forest borders, has been established. In this parallel, the victims of earthquakes, landslides, floods, natural disasters, and villages near the forest, which are obliged to be placed elsewhere due to state investments such as dams and ponds. Again, with this Law, the transport of forest villages has been opened up to publicize the land belonging to the people, and thus preventing the forest from being narrowed down as a state forest. Again, with this Law, 2/B has been removed from the forest borders, but has been allowed to re-integrate areas covered with forest cover as a result of users leaving or giving up use. In this way, only 11,000 acres were returned to the forest in Istanbul. Again, with this Law, the total loss of forest quality in science and science and the use of places that are no longer possible to return to the forest has been determined, and it has been decreed that the rightful owners of these places should be sold directly through the price. The cost assessment took into account elements such as the municipality, the trade room, the industry room, the stock market, or experts, the location of the movers, the units values, development and use of the precedents, efficiency and infrastructure. In order to ensure that our citizens do not suffer harm, checks and tests are carried out from various angles, as to whether the costs vary according to their precedents, by going all the way through the relevant commissions. The sale price of the rights holders will be 70 per cent of the rail price, which is 30 per cent off. The application costs are in escrow and are subject to sale or return. Here, the rights holders of the villages have been given an important privilege. The price of the sale is paid in advance or in installments, with a discount of 20 per cent or 10% if at least half of it is paid in advance. The payment is thus paid in advance, nearly half the cost of the track. In installments, 10 per cent of the sale price is paid in three months at the latest, while the rest is paid in six equitable installments in the municipality and the mujavir area area in three years at most, and eight in less than four years, except for the municipality and the mujavir area border. In addition, the arrangement allowed the price to be paid by loans provided from authorized loan companies. As it turns out, the payments were made with great ease, both for time and interest free, while the residents of rural areas were given different conveniences. Again, with this Law, it has been decreed that, according to the specific laws of being a state, the registrations of property sold to persons by the state are valid, and that the cases filed against these places should be waived. Again, with this Law, it has been passed by the Treasury of 2/B that the lawsuits that should be filed against people should not be brought against them and that those who have been prosecuted should also be stopped. As a result, there are 450,000 users in 38 cities, where 2/B is heavily populated. As of October 30, 2012, the number of applications was 390,651. So it's about 86 percent. The purpose of the three-month extension of the application period is to compensate the victims of citizens who have not applied despite the ease. This Law is not intended to obtain income for private budgets, it is intended to resolve a social problem that has been gangrene for years. The fact that no price has been taken from these areas is also incompatible with the understanding of a social state. The development of forest villages and their best use of forest resources are under way. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are 410,000 hectares in our country that have been taken out of the forest by 2/B over the last 30 years. In contrast, the forest area has increased by 1.4 million hectares in our country over the last 30 years. So the area lost by 2/B in 30 years is 2 percent of our forest area, and the growth of our forest area is 7 percent. On the other hand, in our country, it is being rehabilitated and treesed by a corrupt and naked field as much as the area lost by 2/B. There is no shortage of resources. In the last five years, our country has become one of the few countries in the world to increase forest existence. This is the result of the importance of the AK PARTY government to our forest villager, to the development of our forests. The purpose of this Law is not to obtain income for the state budget, but to treat a social injury. Therefore, I declare that we are against this general debate motion, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0044par0051	Thank you. Ilhan Demiröz has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal of the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0045par0054	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the President on 25 April 2012 to support the Development of Forest Villagers No. 6292, published on 26 April 2012 by the President, and to assess Places Outside the Forest Borders in the Treasure's Name, and to open a general meeting by the National Movement Party on the sale of Treasured Agriculture Lands. I salute you all with respect and love. I take it the Minister of the Forest has never taken matters into his own hands while this law is being discussed, and I don't think he has the decency to listen here or here. Because it's a general discussion and it concerns the Ministry of Forestry, but I'm afraid I'd like to start by saying that they don't take this matter seriously, and I'm sorry to start by saying that they don't. Dear lawmakers agreed on this 2/B law, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and the Justice and Development Party jointly agreed that this law would take place. In fact, we all know that the Republican People's Party has been trying to resolve this issue, which has been gangrene for years, in terms of peace. Given the talks on the subcommittee, I'd just like to remind you that despite the agreement of all parties to reduce 70 per cent of Rayic's prices to 50 per cent, the commission's work on this matter has unfortunately been ignored, and this has again been increased to 70 per cent in the General Assembly. This is where the Justice and Development Party's sensitivity has been seen in the subcommittee, as well as here. I also feel the need for a reminder. Why? When we as the Republican People's Party announced this peace project, we had some suggestions. What did we say? We said that if the municipality and the mujavir have a dwelling on it and it has one dwelling on the property tax, if there is more than one of them, it's on the rail price. And we also said that if there was an industrial plant in the municipality and the mujavir area that had to do with agriculture, on the property tax, on the property tax, on the property tax, on the subcommittee, on the commission, on the commission, and on the commission, and on the board, but unfortunately, no one had considered these issues, on the property tax, if these areas were given to them outside the municipal mujavir area, if these were to be given for free or to farm them, if they were to be given them again, then they were done whatever they needed to legalize the math given to them, my dear friends. Then, one of our important objections to this issue is that at a time when the Ministry of the Forest was not the Minister, and at the time we defended the Ministry of Forestry, we said, let's give a large portion of the income from here to the Ministry of the Forest to restore forest areas. But it wasn't done that way, my friends, and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, in those days, and now the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is very popular again because they've become so powerful that they have the right to do what they want in matters other than incomes in this law. Of course, the Ministry of the Forest acted quietly, as it was not here. Dear friends, when we discussed these laws, we all talked about these problems, we all knew that there would be problems, and when we went to our territories, we took from our friends, from our farmers. I'd like to get into that. I'm the Fellowship Congressman. We had a total of 13.593 parcels and a field of 46 million 835,000 square meters, with 2/B land. I've been to villages that have been busy with 2/B. We've had meetings with friends and citizens here, we've had talks with Gemlik. We've had talks with them in Gemlik. I'd like to point out that no one was responding as if they were interested in what was to be done about it, as if the owners of property, and the booksellers were united. We've prepared petitions, no petitions, no responses to those citizens because they didn't want to be announced. If they explained the cost of Rayic, it would be transparency, which did not always work for the AKP. What's up, guys? Friends, valued lawmakers; these petitions were answered, which was said to be... I want to underline this place specifically, and I want my fellow lawmakers to hear about it by the end of July -- again, by the end of July, we wrote the 2/B land to the municipalities, we wrote it to the TOİKİ. The municipality and the TOİKİ are going to look at the zoning plan, to look at those areas, to see what you like. There is in the article, there is in the Law, there is in the dispute. If he's going to buy it there or give it to his followers, he's going to take it out of that 2/B sale and let the rest of it go. So the petitions were not answered, despite this Law, which came out in August. What was done then, my friends? These petitions have not been answered, they have been written to municipalities, they have been expressed as follows, but this has not been explained. In this case, the Bursa MPs are also here to ask the interested ones. We don't have to tell you or tell you the cost of Rayic. What are you going to do? You're going to file a petition, you're going to deposit $2,000 or a thousand lira, and then we're going to answer you in a certain amount of time. So this time, the farmer's coming, the citizen with the 2/B's land, the citizen with the 2/B's, how should I act? You put it in my place. They used the expression, "What will I do if there's a price, a price I can't buy tomorrow?" and there was a very troubling situation in this regard. What happened next, guys? Mr. Secretary said this matter would never be extended, but let's see, despite the statements of the Ministry of Finance, this law has been extended again for three months. So, in these three months, we'll have what we need? No. Because there is no such thing as explaining the cost of Rayic, but there is no transparency. In that respect, our citizens are in a state of waiting. Well, then, Mr. Finance Department, instruct the bookmasters, if the citizens of 2/B are afraid to come to you, please take your papers and go to the villages. Yes, they've been to those villages, but today there are 40 percent of applications in Bursa, but I'd like to say that this is not an interview, it's just a petition. However, I would like to point out that this government also has an advantage because I think -- my wishes don't come true -- when the city law happens, all the villages here will be the neighborhoods. Friends, when we're in the neighborhood, today's application will go up to two thousand liras. I think that's what the government is most concerned about. Because what is it? The AKP government's views on the forest, forest workers, agriculture are known to everyone. In this regard, it is really important for the forest villagers to open the way for our troubled villages. In this regard, I speak in favor of all of you, and I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0046par0065	Thank you. Ali Ercoshkun, member of the Bolu MP, has asked for a statement against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0047par0068	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge against the group proposal for the agenda of the problems given by the MHP Group regarding Law No. 6292, which is commonly known as the 2/B Law by the public. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, as you know, 27 per cent of Turkey is covered in forests -- as the speakers say -- but the honor of being a MP, the 63 per cent of our Bolu (due to its pride) is covered in forests, and a large part of our 492 villages in Bolu Gosh, with these forests, so far, was a very serious problem that had suffered peasants and peasants who had suffered so far. So the dissolution of the property problems of the forest-designed land was a challenge that all of us, all of us, all of us, all of the parties, had a common will, and along with this law, took a very serious step towards the removal of this burden, but ultimately there is a serious issue that concerns all of Turkey, and we have seen some of the problems that we have had during our visits. Especially at the beginning of these problems, there's an inconsistencies in some places. There were difficulties at the application point because there had to be a price for the application to be made, which was a price to be made in some places, up until now, undetermined, but above the price to be set. Hence, we have seen the problems clearly, especially during our village visits during the summer months. But there's been a recent notice from our Treasury Department, as you all know. Perhaps the proposal to be taken into consideration without being informed of this notification has been made by the MHP, as you know. Because in a notice issued by the Treasury Department, the application bill can be submitted until the end of the application period, without charge, so there's a deadline that expires on October 30th, but is extended for three months, as you all know. By the end of this period, any person who wants to benefit from the 2/B can apply without any application costs. What does that mean? Since the prices will be set by the end of these three months, if they're below the price, if they're already higher than they need to pay, then our citizen can perform this process without a price of application. The reason the Ministry of Finance prepared this notice was because these problems from the field had been wiped out.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0048par0072	How many applications were there in Bolu, in Bolu?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0047par0073	Because it was a law study to make money here, not to save the day, but to remove a problem, a problem that has been on the agenda for a very long time. With this notice, it has been a great comfort to us in the field, especially to have this matter resolved, to have these problems removed from many villagers in Bolu, Bolu. If the price is inconsistencies, as you know, it is possible to object to the price set.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0049par0075	They didn't explain the prices! They haven't announced the prices yet!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0047par0076	As a result of the objection, the discrepancy is different, so it is possible to redefine the price difference between one district and the current district.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0050par0077	How many victims are there in Bolu?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0047par0078	We have also worked the mechanism in Bolu, and you can work very well. I don't want to waste any more of your time on the importance of our agenda. As you know, we must immediately work on the law concerning the city council. Therefore, I salute you all, saying again that this tribulation has been largely resolved.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0051par0081	Thank you. I submit to your votes the nationalist movement group proposal...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0052par0083	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit02spe0051par0084	I've been asked to make a decision, so I'll call. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0051par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The resolution of the National Party for Action Group's proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the Council of Counsellors' meeting Wednesday (January 07,11,2012), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 1704.2012, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was recommended by Adana MP Umit Özsımımım and 30 MPs to be read in the same session of the Assembly Research Proclamation (379 rows) to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly on Wednesday (7.11.2012). The Republican People's Party Group has asked for a word in favour of the group's proposal, Umit Özgükmiş, Adana MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0053par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. Before I go to my motion for development agencies, I'd like to talk to you about something much more important than the research motion and the laws laid out here. There was a fraud here Thursday night. As the census was held Thursday night, the majority of the parliament was tried to obtain a fake ballot on behalf of lawmakers who were not present. It's not something to lie down on and forget. During the speech of the MPs who have come out here, Mr. President and the esteemed members of the Grand Assembly, say. There's no mention of greatness here in a place where there's fraud on a ballot. So, today, in developing technology, ballistics, it's a ten-minute job to find out who wrote these fake signatures, fake names. Until these are discovered and sanctioned, the Parliamentary office and, therefore, the House is under suspicion. That's what we'll be after. First of all, I want to say this. I've made a commitment to the research proposal for development agencies. In previous years, we were talking about one of the major problems of the Turkish economy when I was head of the industrial room. There is not a single institution in Turkey that can respond to local and foreign investors, entrepreneurs; State Planlana Organization, governors, universities, Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, or other institutions that will respond to what the Turkish economy will invest in in Turkey in in in the coming years. In that sense, we were really happy when the development agencies' law was drafted, but when we got the draft, we said that the development agencies' law was wrong and that it would sink in the mud. Our Minister at the time was Mr. Abdulatif Sener. We invited him to join the Chambers and Stock Exchange Association. We explained to him where the law is wrong and where it will sink into the mud. He accepted our criticism, our suggestions to the bureaucrats next to him, Mr. President is telling the truth, so correct the law. He said, "We are delighted, but when the law came out, we saw that a single point, the comma, was not changed, and the draft form of the bureaucracy was passed, and today development agencies are unfortunately in the mud, the resource is a waste of structure. Since development agencies don't know what to do, unfortunately, they're pretending to do things they shouldn't do. Let me put the basic wrongs in the headlines, time is short. Number one: development agencies have the wrong job description. There was a clause in the corporations called the subject of occupation. In the last Trade Law, before it was changed, anonymous companies could operate only on that subject. Later, the need of anonymous companies was: documents, machinery, trade, agricultural tools, hotelry, agriculture and so on. In the same way, since development agencies have emerged in many areas that have nothing to do with development, the law is truly out of its function today, as it operates on many issues that are the subject of other institutions of the state. The jobs of municipalities, the jobs of Youth and Sports County Directorate, the jobs of the State Special Administration, the governorships, have been covered by this law, and the errors have continued from that day to day. Since he can't actually produce development projects, and he can't do anything about development, let me give you a couple of headlines. Let me at least give you an example or two of the Çukurova Development Agency, where I was once a member of the board. One of the projects where Ceyhan has given money and support for the grant is the city's antidepressant store project, which needs to change the technical condition of the municipality. In Silifke, we will teach a note to the village women! Again, I am swimming in four seasons. The project is again a work of hands holding a racket against the Tartarsian Tennis Association. Dear friends, while people are starving to death -- someone burned themselves in front of the prime minister today -- while people are burning themselves out of hunger, unemployment, when they can't solve the problems of immigration in Adana, the salt in the country is trying to give money to the people of the country, to pay development agencies to the Taros Tennis Development Association, to put it in a development report. People can play tennis, people can swim, people can learn notes, but let other institutions do it. Since our Minister of Youth and Sports is involved in restoration, he is trying to sell cars to AKP-based municipalities, they probably see it incomplete there and try to shut it down by teaching development agencies to play tennis and swim. Dear friends, let me give you another example. Time is too short. Development agencies from the Kayseri Organised Industrial Region provide grants for the software of the Organised Industrial District Directorate. Turkey's creamy layer, an Organised Industrial Region with holdings, can't spare money for software, development agencies pay for it. There's another mistake: cook it yourself, eat it yourself. Development agencies have governorships, mayors, industrial trade rooms, mayors of the county council. The development agency's budget, again, has continued grants for these institutions. Besides its own budget, Adana Metropolitan Municipality receives $600,000 from the Çukurova Development Agency, where it is on the Governing Body, and industrial rooms. The Mersin Industrial Chamber also buys from Mersin Municipality or the public enterprises within it receive grants from development agencies and do what the public should do. If there really is going to be money for the health department there, the youth and sports county office, why is there such a big organization set up on behalf of development agencies? There's a lot going on. There's a problem with the management structure. A structure with a local development model is the governors' board of directors, the mayors' mayors, the board members, the mayors of the county council, the heads of the industrial and business chambers. Look, TR 90 covers six districts: Artvin, Rize, Tripoli, Silver House, Giresun, Army. Imagine a board of directors who have the same powers, six governors, six major cities, or mayors, head of the trade and industry room and head of the county council. Of course, such a management structure does not produce productive decisions. The general secretary appoints... says the Law: the Board of Directors appoints the Secretary General, but it is subject to the undersecretary's permission and approval. (I mean, in a country, the governors, the mayors, the mayors, the mayors of the city, the mayors of the city, the head of industry, and the head of the trade room cannot appoint a secretary general, the undersecretary's approval, of course. Which means you can't appoint anyone the Undersecretary doesn't want, we'll send the general secretaries from here, on the basis of the cult, the community. As a matter of fact, that's today's practice. What should I do? Development agencies must once become a project-producing kitchen rather than distribute the advance from Ankara to the wrong, inefficient projects. So if you tell me to define the development agency, it should go as quickly as possible to direct the natural resources, technology resources, human resources, directly into investment. To do that, he must first make an inventory, then go through that inventory to a new construction that can put the competition in the years to the investor, the local or foreign investor, in front of him as a project. In addition, there must be absolute incentives and development agencies united under the same authority, in the same ministry, in the same apartment. Right now, someone else has the drum, someone else has the mallet. So development agencies need to find out what to invest in by working in the kitchen and encourage it; these two institutions need to be merged. Dear friends, there's corruption in development agencies, there's corruption in development agencies. I've just seen our Minister of Development, our Minister of Development, but he's not here right now -- I've delivered this speech to his chief of staff -- since there's no time left for that -- in the coming days, when the budget came, I'll tell you how the Minister was abused with his own signature, with the signature of the Minister of Cevdet Yilmaz Development. The development agencies' issue has been spent 1.5 billion Turkish liras since 2008, with little income. For him, it's not a political research motion, but as a result, it's a research motion that concerns all of us. I expect you to vote positive and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0054par0035	Thank you. Ercan Candan, Zonguldak MP who wants to take a stand against the Republican People's Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0055par0038	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the parliamentary research motion for development agencies issued by the Republican People's Party. On this occasion, I salute you all. Development agencies operate in twenty-six regions under the Law on Development Agencys 5449, Co-ordinating and Jobs. Now, the real goal of these development agencies is to eliminate regional development differences, where the university, the industrialists and other public enterprises have come together to make this level even more uuniform. The main goal of this is to contribute to the development of regions through different support mechanisms in various areas. Now, of course, this is in 2006, but the law has been operating since 2008, so it's only been four years, my friends. Four years is a short four years for research and development. The legal deadline for a doctor is four years. So you already need four minimum years to do any innovation, to do a study, and to benefit from this work. After four years, you start to see the original printouts. For him, it's too early to talk about these things, it's a very, very new agency. Of course, there have been some minor errors in the organization. What's even more interesting is that Mr. Kilicdaroglu was in the lower commission when the Plan was in the budget, and his contributions were also in this law, and he's here. Of course, I just want to give you a few examples, and I don't want to take up too much of your time. Now, all the negatives have been discussed, and I want to talk about the positive side. Zonguldak is a small and medium-sized SME in the district of Alablı, Zonguldak Province, Turkey. This is from the development agency BAKKA, the Western Black Sea Development Agency, which has provided about $400,000 in aid to this organization. For this 400,000 lira, friends, look, this is the first time Turkey has produced eight inches of pipe profiling. In return, there has been an increase in exports of 1.5m euros annually, an increase in employment, and this small company is currently exporting to 26 countries. So we're just looking at the empty side of the glass, and we need to look at the full side. Again, in the earlier province where I was in Bilecik, where I was also a member of the upper board at BEBKA, a support given to a medium-sized firm in Bozüzük -- about 323,000, a small support, but there was an increase in their annual sales rate of 31 percent, up by 20 per cent, there was a 40 per cent increase in employment. So there are such small companies in Anatolia that can actually do big things with tiny support. For him, these development agencies are really in place, they're supposed to be, and they're really doing their job? Yes, they do, but of course there are flaws. And we'll get through it in time. Of course, there may be some mistakes, but like I said, guys, it's very, very low in the four-year period. And there's something else our friends said. It says: 1.5 billion liras cost here. That's $1,203, $1 billion, 203,000 from the government, and that's 500 million from the privates, as well as the other contributions. There's about $1.7 billion worth of expenses here. It's not even a drop in the sea when you compare it to Germany. Germany spends about 14 billion euros on education and teaching and spends 2013 on research. So where's 14 billion euros, and where's the $1.5 billion that we're talking about right now, 500m euros? Of course you will, because it is God's will to take it without giving it. So you're going to give something, you're going to increase exports, they're very good. I don't want to go too far. In conclusion, I would like to say that the agencies have not yet completed their process, my friends. In the process of institutionalisation, distance has been taken and the process of deepening and specializing has been established. There are about 900 people working here, and more than half of them are graduates and PhDs, so there's some kind of brain power here. These will, of course, guide them in some way over time, you see over time the increase in exports to those less developed areas, we don't do $140 billion exports for nothing. It's a lot of people around here. For him, agencies, analysis and strategy will reveal the advantages of the region, assess these potentials, and do what they can to achieve its goal in 2003. There are little mistakes, they will be corrected, my friends. This Law is a very new but efficient law. From this point, I declare that I do not agree with CHP's group proposal and that I will vote against the motion, and pay my respects to the High Council and my nation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0056par0050	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0057par0053	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party group proposal. My dear friends, the issue of these development agencies is that there is really a serious research, a study, in terms of important regional development. I'm not just saying this, Mr. Secretary, that he was just here, he's just gone -- in the news that has just gone online, our President has asked for research, research on six issues, one of which is about development agencies. We were just saying, and I'm going to go over the details in a minute, but that means that this matter will have to be investigated and examined, and Mr. President has given this directive to the State Control Board. We need to be a little embarrassed here because we're the ones who should be audited, we're the ones giving the budget, we're the ones who established those institutions -- by "we," I mean the legislature, you, all of us, Turkey's Grand National Assembly -- and we should be doing those audits, and our president gave us this directive, so I guess he didn't just say, "We" out of the blue. And lo! some tidings have gone before him. Now, here, there are questions about staff, there are questions about other issues, and there are questions about expenses. Yesterday, Mr. Konya MP Mustafa Kalaycı Bey -now on the Commission, we're Plan Budget, going down a bit, thank you. Thanks to you, he wants to know what percentage of the staff costs here are, in the same way, because you've got them all in the budget process. You know why he's asking? Because in the establishment of development agencies, in the second joke of Article 20 of the Law, which you issued in 2006, the sum of annual staff costs was dominated by the latest year's budget revenues that could not exceed 15 per cent. Now, we're looking at the way the Department of Development normally controls test systems, even though they've been overexpensived and overspended, and they're constantly staffed, and they don't know why they haven't been called to the exam, and now we're looking at the way they've been tested there, and we're looking at the test on whether the development agencies have taken personnel, whether or not they've been actually done, and we're taking applications, and people don't know why they haven't been called to the exam. A list has been announced, and here's your note, and we don't say "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" or "we" Of course, when we do this, it seems unlikely that we can achieve the desired goals in this frame, dear friends. Now, Mr. Secretary has made a statement to a television channel just two days ago, including these development agencies, says that it is one of the original institutional structures of the government. The AK PARTY is a model established and developed by the government. I mean, of course, that's not what we said, but these are the things that were discussed in the 57th government -- our friends here -- when I was Deputy Undersecretary, to develop regional development, before, in the 60s, and in the 70s. When you remove the region from its head, is it your project when you have a wake-up agency? Mr. Secretary, I would have said different things, but our friends here are always defending us, and he can come and address us again in the General Assembly. Yeah, that's right, it was built for a positive purpose. Let's take away the differences of intergalactic development, let's invest there, let's coordinate with them. We've established that, unfortunately, it's not right for the purpose right now. One, it's not about personnel policy; two, it's more of a discussion today. Plus, when we debated until about twelve last night, and we're about to start a little bit later with the city municipal law, or rather, the whole city, with the municipal bill, combined with the concern that such a federative structure was created, then our citizens think it's been diverted from its purpose. And I've heard a report that if that's true -- if it's true -- there's news in the press that Mr. Minister or whoever is in power, the concerned ministers or group members are always responding -- here (DAKA) is where the head of the East Anatolia Development Agency, on its own, meets with the head of the Northern Iraqi Regional Management, Mesut Barzani. Has it become such an autonomous institution? Unwitting the government's units, unaware of the Ministry of Development, unannounced by the governor? If that's true, it's very bad news. Before this infrastructure is formed, you've already gone into a different practice, dear friends. Now, here, I've just mentioned Mr. Yilmaz. In addition to development agencies, he also said good things about growth and his 2023 target. Of course, there are faults and flaws, but it's nice to have everyone take care of 2023. That's what we call it, it's beautiful. It's good that we all have this vision in the 100th year of our republic, in the 100th year of its establishment, whether it's later, held, patented, or not. Yeah, that's a good one. So it's 2023 in some documents, of course, but writing is one thing, doing it is another, right. Now, if you write this down and do it. On the one hand, when you're targeting the 100th year of the republic, before the 100th year of the republic, you make laws to dynamite the foundation of the republic, I don't know whether it's going to be doing it or writing it, or breaking it, I don't understand. Obviously, here, you have to thank what's been done before, because it's always important to deliver a right. I told you yesterday, every year Turkey's budget will grow, and its size will grow, of course, because it will be nominally increased. And every nation is bound to advance, or else we will be among those who remain behind. The point is, how much did we do when we did it? What field did we do it in, what field didn't we do it in? What did we do wrong? Where did we commit corruption, corruption? These are important. We have to, we all have to. It is our duty as opposition to say what's missing here, to make it right, to make sure that these works are done in a constructive, guiding way. So here, by eating rights, by doing wrong, and then yesterday, Mr. Şandir -- I don't think there's any Mr. Elitaş -- there's been a legalization issue, if you remember. Now, I want to tell you a little something: when a dervish comes to the end of the process of fighting the soul, of course, he's free of all things, not only is he going into an export, he's changing his dress, he goes to a barber, he shaves all his hair, he shaves everything he's got. Right in the middle, there's a young man coming in. Get up from there, pumpkin. I'll shave. He says, "Excuse me." He goes again, he comes back, he insults me every time. He doesn't make a sound, he sits there, waiting his turn, for the glory of the dervish. He goes out, and before he's even within a few feet of it, this thing in the middle of a carriage gets stuck and dies. The barber is quietly looking back. Isn't it a little too much? He says: "I'm not offended, I've allowed my right, but I also think that pumpkin has a owner. I think he's offended." One of the things he says is that he really cares about God the most. So come, with such force, with such force, with certain things, I said that you have done the rights of the 57th government, and here you have done us our due. [[What does the AK PARTY have to do with it?]] And right now it's the Plan and Budget Commission up there. It's something that goes beyond right, really. I've told you a short story, and since it's not, let me read you another one. I mean, I don't think I've been able to explain the importance of our friends, but what does that have to do with anything? Dear friends, in the village of Kossere, again during the Battle of Çanakkale, a dressing place is set up, citizens, soldiers from many places are running. One of them is in the last trouble, he's about to exhale; there's too much chance I'm going to die, so I've written a compass, so get it to my friend, he says. In the meantime, I borrowed a fortune from İbrahim Corporal of Lapsekli, and I couldn't see him, and if you see him, I might die. After that, after a while, he dies on his commander's lap. Of course, during that time, the patients, the wounded, continue to come in, and one of them, again, is dead -- God rest his soul -- and they open the note, they read it, they read it, and it says, "I lent my friend Halil. He couldn't see me. In a little while, we'll go on the offensive, and maybe I won't be able to come back. Tell my friend to give me his blessing. I mean, I've given him my blessing. In such an environment, I have told the sad tale of two friends who, even in the midst of that war, have considered the existence of one, who have lost the right to a servant, and who do not observe the rights of a servant is one of the greatest sins. Don't torment yourself or us.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0058par0070	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal in Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0059par0073	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. The Republican People's Party group proposal is about development agencies. A proposal has been made, including the mandate description, management structure, and other topics in development agencies. Our Zonguldak MP, Mr. Candan. We have statements. I'm not going to go over this again, but I want to stress something, and here's our Minister, the development agencies have made some serious gains in their work so far, and development agencies have been accepted as the Year of Analysis (2012) this year. Why did I want to underline that, what do you mean, the year of analysis? Which is a very serious step towards what to remember. Again, an important step towards commercial identity preparation is the year of analysis, I stress again. So it's about what kind of investment policy the provinces are going to follow in 20 years. It's in every one of the European countries, so you can set your fronts for years, not years from now, and you can program it, and in that sense, development agencies have a very valuable value. Pulling out an investment map of all cities means determining regional strategies at the national level is the existence of development agencies. However, the topics underlined by Mr. CHP MP are of course very important, and he said: "Structural changes can be made, some changes can be made to the definition of the mission. There will be respectable Minister here, of course, who will consider this. I'm going to underline this topic, and I'm going to state that there's a Metropolitan City City Legislature bill, which is very important for today, a bill we're planning to take out this week. The fact that we have thirteen new major cities is on the agenda, a bill that deals directly with our twenty-nine major cities with the present, directly with their work and programs. In that sense, the Republican People's Party declares my opinion against the group's proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0060par0078	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0061par0080	Mr. President, I'd like to make a small statement based on 58. There's been some misinformation about yesterday's report, and if you'll excuse me, I'm either at my place or...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0060par0081	Please, take your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0061par0084	Thank you. Mr. President, of course. I said, we're getting the rights of the people because I looked at yesterday's report, and now I've asked my friends for the last thing. It's written on one side, "Hiseyin Günal" and then "Mehmet Günal" and then "Hiseyin Günal" again. Now, Mr. Tanal, at least, had said Ahmet. I say, now, let's make the king. That's what happens when we make our friends work up to twelve. So here, of course, it opens tomorrow, it can be considered in a different way. For him, the word here is mine. It continues below, there is a Mehmet Günal. You sent me to Mersin. You made me MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0060par0086	We brought it to Antalya today, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0061par0087	With all the stuff that happens to friends, I guess there's a mix-up. You're killing them, too. They were just asking if we're getting the right to a servant. So, since I consider it important for the following archives to be corrected in the transcripts... Thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0062par0090	Thank you. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs from the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0063par0103	If you'd just have a look, Mr. President, have a look. You don't look at it. You pass it by.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0064par0104	What does this Commission do, sir? Why aren't the ministers working?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0063par0105	Maybe they're here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0065par0106	We will resume negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the 3rd ranked Financial Rentals, Factoring and Financial Companies Act...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0064par0107	Not again.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0065par0109	Commission? No. It's been postponed.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0066par0111	Here, the Commission is working upstairs, Mr. President, the Plan and Budget are working.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit03spe0065par0112	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Gorıkulu and 20 MPs; Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba and 22 MPs; Balıkesir MP Ayşe Nedret Akova.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0067par0003	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0005	The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Yes, Mr. Vural... please, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0067par0007	Mr. President, yesterday we had objections about this application, coming to the bench.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0008	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0067par0009	Therefore, regarding these objections, we ask that our views on this report be taken into consideration.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0010	You asked for a formal discussion yesterday, but I promised Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0067par0011	About your attitude yesterday, sir, don't promise...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0012	Wait a second... Did you want to discuss the procedure first, or was Mr. Leader promised earlier? You've looked at the records, haven't you? If you haven't looked, let me read: For this reason, the bill will be discussed in sections after all negotiations are agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, and the clauses in the section will be voted separately. Mehmet Günal, look, you're doing it wrong. (MHP rows knocking on doors, banging on noises)
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0068par0016	It's a clear, procedural argument. You're doing it wrong. It means you've made a mistake in a procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0017	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the entire bill, Sırrıyya Önder, İstanbul MP. (MHP row doors, noise)
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0068par0018	Yeah. But you're doing it wrong, so...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0019	Mr. Leader, take the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0068par0020	These have also evolved, Mr. President. You know, while I was objecting there...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0021	Just a moment, Mr. Vural. Oktay Vural - Mr. President, I want a word on the procedure, and I want a word against you. I want your word on your attitude, Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0068par0023	Yeah, it happened at the same time.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0024	There's a Civil Charter here. Please, I mean, act according to the Civil Code. No, sir, the procedure is discussed first. You said. It's obvious here that I promised Mr. Commander. Now let's make a promise to Mr. Commander, and then we'll discuss the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0028	Sir, no, because it's happening there at the same time, at the same time...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0029	Not at the same time, Mr. Vural has filed a report. So, what should we honor? But then let's do this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0031	Sir, we were there before he entered. Just because it's next on the books doesn't mean it's after our request. They can't write at the same time.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0032	It happened in front of the bench, so it's all here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0033	Can they write at the same time?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0034	I'm telling you, it all happened in front of the podium.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0035	Are they going to write side by side at the same time?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0036	And as we put it here, the transcripts are being presented.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0037	No, Mr. President, there's...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0038	So what are we going to honor?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0039	Mr. President, look, you're making a mistake here. What do I object to at that moment? I guess we're not here for tea or coffee.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0040	But I don't want to start a legal debate. I'm not saying that. Let's get Mr. Commander or anyone else in first place to talk, and then we'll have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0041	Mr. President, why did I come there?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0042	But that's not why you're there, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0043	That's why we're here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0044	No, dear.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0045	What are we here for?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0046	You didn't want to discuss the procedure first.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0047	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0048	I said, you didn't want it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0049	That was before, sir. You're wrong about what's going on here, your attitude about it is wrong, we have objections.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0050	So, what do you want a formal debate for now, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0051	It's about our objections.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0052	It was discussed yesterday. There's nothing more to discuss, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0053	We just disagreed. It wasn't discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0054	What did we do yesterday for two hours? Yesterday, what did we do here for two hours when this bill began to be discussed?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0055	Mr. President, how do we discuss an unknown report of the commission's will? That's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0056	Yeah, we talked here yesterday, okay. Mr. Vural, it's true, I don't have the authority to return the commission report. I said, I repeat, there's nothing I can do, not only if the commissioner pulls the report, but we did.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0070par0057	You have a commission, sir. You have a government. Article 88 of the Civil Code, the Commission has the authority, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0058	Mr. President, look.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0065par0059	Mr. Vural, these conversations, these arguments, they're over. I...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0060	I'm starting a formal debate, sir. I'm opening a legal debate on the commission report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0071par0061	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0069par0062	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0072par0063	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0073par0064	Who wants it? You want it? Okay, both of you. Anybody in favor?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0074par0066	It's in your favor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0075par0067	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0076par0068	Mr. President, sir, the commission report is wrong. Look, now, on page one of the commission...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0077par0069	Mr. Young, we've had a discussion about the procedure. All those in favor of a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0076par0070	No, I'm saying something else. See, now, at the beginning of the report, the government says there's no proposal, no general grounds, no material grounds, no text. So the government's text wasn't shown here, it was shown on a front page.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0077par0072	Yes, lawmakers, it is understood that there are allegations of violation of the Civil Code in various ways regarding the bill we discussed. Before we start talking about all of it, I'm going to listen to the allegations, and I'm going to open up a procedure discussion. I'll hear the allegations about the bill first. Mr. Canikli, for your own good.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0078par0076	Mr. President, I want a word against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0077par0077	It's written in two favours against you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0078par0078	I'm in?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0077par0079	You're out, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0078par0080	Well, my argument's different.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0077par0081	I'll give you five minutes, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0084	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. Dear friends, we've been discussing this since yesterday; we've been discussing it with you at the General Assembly, and we've just discussed it in the President's office. In fact, we haven't been told, there's almost nothing left, and everyone's expressed their opinion, opinion, everything.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0080par0086	And you didn't take any of it into consideration.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0087	It's so clear and undisputed that, guys, look, first of all, we have a commission report. The commission has done its work, completed its work, submitted this report to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0081par0088	It didn't work according to commission. Did you read the report? You haven't read it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0089	Now, first, we need to clarify what the General Assembly will do on the commission report. The General Assembly accepts this commission report, changes it or rejects it. He argues in his own way, he argues, evaluates, accepts, changes, or rejects the procedure set out in the Civil Code. What else? It is not possible for the General Assembly to establish another procedure on this report, not legal. So from here on out, sir, it's not going to be on the back page, it's going to be on the back page. For reasons such as this report, there is no authority for the General Assembly or any member of the General Assembly to be sent back. Besides, at this point, there's not a single flaw in commission work. There are two things...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0090	How do you know? How do you know? For God's sake! Can't you read the transcripts? Can't you read them?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0091	I know from here, I'll tell you, I've looked at the reports, I've looked at the transcripts. First, did the commission's will come out?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0092	Brother, we saw this report later, then. They sent it to our room.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0093	So has the commission's will been revealed in this report? He's out.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0094	The votes are fake, the MP is fake, the report is fake!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0095	Why? Because when we looked at the commission reports, the Commission voted as follows: I submit subcommittee reports and amendments to your votes: At the end, after all these negotiations. ▪ All in favor... Those who don't agree... Accepted. Is there a report? I do. Is there a record? I do. Is there any problem with that? No. We can clearly see it in their commissions, in their work. So the will came out. The commission's will has been sufficient for the most part.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0083par0096	The commission report is different from the study, brother!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0097	Well, it's not our will, it's not the will of the Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0098	Also, these signatures... the signature of these friends under this report is a declaration of will.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0099	He signs autographs before we see the report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0100	Could it be a statement of will, a shape, more important than a signature? Oh, no. So...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0101	Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0079par0102	Correct your language, please. That's not an argument.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0084par0103	The commission didn't sign that report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0082par0104	We didn't sign that report. Tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0085par0105	Mr. Turkoglu, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0106	I know what I'm saying. I'm telling the truth. It's all very clear, open the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0087par0107	No, you're lying! You weren't there, for one thing, we were there.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0108	I don't have to be. I got the commission reports. It's as simple as that. Is there anything easier than that? We've got the commission reports, we've just read them. We're telling the truth. We fear God, not anyone else. We're telling the truth, and you're telling the truth. Your friends just read it. It has been determined that this will was very clear in the commission's reports. There's no problem with that. The problem is, or rather, one of the issues that have been presented as a problem is that, sir, you can't change the matter numbers in the General Assembly in the context of redacting. Or rather, the Commission can't use that authority within the redaction framework.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0088par0111	We've told you 50 times on the Commission. We said, let's do this right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0112	He'll use it. He's in charge. Look, I've come to you in the same way as before, in the same way as... 12 articles discussed in the Commission, and it came to the General Assembly as 36 articles.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0089par0113	Does that make sense?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0090par0114	Why are you showing us your old mistakes? Aren't you going to do anything right?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0115	History, I'll give you its number: The number is 253, a law on the Public Contracts Act and the amendment to the Public Contracts Act. Look, I'm reading to you one-on-one... that the entire bill has been subject to a review of the text of law-making and writing laws that have been changed in accordance with the authority vested in the commissioner, in order to ensure unity and integrity of expression.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0091par0117	After you've accepted the script!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0118	It's the same, one-on-one. The presidency's getting a copy. Is the power of editing being voted on? He's voting. Acceptable? It's on the Commission. Just like before. There's not a shred of difference between the previous ones, everything's the same, everything's the same.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0092par0119	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0120	But it can't be, I mean, there's no reason to...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0093par0121	How dare you give a reason!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0122	There are reasons, but none of them are valid because so far there have been no objections...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0093par0123	Yeah, this meeting started today.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0124	...it's the first time now that the system that's been put into practice in the context of this is being questioned, that everyone has accepted, that there are no objections.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0094par0125	Are we going to protest on the street, this is Parliament!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0126	That's the commission's will, the Commission's will is clear, the commissioners have made their will very clear with their signatures...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0095par0128	That's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0096par0129	That will is not ours.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0130	There's no problem, everything's legal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0096par0131	That's your law!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0086par0132	Therefore, there is no situation to criticize, and the work must continue. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0097par0135	Thank you. This is Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0138	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we don't think this great law of poison is good for the nation. We warn, we give warning, we call to our hearts, we call to our people, "O my people! They're hijacking your right to vote, clearing the way for regional governments, our fight for him, for you. They're destroying the green roots of democracy. In that regard, today's struggle is a struggle for the nation. We don't let people's rights be defeated because they're raising their fingers here for three hours and four hours. For him, everyone will endure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0099par0140	Get permission from the people first!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0141	If the gentlemen don't want the House to work for the trouble of raising their fingers, they should go somewhere else.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0100par0143	Listen!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0144	Dear MPs, a commission report is a report expressing talks on the commission. Look, in the Commission's report, it says, "My dear friends, negotiations on the articles of the subcommittee report have been completed." Now, with the additional lists of the subcommittee reports and text, I submit it all to your votes: those who don't accept... where is this will? There's no willpower here. So...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0146	It's in the commissions, it's in the will, and you say it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0147	We're not discussing the reports here, Nurettin Bey, we're discussing the report. See, the commission reports, Article 42, states that the commission's opinion on the issue and the commission's amendments will be issued a report on the grounds and the work they have agreed on. The subcommittee report on the decision. You make an undecided job look like it's tied up. That's the problem. I want to, and I say, what is it that you decide? I want this, I don't want anything else.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0149	This report is the report itself!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0150	The report determines the subcommittee text, and does not decide on the power of editing. Reduction authority is a regulation authority. It's not right to present the authority to regulate as a decision. Therefore, given according to Article 42, the Commission makes a report on their decision. It is contrary to the decision, because you did not write the decision here, in the report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0151	He's been de-reductioned.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0152	Look, there are worse things. There's going to be more debates about the procedure later, so let me put it here. Look, you're saying that the issues arranged in the form of jokes are arranged as separate substances in the General Assembly in accordance with the way the matter is discussed. What do you say in the report? You're saying in the report that the 14th, fifteenth, seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth, 12th...? You arrange each one as separate substances. You do it yourselves, and you reap it yourself, and you write it down to the commission. This Commission report cannot be discussed because no business has been written. That's the bottom line. No commission reports, no willpower. Your will has no place to be. Thus, this report does not refer to the agreed-upon work as Article 42 when it is looked at in this regard. In that respect, Mr. President said, "If I had authority, I would send it back." Let's put our hands on our conscience, our struggle...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0153	He didn't mean it like that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0102par0154	What did he mean by that?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0155	If that hadn't happened, what would I object to, dear citizens? It wasn't going to happen. What do we want? We say that the subcommittee text has been voted 6+2, accepted, and this report, according to the review given to the presidency, has been submitted to the General Assembly as follows. That's it. This will, I want to see what the decision-making job is, in the reports we don't see, we don't read, we discuss the report. We're discussing the report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0156	Do you have willpower or not? Say it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0157	I'm not saying there's no willpower.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0158	Okay, that's fine, then.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0159	For the work they've decided to do...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0160	The Commission's will has come here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0161	No. He'll file a report on their decision-making. There's no report on the work you've decided.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0162	Well, you said it yourself, there's willpower.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0163	In that respect, Mr. President, this report is missing, no decision. There's no telling what the verdict is.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0101par0164	It's all in the commissions.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0165	In that respect, do it right. What's it gonna be? If you had taken it last night, what would have happened if you had done this editing today?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0103par0166	Did you hand out commissions to the MPs, Mr. Nurettin?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0167	So what? At least respect what lawmakers do!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0103par0168	The MPs saw the commission reports?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0169	Why do you put the Council of Parliament in such a position to be forced to do so? Pity! Pity!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0104par0171	For God's sake! There's will, you say.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0172	Misdemeanor is unacceptable, injustice is unacceptable.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0104par0173	If there's will, it's over. There's willpower.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0174	If there's any irregularities, you'll fix it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0105par0175	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0176	Our request is that the President of the Commission, in accordance with Article 88, should ask for this report...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0105par0177	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0098par0178	...and then we'll continue the negotiations on this report. That's what we want, that's what we want. And by discussing an undeclared report that doesn't exist, you're really being irregular. I demand that this irregularity be rejected by the Council of Parliament. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0105par0181	Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0183	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, in fact, these procedure disputes were held on the same subject last night, and in the evenings of last night, the Parliamentary Court announced its decision. In fact, perhaps it's irregular that this discussion of procedure has come to us again today in the same way. Now, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0107par0185	Are we going to ask you, Mr. Ahmet? Should we ask you? Why don't you tell us and we'll take it?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0186	You will not ask us, but you will ask according to this Civil Code. In accordance with the Civil Code, you will ask.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0108par0187	What does it say in the Civil Code?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0107par0188	You'll have to ask the Civil Code. Everything you can't take in accordance with the Civil Code... you didn't get the Commission's decision to bring the report here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0189	Look, dear friends, it's the same practice that's been done so far, as the Civil Charter has ordered. Article 42 of the Civil Code says:
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0109par0190	Have you always cheated on members of the Commission? You sent a different report from the commissioners? It's all fake work!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0191	We didn't cheat on the members of the Commission, but you're both trying to mislead the General Assembly and you're trying to deceive the public. And here you've explained the real reason. What we're discussing isn't really this way of arguing, but what do we do? What do we do? What do we do? What do we do? What do we do?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0110par0192	Even the Speaker said, "I'll send you back if I have the authority." If you have any respect, you don't talk to the person who rules it. Let Nurettin talk about what we talked about inside.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0193	You've made it clear yourself that we don't impose this law on you. You say so yourself. Dear friends, look, this is the House of the People, this is the stand of the nation, and whatever the Civil Code commands us here, whatever Parliament commands us to do, it will be done within that law office. No soul has the right to impose, nor does it have the right to impose. So we're doing our part, and we're going to try.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0110par0194	I exercise my right from the Civil Code, not according to your finger!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0195	See, the 42nd article of the Civil Charter regulates the commission reports. What it says there is: the report provides reasons for the commission's opinion on the issue and for the changes made by the commission. Reports are signed by the commissioners who took the final vote on the matter, as they did here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0111par0196	Read Article 35, Ahmet!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0197	What does it say next? The commissioners who abstain from the entire report or certain parts of the commission have the right to add abstention or disparity to the report. These members -- these very important friends -- have to write down in the report what clause of the bill or proposal are they in violation. Yes, they did, dear friends. Now, what does the opposition say? The opposition of the DP was discussed by the Internal Affairs Commission and the commission talks have been completed, he says. There's no such thing as opposition. When we look at CHP's opposition, it says, again, in the opposition of CHP: "In the work of the Republican People's Party, more than 100 motions have been rejected by members of the Republican People's Party have been completed, with the Commission's work, the bill being adopted by the ruling party MPs. Yes, the commission is complete. The Commission's report clearly states that the entire bill was approved by the majority of our commissioners. It's very clear, and it's sequencing materials based on editing authority. Now, from the past to the practice to the present. Nurettin Bey just said one, but open up and look, Bill 233 rows. In this report, the number of substances has been replaced, the number of substances increased, based on reduction authority. Again, the same number of rows, 200, open up the commission report, and look, the same issue was made based on redact authority. The number of rows is 239, and the number of substances has increased based on reduction authority, and the order of substances has been replaced. Again, in the same way, dear friends -- this is in 2008 -- Law number 5812 -- this came out, entered into effect -- from 12 to 36 articles. Again, with the same powers of editing, he issued the bill of 12 articles with the authority to write to 36 articles. So, where's the irregularity in that? How is that not fair?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0112par0205	It's all dirty! Don't tell me about the Civil Code, do you know I'm alive?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0206	The real injustice, the real irregularity, is you occupying the council seat for no reason.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0112par0207	And you tell the truth, the truth! You'll get knocked around, you'll get all crooked!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0106par0208	...wasting time to the House for pointless reasons, for preposterous reasons, for people to waste their time. The same subject has been discussed over and over since yesterday. There's not even the slightest lack of law here, not the slightest violation of the Civil Code, as it happens, we've expressed it all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0113par0209	Are you in a hurry?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0114par0210	Will it be in time for tomorrow?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0113par0211	Let's do this right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0115par0212	The 42nd article of our Civil Code is very clear. The commission reports here have been voted, it's clear that the opposition sheriffs say so, and Article 42, which regulates the commission reports, is very clear, and the opposition needs to sort them all out. In any of the opposition's fortunes, the matter has never been done or done in any way. In fact, you've already explained why here. How can we delay this law, it's your account, but the General Assembly won't comply with it, we trust the common sense of the General Assembly, we trust the common sense of our Parliament, of our nation, we leave it to our nation's discretion, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0116par0216	Thank you. Yes, in favor of...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0117par0218	Mr. President, I'm sorry. We wanted a word in favor here at first, but when we looked at the transcripts, our name doesn't exist there. I mean, if that's possible... our friends here are keeping the transcripts, the people who want a word, and that's gonna come out.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0116par0219	No, I promise you, Mr. Tanal, as soon as the discussion is over, sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0117par0220	How, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0116par0221	When the discussion of the law is over, I will now promise Mr. Shandir. Then I will promise you your place.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0117par0222	It's not my place, sir, it's the procedure I'm...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0116par0223	But how many of us are there?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0117par0224	There are reports here, so there's a principle in the law called the word fly and the writing stays. These friends of ours are filing a report, so it's our friends' transcripts that are the main ones.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0116par0225	Mr. Tanal, here it is given to four people. He says, "Two favours, two against." I will promise you your place for your request, and to Mr. Young. So what do we do? Do we have to have a back-to-back discussion?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0117par0226	Sir, I'd like to take advantage of it on equal terms. I want to take advantage of the same conditions that our friends speak on the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0116par0227	He'll speak for himself, I promise. Yes, it's Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP who wants to speak against him.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0117par0229	I mean, one of the MPs is on the stand, and that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0118par0230	Mr. President, I'm saying something. What I'm saying is that the speaker who spoke just now said: "The friends of the MHP, who wrote the prophecy of the opposition, wrote about the materials. " He didn't tell the truth, it needs to be fixed, that's my request.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0119par0231	That's not true, so we want a word from the teaser.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0120par0232	Here, I promise you for two minutes, it's on the books now.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0118par0236	Mr. President, I salute all of you, the esteemed MPs of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0119par0238	What is it? What is it? Don't you represent the sovereignty of the Turkish nation? Anyone who objects to this, stand up!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0118par0239	Those who consider themselves members of the Turkish nation need not be offended. I know a lot of your friends, they're all part of the Turkish nation like lions, but they're not members of the Turkish Nation, I tell them. Now, when this bill came in, we saw that when it was put in front of us, there were provisions against the Constitution, there were provisions against the Civil Code, there were regulations against law enforcement, there were regulations against law enforcement, there were regulations against law enforcement and technique. In good faith, we begged the commissioner and the head of the subcommittee to correct them both on the subcommittee and on the main commission. So we said: this isn't right, let's make this right. We insisted that our motions were rejected, our motions were rejected, and when we wrote this commission report, the bill we had was 6+2, not 37+2. We only found out when we saw this bill was 37+2, which was distributed on our table, which had taken the number of rows, and we saw the entire bill. Therefore, this report is not the report we wrote as opposition. We wrote opposition on the accepted subcommittee report. So there's a false report here. This House has to fix this fraud. I'm supplying.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0121par0243	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0122par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0121par0246	Mr. Young, the discussion isn't over yet!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0123par0249	Dear friends, as the National Movement Party Group, we are aware of the possible consequences of this law...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0122par0250	Mr. President, you just gave him five minutes, you're giving him two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0121par0251	Mr. Young, that's a polite way to say it. It could have been a mistake.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0122par0252	Then don't make a mistake!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0121par0253	We're fixing it. But there's a polite and decent way to say it!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0124par0254	Dear friends, as the National Movement Party Group, we are constantly expressing our anxiety over the possible outcomes of this law, our nation's unity, the risks of our country's political unity, in the Commission, and then in the press. We express our opposition at every opportunity. Therefore, do not expect us to be tolerant. We don't consider this law an innocent law. It is clear that we will use any means from the Civil Code to prevent it. We will not tolerate or tolerate your mistakes here. This is how it has been done in the past. You can't expect us to ignore what you did wrong here today. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, look, the fundamental error of the Justice and Development Party is this: confused. I don't know where there's a hitch. So the Prime Minister's Laws or the Laws' Decisions here? This law was sent by the Prime Minister as six articles, this bill. You've consulted all the agencies, you've interviewed all the agencies, it's 6+2. Next thing we know, there's a 150-matter difference under these six substances. I can read it one by one: article one, six jokes, article two, thirty-four, article three, four jokes, article four, article four...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0125par0256	Forty-eight.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0124par0257	And then there's the 5th article. Forty-eight jokes. I mean, why is this happening? Then what do you do with it? You're negotiating in the Commission on six articles, you're negotiating in six terms. Mr. President, you would've suggested it in the Commission, you wouldn't have. There have been so many troubled discussions.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0126par0258	The commission fixed it, the Commission fixed it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0124par0259	So you'll excuse this, forgive me- why the cunning? You're compressing a hundred and fifty articles of law and a very important, very fundamental law into six articles, preventing opposition from speaking in the Commission, and you're linking the six-point law to the report, you're negotiating on it, you're taking opposition from opposition parties over these six clauses, and you're taking it, and then you're keeping it on a redact authority. There's a lot of jokes under there, too. And then you put it into the basic norm of the law, and you reduce it back to two. Wouldn't that be the intention of preventing this law from being negotiated, dear friends? So you expect us to overlook this as the Civil Code is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, is, has, has, has, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, has been, This is wrong, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, wrong, do the right job. It's very important that you bring us a very wrong law, then you'll do it right. Look, the decision made by the Commission is this - Mr. Group Vice President has been made. - October 21, 2012, the President says, my dear friends, negotiations on the articles of the subcommittee report have been completed. The six articles he calls subcommittee, six articles, friends. Now, if we're going to negotiate this law in the General Assembly, we'd like to see here the law based on the six-point report that the Commission has agreed to. Other than that, if you discuss the 37-point law here, it would be illegal...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0127par0263	You don't talk about matter, and then there's matter...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0124par0264	We say, look, it's not about arguing, it's not about arguing, it's about doing the right thing. Set this law against the commission -- 37 articles, 47 articles, 57 articles, you're making a fundamental law again -- and re-print this law and send it to the General Assembly, or we'll try to prevent it from being met in this manner by all our powers due to the Civil Code, because this law is not an innocent law. This law is a law that will pose serious threats and dangers in the future of our country and our nation. That's what we think. This needs to be negotiated to convince me it's not like this. There's no way to negotiate by pressing it like that. Let's do this right. Let's get it to the Commission... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...recognise it, bring it here. I'll supply and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0128par0269	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0129par0270	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0130par0271	Just a second, Mr. Tanal, I said I'd give it to you. Sit down, please. Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0131par0273	Mr. President, I'm not... there's a reason, sir... that I'm suggesting that there's an irregularity...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0132par0274	Let's talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0130par0275	Mr. Young, the discussion isn't over yet. Let's finish this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0131par0276	No, no... now here are seven laws...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0130par0277	Mr. Young, the President of the Commission will make a statement, I promised. I don't see why you're in such a hurry.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0131par0278	Well, let him explain.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0133par0281	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been subjected to changes in different jokes, the 4th article of the bill, and several separate articles of the law. Talks in the Internal Affairs Commission have been held on Article 4 (a.k. a.k. a.k.a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. a. After the amendments are completed, it is understood that the clause has been voted out along with the proposed amendments adopted. Later, the Commission's decision authorized the Commission's presidency to regulate the issues in the form of jokes into separate substances in accordance with the rules of consultation in the General Assembly. The writing of the text adopted under this authority has been carried out in the manner specified. Although the report can be drawn up within the framework of the matter system, the amendments made in the matter, starting with Article 1, the Commission's final text, based on the mandate of the Commission, and since the statement was made, a conclusion of Article 4 of Article 4 is found to be made in the form of jokes, again in the Commission's report...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0134par0283	It's not in my best interest, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0133par0284	...in two places just prior to the statement on Article 4 and towards the end of the report, information from the Commission about the authority to edit the text according to the law-making technique has cleared the situation. The text approved by the Commission has been sent to the members of the Commission. During the time of preparing opposition to members of the Commission, members have been able to study the text. In addition to the report, the text, adopted in opposition arguments, finds no criticism of the four-part article's jokes being edited separately, and on the contrary, it is criticised against the first form of the bill's law-making technique. As an example, according to Report 485 in the 23rd term, the talks on the Commission were held on 9 articles and 1 interim clause, but were arranged as 32 articles and 1 interim clauses under the provision of reduction. As for another discussion, it is understood from the report that the draft was made through the subcommittee and the subcommittee text of the talks. The commissions conduct talks through the subcommittee text during the negotiations process of the draft and proposals established on the subcommittee. The subcommittee text is a draft text, and the statement of the bill is clearly shown in the title of the text, so I submit to you that there is no irregularity, that the Commission's will is reflected in the report. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0135par0289	There are many contradictions, sir. That's even worse, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0136par0290	That explanation really screwed up.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0291	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ, I believe you have an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0138par0294	Sir, this statement is bad, it says in terms of fifkrams, it says the subcommittee text.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0295	Wait a second, Mr. Serindağ asked for a word earlier.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0139par0296	Sir, I'm going to verify our Commissioner's testimony and make it right. Would you excuse me?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0297	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0140par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm a member of the Internal Affairs Commission. Many opinions have been voiced about the talks on the Interior Commission, and about how the Commission talks are being held, the speakers who did not take part in the Commission talks have expressed their views. I'd like to make a correction on the matter according to the 60th Amendment, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0300	Take your seats, I promise you two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0140par0301	If you'll excuse me, on the stand...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0302	Please, Mr. Serindağ, we don't have that kind of procedure. I gave it to him because there was a formal debate. Sit down, I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0140par0303	Mr. President, if there's no commissioner...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0304	But Mr. Serindağ, what are you pushing? You have my word, I give you your position. What do you want to tell me?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0140par0305	Why don't you let me explain on the stand?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0306	But I'm telling you, it's out of order. I'll give you my word on your position. Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0141par0308	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0137par0309	Mr. Young, please, respect your friends first.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0142par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, now, look, I'd like to read a chapter in the commission report dated October 16, 2012. This is my speech, and I'm saying, "Secondly, when we look at the report from the subcommittee, we see that there are regulations that are not in line with the law technique. I think there's about 50 jokes in one article. Now, we all know that's against the law-making technique. If you agree, if the Commission approves, let's re-organise it, and see how it is referred to the General Assembly. I said, "Let's discuss it in the Commission."
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0143par0314	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0142par0315	However, the presidency does not see it as appropriate. Now, what's the editing? I found the meaning of the script in the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary. He says, Mr. President, by making the necessary corrections on a written text, don't make the article ready for publication. That's what it means. Reduction, editing, the commission's will to another person or another group...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0143par0318	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0142par0319	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0144par0320	He's saying something important, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0145par0321	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0322	Mr. Turkoglu, there are those who wish to speak before you, I promise.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0145par0323	Sir, you're right, he asked me before I did, but because it's relevant.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0147par0324	Mr. President, I asked for a promise before.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0325	I'll give you my word, but before you, there are those who want your word. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0148par0328	Mr. President, we've been on the General Assembly for two days, and we've had dozens of procedural arguments, and this is the first time we've witnessed this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0329	Right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0148par0330	Now, Turkey's agenda is very...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0331	This is the last time we'll have a discussion...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0148par0332	Yeah, but let me tell you something. Turkey's agenda is very different, but Parliament does not say a word about this agenda. It's called regional management, and we're against it. I wish there was a regional government, if only it had been a decentralized spirit. None of this is true. Either you're going to run this Parliament, or I think you're in there, physically, somewhere else. Because that's not how Parliament is run. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0334	We thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0149par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0336	Mr. Young, come in. I'll give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0149par0337	Now, sir, this law...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0338	Mr. Young, I promise you to take your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0149par0339	No, no, I want to talk about the procedure. Now, in this kind of bill, I mean, this kind of...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0146par0340	Yes, yes... sit down, I promise, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0149par0341	No, no, I'm not talking about my place. I'm telling you, there's been a mistake. I'll explain it. Now, they've combined this law with a bill of the government and nine of the MPs' proposals, he says, at the beginning. Nine proposals of the law have been combined, but there are no provisions for nine laws combined within it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0150par0343	There never was.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0149par0344	According to Article 80 of the Civil Code, if any legislation or proposal is rejected by the Commission, the grounds for rejection will come, read in the General Assembly, the General Assembly either accepts or rejects it. Now, there's no sentence here in the Commission's report on the law proposals that our nine groups of lawmakers have combined on this issue. I'd like to have a formal discussion on this matter.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0346	Thank you. He's on record, Mr. Young. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0152par0349	I want a formal debate on this, because the Commission thing is wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0350	Mr. Young, I've read from the beginning that I'm going to open a formal debate on the subject of objections. Two in favor, two against.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0152par0351	But it's a different way of arguing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0352	Now that it's your request, I promised. Mr. Tanal, please take your seat and I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0152par0354	Mr. President, I'm requesting... there's been a separate error of procedure here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0355	Is that a separate matter? I opened it with the whole thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0152par0356	Mr. President, there's a separate irregularity here. I had nothing to do with the other way around.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0357	Mr. Tanal, please sit down, I promise you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0153par0358	Mr. President, I'd like to start a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0359	You have the right to remain silent, if you don't want to... Here, Mr. Turkoglu, I'll give you your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0153par0361	Like all orators, I want to exercise my right to stand there.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0154par0362	Mr. President, what I'm saying is... look, I ran that bench for seven years.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0363	It doesn't matter if you sit for twenty-seven years.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0154par0364	I'm well aware of the way the Grand National Assembly of Turkey works on that bench. I'm telling you, there's an open irregularity here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0365	Sir, you asked for your location. If you want a word, I'll give it to you. If you don't want it, you won't talk. I argued the procedure. Mr. Tanal, the same goes for you, if you want your place.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0155par0367	Look, Mr. President, I have the official report. Look, Mr. Oktay Vural said, "I'm opening up a legal debate, sir." Mehmet Günal is second in line against Antalya; Mahmut Tanal is third in line. It's an official report. You're being discriminated against by this official report...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0368	Mr. Tanal, he wrote the law, I didn't write it, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0155par0369	...you didn't promise the Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0370	Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0155par0371	Because of your attitude, I would like to open a legal debate under Article 63 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0151par0372	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0156par0374	Mr. President, thank you. And I'd like to thank him for the enlightening information of our commissioner. However, among the statements of our Interior Commission President, the two departments need to be verified, correct from error, from curve. One of them was not allowed to discuss the jokes of any of the articles of this bill except in Article 4; the articles had to be discussed one by one. We had to discuss six things, that's one. Mr. President, they say otherwise. Second of all, we didn't see the bill coming to the Parliamentary General Assembly when we wrote our opposition statement, and we saw it as a subcommittee report. That's why we gave him our opposition. We've also seen it as this red agenda, which we call our opposition fortune, when we get the number of rows. Therefore, our Commissioner's statements need to be corrected. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0379	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0158par0381	Mr. President, now look, I'm opening a discussion in the previous procedure debate, Mr. Oktay Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0382	Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0158par0383	Mr. Oktay Vural has no demands on you or against you. Mr. Vural, I'm opening a legal debate. He says Mr. Mehmet Günal has spoken against him. The first request is for Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0384	Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0158par0385	The second request is in favour of Mr. Mahmut Tanal. Now, you, Mr. Mahmoud Tanal, must make a promise in favor of the procedural debate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0386	Yeah, that's true, but he wrote the law, and I didn't write it. The debate is already being opened. From all sides, three or five people from each group asked for a word. There's no automatic machine here to determine which one of them wanted it before, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0159par0387	But you did it to me yesterday, Mr. President. Your general attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0388	Congressmans, that's how it is... and now I promise you where it is.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0160par0389	Sir, no, look... sir, no.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0390	So what are we supposed to do? The formal debate is over, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0160par0391	If you insist, I'll request a formal discussion of your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0392	No, if his intention is to speak from the stand, I promise you his place. Since we're done arguing, I'd like to call you to the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0160par0393	Sir, Mr. Tanal is allowed to speak from the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0394	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0161par0395	Now, I...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0396	Mr. Tanal, what else do you want to do? The bench, you're interfering from there again.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0161par0397	Now, I invite you to work according to the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0157par0398	I'm not gonna learn from you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0162par0399	Mr. President, are you having a formal discussion?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0161par0401	Yeah... well, here... Mr. President, you may be the Deputy Speaker of Parliament. My attitude here is your...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0162par0403	Mr. President, a formal debate, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0161par0404	Look, you're not listening to us as president. This attitude of yours...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0163par0405	Mr. Mahmut, just a second... Sir, what clause of the Civil Code did you promise? Mr. President, did you promise to discuss Hatib's procedure? Based on what you promised, sir, let us know. According to what, according to what clause of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0164par0407	By what clause did you promise?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0165par0408	Mr. Tanal, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0163par0409	Sir, then I want a promise too.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0165par0410	I've already given it to all of you. What more do you want?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0166par0411	Dear President, valued MPs, Mr. Interior Commission is running the Interior Commission as well as the Governor of Istanbul. There is no clear decree on which law should be transferred to which commission. Where did the Internal Affairs Commission find that authority? It's the Speaker himself who did this. The basis of the law on which work will be held is only in the justification of Article 20 of the Civil Code. Now, when we look at the matter, the Minister can't sit here with the President and members of the Interior Commission. Who's supposed to sit down? In accordance with Article 3 and 3 of Article 3 of Law 3067, the commissioner of the Commission, Plan and Budget Commission, must sit down. In this respect, the President of the Internal Affairs Commission is clearly in violation of the law. Under the 14th Amendment of the Civil Code, Parliamentary Speakers and Vice Presidents must work in accordance with the Civil Code. He must run the parliament according to the Interior Charter, and Parliament Speakers and Vice Presidents of Parliament on the affairs referred to under Article 14 will not be able to avoid duty. When we ask you a question, sir, Parliamentaries know it. That book is from the Secretary of the House, who guides you all the time. I'm reading the basics of Turkish Parliament's Law. (EA/TK) Page 205, exactly: The drafts and proposals envisioning the establishment, re-establishment of provinces and districts must be discussed mainly in the Plan Budget Commission. It is called the Plan Budget Commission. At the same time, this is a supervisor's ruling. This is not a sentence that can do to you, which can be done to you. As acting Speaker of Parliament and Chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Cicek, I'm relying on the number of fingers here to report you to 74 million citizens of our Republic of Turkey. You're in a good mood here. With this law, does it bring burden to the public budget or not? So, is the Plan and Budget Commission in charge of the issues that bring burden to the public budget or not? He's in charge. The Plan and Budget Commission should be the main commission, but here I am in charge of the Internal Affairs Commission. Mr. President's position, since last night, you've been resisting the custom of making promises to the Republican People's Party. You're biased, projecting the events inside your head about the word. Mr. Kamer, you just told our young friend to take care of your group. What right do you have, what authority do you have to engage in arguments within the House? Is your duty and authority to engage in debates within the House, or to remain independent and neutral? Your position there is that your relationship with your group needs to be leveled, and it needs to be at a certain stage. You're trying to run the House in accordance with instructions and warnings from your own group, the AKP. Please, if you will not desist from this attitude, I invite you to resign. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0167par0417	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Yes, lawmakers, the bill...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0168par0419	Mr. President, look, I'm just telling you something. In the commission report, nine legal proposals have been merged. Look at these texts, ask those friends, there's no sentence in the Commission's decision on those joint law proposals. Now, what does that mean? Is that rejected? These nine other friends of ours... look here, it says, at first, that this MP, this MP, was examined together with the law proposals of this MP. He says with the government's bill. But there are no provisions in the Commission text regarding those nine proposals of the law. Now, if these are rejected, see, if you read the 80th article of the Civil Code, it says, "If a law proposal or bill is rejected by the commission, there will be grounds for rejection, read in the General Assembly, and then, if the General Assembly approves it, it will be rejected." Otherwise, if he does not refuse, he will return it to the commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0167par0420	Thank you, Mr. Young. Look, the commission report...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0168par0421	There's an open irregularity here. Sir, I'm going to start a formal discussion on this matter.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0167par0422	Okay. There's information available on page 142 of the commission report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0169par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0167par0425	Among the combined proposals is the establishment of a city municipality in Malatya.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0170par0426	No, what do you mean, answer my speech? Yeah, well, you're the president, so answer my speech.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0167par0427	...in Aydın Province, Efeler...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0170par0428	No, answer my speech.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0167par0429	Mr. Young, I'd like to open up a discussion of procedure, please... In favor, against...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0171par0431	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0172par0432	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0173par0433	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0174par0434	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0175par0435	Okay, I'll turn it against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0436	Write it down. Put an automatic machine on it. Look at you! I'm saying it for all of you. Then you bring in the transcripts. Please... there's got to be some way, some manners.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0177par0437	So you're accusing this entire House of impropriety? Shame! I'm returning the same.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0438	Why do you cast a shadow on the moon of the House?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0177par0439	I'm returning the same to you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0178par0440	The commissions must work well, Mr. President, the commissions brought this burden to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0441	Please... there's a way to ask for a word, it's not the first time you've been asked in Congress. You raise your hand, and here, friends in the Laws write.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0178par0442	I wish the commission report was correct so we could get into the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0179par0443	It's because of your constant ironcladness that this Congress has become like this. I mean, you're not just some kind of scholarship material! Can't there be anyone else in your place? That's enough!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0444	Yes, Lehte, Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0180par0445	Mr. President, do I have a name?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0446	I did, Mr. Young... Good morning, Mr. Gökhan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0181par0450	It was five minutes ago, you can't do that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0451	I'm not... I'm not...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0182par0452	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0454	I'm in charge of the charter, not my father's.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0182par0455	Mr. President, this is a valuable...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0176par0456	It doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't suit you. I'll give you your time again. It doesn't suit us, Turkey doesn't suit the Grand National Assembly, all of Turkey is watching, the Turkish world is watching, our workers abroad are watching. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here, I'm renewing your time.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0183par0461	Is that why you turn off the TV after 7:00 so people don't watch?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0464	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, indeed, are following us now -- as well as Mr. President -- in the Middle East, the Balkans and abroad -- and follow the seriousness here. Now, yesterday Mr. Canikli says, let's be serious. I'll give you a few examples to show you how serious is. There is a Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018, and what does Article 14 of Law 5018 say -- open it, please, look within the law -- say? If you are to bring to Parliament any regulation that requires reduction or increase in public spending, you will calculate the mid-term programme and write the three-year load into the bill. Does it or doesn't it, folks? Article 14 of Law No. 5018. Well, I'm asking you now, Mr. President: is there or is not a law written according to this ruling on the 14th of 5018? We all see that it's not written. Is it possible to describe this legislature work under the roof of the House as a legitimate law study? Instead of setting up lawmakers there, you have to check and take a proper stand on whether or not these laws are dictated to the bill.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0468	And the Speaker doesn't need your setting, Mr. Morning.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0469	I mean, there's a lot of stuff in here that's been said on these podiums before. The fact that you're sitting above us -- let's not say carpenter -- architect is the result of a structure, or else it's nothing else; let me underline that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0470	I don't know where this complex is from... why you're complex, it's not understood.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0471	Mr. President, there's a lot I can tell you if you're going to go on about the complex, but let's keep talking like a congressman and the Speaker.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0472	But you started it, so get rid of the complex first.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0473	I'll come to the second verdict. Look, I'm telling you very clearly that Article 14 of Law 5018 has been violated in this bill. Does that mean anything to you?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0474	Good morning, you weren't here yesterday, you didn't listen to me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0475	If he does...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0476	I don't have the authority, Speaker... we said it yesterday, we talked, we argued.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0477	If so, act accordingly. Don't try to give me directions, I'm just saying my words. Second issue, friends, there's Law 3067. The third joke of Article 3 of Law 3067 states: "If you are making an increase in public spending or a reduction arrangement, the Plan Budget Commission will examine it."
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0480	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0184par0481	I'm asking you now: the chairman of the Plan Budget Commission is writing to the President of the Interior Commission: our work is busy, we can't come. Just then, members of the Plan Budget Commission came to the Internal Affairs Commission to find out about the bill, listening to the bill. If you're talking about seriousness, check them out first, and don't expect any sympathy from us when they're making these kind of mistakes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0484	Good morning, please... Coming up against you, Kamer Young, Tunceli MP...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0186par0486	Mr. President, I didn't interfere because Mr. Orator gave a speech, but I'd like to warn you about something.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0487	Here, warn me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0186par0488	You've just attempted to correct our valued MPs by showing the Turkish world and the entire Turkish world as witnesses, as long as we used our rights from the Civil Code, claiming that it was against procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0489	No... no...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0186par0490	You don't have the authority, you don't have the right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0491	I didn't just mean you, I meant the whole General Assembly. I didn't mean you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0186par0492	I suggest you come to your senses about this, and I strongly condemn your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0185par0493	And I condemn you. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0187par0495	To whom do you complain about the opposition's attitude, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0188par0496	Obama complains to him, Obama complains to him.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0189par0497	Because he won the election?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0190par0498	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers now say, Article 35 of our Civil Code: "Commissions cannot offer the law themselves." Here are six articles in the government bill. There are also nine law proposals from nine lawmakers at the head of this law, and we've combined them, you say. We're reviewing the commission report, and the commission report says: "The government bill, (1/690) is based on the main government bill." So, where are the other laws proposals you combined, and what did you do with them? Guys, now, the congressman's offering the law. Now that you've put it on the agenda as a commission, you're going to write down in your own text what laws have been changed by the law offered by that MP. The lesson is: I've seen fit, and I don't see fit. For example, in the law offered by a friend of ours, it says: "A unified ballot is used in the final elections." Is there any? I'm not saying that because I don't have time for the others. Now, therefore, if you go down this road, the commissions will bring in 20 proposals of the law, put them in a report, and they won't judge any of them. The law proposals of lawmakers thus disappear. So, in my opinion, the commission needs to get this report back and decide on nine legal proposals that he's been working on here after he gets this report back, and I'll accept these issues, and I'll deny... According to Article 80 of the Civil Charter, the commission report on the rejection of the proposals will come, and it will be discussed in the General Assembly. This will either be accepted or rejected by the General Assembly. It's obvious, the decree of our Civil Code. If you go down this road, as I said just now, you will destroy the law proposals of the MP in this way. In that respect, there's a clear violation of the Civil Code. In order to eliminate the violation of the Civil Code, this report must be retrieved, and it must be stated in the commission report on what the proposals of the nine -- the change -- are being offered here in connection with the merger. The commission report is very incomplete in this respect, and therefore, to me, it is contrary to the Civil Code and contrary to the 80th Amendment of the Civil Code, but of course, you've never been here to care about the law, the Constitution, nothing... the majority, the finger, I'm afraid. There's got to be some conscience in people, some decency in people. Is it up to you to question morality? Without them, he neither listens to the law, nor listens to the Constitution, nor listens to anything. You can't make a law like that either. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Yeah, well, moral people don't act like that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0191par0509	Are we going to learn morality from you?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0190par0510	You need to learn.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0192par0511	Yes, it's Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who wants a word in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0512	Thank you, Mr. President. I think he was only down in three minutes, and he was just leaving for five minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0194par0514	That's what the president wanted, and you criticize everything, and that's what he wants right now.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0515	Mr. President, there's something Mr. Young has just said about the proposal. For example, Mr. Ali Longırmak has an offer. It is one of the proposals to establish a district in Aydın Province. I'm opening up, right at the beginning of the subcommittee report, the first, second and third jokes of the bill, just as the bill came in. Look, I mean, if Mr. President listens to how irregular it is...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0195par0516	So the proposal for the law has not been negotiated.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0517	Mr. New, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, he'll answer in a moment. I turn now, I see, in the offer of Mr. Tallermak... Our friends aren't listening, Mr. New, they're leaving soon.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0196par0520	Don't keep the commission busy, the Commission is listening.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0197par0521	I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0522	See, it says, in addition, in Mr. Longırmak's proposal: villages, neighborhoods on the list number one, I've read the commission report, so you say, I'm looking at the bill, and I'm coming to the end. What's in the script? There's no such thing as an extension. The second one, the third one, the first one, there's no attachment in the original. Now, what about the villages and neighborhoods that Mr. Longırmak said? Is there anything in your report? No. That's not what the young man said either. You accepted the bill exactly, but it's not in what our congressman gave you here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0198par0524	They were in a hurry. There was a hurry, someone's waiting.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0525	So now you have to say something. Look, here's the addition, there's villages, there's neighborhoods. What happened in the proposal, were they discussed, were those villages involved? No, look, there's no text you agreed to, so it's not in there. It hasn't, so none of those proposals -- as usual -- are taken into account. Another thing -- Mr. Tanal just told me -- I have stated to Mr. President that you are interviewing without authorization. Because you're taking the authority of the Plan and Budget Commission. Look, the Constitution, the Internal Charter, 3067, 5018, all say that these issues should be discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, and that they should come to the Plan and Budget Commission at the latest, even after they've been discussed in the secondary commissions. So if there's a breach of the Constitution, if there's anything else... Finally, you're setting up 23 counties -- all of our interests. You cover a lot of places. Now, you can discuss this, but you need to discuss it as a commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0199par0529	He has to send it back. It's about another commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0530	The presidency uses its authority against the Civil Code, the Constitution, 5018, and 3067. Which means the right to law, which is our most natural right, will be taken away from us. Please, we've discussed this fundamentally, the way it is, but it's basically a non-reportment. This commission must be withdrawn and discussed as the original commission in the Plan and Budget Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0200par0531	There's no report, there's no bill, there's no report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0193par0532	I mean, there's no report, so there's nothing, so I'm thinking we should see each other again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0201par0534	Thank you. Against Birgül Ayman Güler, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0202par0537	Mr. President, you're not very protective of lawmakers, but I'll start by greeting you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0201par0538	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0202par0539	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are both bad inside and out of this bill. This bill is bad. This bill does not like local governments, closes villages and municipalities. This bill likes state, state.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0203par0540	Did you read the bill, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0202par0541	He likes the territory. This bill is a regional bill. This bill is a country-rant-sharing bill...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0204par0542	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0202par0543	...and this bill is the presidential system bill. We, the Republican People's Party, did not like the inside of this bill. Outside of this bill, it's illegal, really, knee-deep. When the plan goes to the Budget Commission to meet, the Commission says we have work to do, we can't see each other. Then we found out that the Commission had no agenda.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0205par0545	Commissioner, the Commission doesn't know about this, not the Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0202par0546	I saw Mr. Simsek, the Minister of Finance, angry on TV, a bill that brought $3 billion, $4 billion years of cargo; I didn't know it. We have to go to the Constitutional Commission, which is unconstitutional. We have claimed that the Interior Commission has never listened to us. We've discussed a total of six articles, and we're dealing with 39 right now. I'm a full day -- even though I'm the CHP representative of the subcommittee -- I wonder how different this new one is from what we've been talking about. If I had to spend it studying 6 articles and we had to discuss 39 articles here, it's as bad on the inside of this bill as it is on the inside. This bill is against all traditions, against the law, against the law. We refuse to discuss the inside of this bill by being silent about the structure of its law-breaking technique. This bill is a problem with joint proposals. Despite our insistence that the unassembled are not united, we have not received a response from the Commission. We are members of the Internal Affairs Commission, who are curious about the financial portal of this bill to this country. We don't know what burden it brings to the country, what burden it brings to the people, how it divides the blessings, my dear friends. The Plan and Budget Commission should have told us. I'm inviting everyone on duty. This bill, Mr. Canikli, pull it back, pull it back, we'll work better.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0206par0550	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0207par0551	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0206par0552	There's no change in my attitude. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0207par0559	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0206par0560	Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0208par0561	Lift the head...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0209par0562	Mr. President, wait a minute, wait a minute!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0210par0563	Mr. Commissioner...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0211par0564	Mr. President, what happened? No, we had an argument about the procedure. What was the result?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0565	You did the same thing last night!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0566	I said there was no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0567	You know, when someone's talking here, you just keep your head down and read it, and then...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0568	What am I supposed to do? We've been seeing each other for two hours.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0569	We're saying something, look up!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0570	Mr. Günal, why are you calling?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0571	You did the same thing at night, we discussed it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0572	He's not in the system, let him in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0214par0573	Mr. President, I have a proposal for the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0574	Ask him. The Deputy Director of the Group has stood up.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0575	I really didn't see it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0576	You'll see, you don't look up.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0577	I didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0578	Of course, you can't see if you're out of your mind not to see it!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0579	But what do you want me to do? Then we'll have to talk about it by morning. We're not supposed to go in?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0212par0580	Look up, General Board. You did the same thing yesterday, at 12 a.m., you did the same thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0215par0581	Mr. President, there's been an argument of procedure, and you've finally called without an assessment of it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0582	I can ask for the transcripts and show them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0215par0583	No, no, you did it later.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0584	There was no change in my attitude, I said.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0215par0585	Look, we're still discussing the report, this claim about the report...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0586	No, sir, we saw him yesterday. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0215par0587	Mr. President, I'm telling you, look at this...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0588	Mr. Zenderlioglu, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0216par0589	Is there still such a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0217par0591	Mr. President, on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers, the Peace and Democracy Party...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0593	There's no such procedure. But, Mr. Hatibe, I promised. I promised Mr. Hatibe yesterday.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0216par0594	No, that's how you pass. Oh, good, of course!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0595	It's up to you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0218par0596	...I have made a pledge to the Local Administration Act of Metropolitan Municipality, 338 rows...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0216par0597	That's good, that's good! Yesterday, he called me Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0598	Mr. Sakık of the BDP just told me that I'm rusting with you. Now you're saying I'm rusty. Mr. Zenderlioğlu, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0219par0600	Mr. President, you can't.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0601	I made the promise yesterday.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0220par0602	You're doing it as we speak.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0603	I'm doing it. Here you go. You can invade the podium, invade it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0221par0604	Mr. President, our objections to the report continue.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0606	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... What do you mean? Are you going to beat him?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0222par0608	We're talking here. Why are you making him talk? What did you say, make him talk, what did you say, make him talk?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0609	I gave him the podium.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0222par0610	You've decided about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0611	No, I didn't decide on the procedure, I made the promise there first.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0223par0612	You haven't given it to me yet.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0213par0613	That's where I promised you yesterday.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0224par0614	It's all over and done with!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0223par0615	Mr. President, you haven't decided yet. There's been no decision, no decision.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0225par0616	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0226par0617	What do you mean, there's no such thing?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0225par0618	The group is objecting, the vice presidents.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0226par0619	You can.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0225par0620	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0227par0621	The debate over the report is not over.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0226par0622	It ended yesterday, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0225par0623	How did it end? That's what we're talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0226par0624	What more do we have to talk about? I've been here for ten hours...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0225par0625	There's no disrespect like that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0226par0626	No matter what you say, I promised. You were supposed to speak on the committee, sir. I made it clear here yesterday. If the Commissioner pulls it, I don't have the authority, I said I don't have the authority. It's an invasion of the bench, it's an invasion of the bench! This is an invasion of the bench, I repeat. Do it, sir, you can fight, you can beat the speaker, you can do anything!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0225par0627	Public opinion sees everything.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0228par0628	You can't limit our conversation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0229par0629	There's been no end of discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0230par0630	No, why not, dear? I told him how I feel, that he hasn't changed. Okay? End of discussion, start again. S. You can't limit our conversation. No one's limiting your speech, Mr. Korkmaz. Don't take it personally; no one's limiting your speech.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0231par0633	You can't limit it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0230par0634	No one from yesterday would have allowed it this far; I did what I had to do.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0232par0635	No, sir. This is not a matter of leniency, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0233par0636	We're using our rights from the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0232par0637	There's been an argument. In this argument...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0234par0638	End of discussion, end of story.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0235par0639	A Group Vice President raises his hand...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0234par0640	I'm taking a break; I've invited all the members of the group to join the Commissioner.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0235par0641	All right, you guys got a deal?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0234par0642	Whether or not to compromise is the matter of the group's vice presidents, not my concern.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0236par0643	On the commission, on the basis of six counts...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0237par0644	Mr. President, there's been an argument...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0234par0645	Please, Mr. Hatibe, excuse me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0236par0646	No report, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0237par0647	Mr. President, we object to this application.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0238par0648	Mr. Chancer, you're doing it with violence, with force, with algebra.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0237par0649	No, sir, what does it have to do with violence?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0238par0650	You're blocking the presidency.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0239par0651	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0238par0652	Mr. President, not like this!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0653	The invasion of the bench, please take your seat! Please sit down, dear.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0241par0654	Mr. President, this isn't over.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0655	No, it's over. Why don't you stop, honey? Don't argue.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0242par0656	Mr. President, Mr. Internal Affairs Commission has made a statement.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0657	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0242par0658	We object to that explanation. You didn't see this before...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0243par0659	There's been a formal debate, and it's over, and it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0660	We had a two-way discussion, we closed it. What else do you want me to do?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0242par0661	Mr. Internal Affairs Commission has made a statement.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0662	It's over, sir. I promised Hatibe and the Minister will speak, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0242par0663	Not like this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0664	There's no way...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0244par0665	You did the same thing yesterday.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0666	No, I didn't do the same thing yesterday. Why is it the same thing...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0244par0667	You brought Mr. Zenderlioğlu here. You promised him as we speak.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0668	Mr. Günal, what is this violence? What is this rage of yours? It's not clear.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0244par0669	It's disrespectful!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0670	Don't call me Mahu! Please!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0244par0671	Out of respect for us.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0672	No, I have no disrespect for anyone, sir. And I'm very careful with the sentences, and everyone has to be careful.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0245par0673	How are you going to do it with this noise? We say, look, the President of the Internal Affairs Commission has made a statement. (AK PARTY clapping in rows!), Noises in CHP and MHP rows)
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0674	It's none of my business, sir. I'll sit here till morning, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0246par0675	Sit down, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0676	I'll sit down, and you'll be occupying it. I'm not taking a break.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0247par0677	Not like this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0678	Well, that's not polite! That's not proper!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0248par0679	Don't threaten me, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0240par0680	Then wait.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0248par0681	Mr. President, why are you threatening me? Don't take any breaks, if you want, until morning.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0249par0682	The Internal Affairs Commission has made a statement. On this explanation...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0250par0683	Mr. President, is that the way it is?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0684	When you're talking about it, you express all your objections.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0249par0685	The Commissioner has made a statement. We need to discuss this statement.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0686	No, sir, that's not the way it works.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0252par0687	There's no decision made, sir. There's no decision-making.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0688	I've decided, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0252par0689	No, no. No. There's no decision-making. The decision-making business is not held in Parliament.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0253par0690	You can't just ignore everyone and say what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0691	No, no, no, no. I don't know why I should ignore it. I don't ignore anyone, no.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0253par0692	We've been talking for two hours, which one did you consider?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0693	I've promised every man who raises his hand, every man who enters the system, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0254par0694	Mr. President, is it enough to promise?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0695	What am I supposed to do? No, what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0254par0696	We need to discuss the commissioner's statement.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0697	I gave my opinion, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0254par0698	It's not your opinion, it's the commissioner's opinion...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0255par0699	Don't insist on a mistake, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0700	No, sir, there's no mistake.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0256par0701	Mr. President, we're not discussing the decision-making business here; we're discussing the undeclared business, not the report.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0257par0702	The Commissioner has made a new statement, and we need to evaluate him.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0703	Sir, any one who opens his mouth has the right to answer.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0257par0704	Don't look at yourself like that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0705	Mr. Shandır, please talk this way from yesterday, Mr. Shandır, there has to be an end to this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0257par0706	Mr. President, the President of the Commission has brought an opinion to an argument. We're not going to discuss this, what are we going to discuss?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0707	It's been discussed, sir. It's been discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0257par0708	Without arguing, I mean, what kind of...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0709	Yes, I promise you after the speech of Husamettin Zenderlioğlu. If not, it's all right, sir. There's nothing I can do.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0257par0710	Mr. President, please end this discussion. Not if you continue this discussion before it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0711	We're arguing this way from yesterday, sir. Mr. Shandır, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0257par0712	I mean, there's got to be an end to this argument. Look, Mr. President, there are seven legal proposals...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0251par0714	Mr. Zenderlioglu. Please, Mr. Zenderlioglu...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0258par0716	Mr. President, there's no room to talk. How's he gonna talk? Mr. Zenderlioglu, come here, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0259par0718	Take a break. Call the president.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0719	Well, I don't care if all the members of the General Assembly get together.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0720	That's not the right attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0721	It's the right attitude. I had you debated from yesterday, in my clear opinion, that if I had the authority, I could have sent you away.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0722	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0723	I told you, sir, there's nothing I can do. Mr. Zenderlioğlu, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0725	The President of the Commission has made a statement, and this needs to be negotiated.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0726	No, you say you pass with BDP, Mr. Sakik of BDP says you pass with MHP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0727	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0728	Oh, please, these are hurtful things.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0729	You're doing the wrong thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0730	These are personalizing. Please, sir, take your seats.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0732	Mr. President, you're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0733	I'm not wrong, sir. I think I did the right thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0261par0734	The President of the Internal Affairs Commission has made a statement. This statement has brought us a new situation, and we need to discuss it. Why don't you say no? As vice president of the group.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0735	That's not the way, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0262par0736	Mr. President, we're not discussing the commission's decision right now. So, there's no report. It's not in matter, it's in matter. What kind of a thing is that? What kind of a disgrace is that?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0738	Mr. Zenderlioğlu, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0263par0739	Why do you insist, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0740	I'm doing my duty, sir. I insist on doing my duty.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0263par0741	Mr. President, why are you making demands?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0742	It's out of the question if he's giving orders. It's not in the way, sir, it's not in the way. Now it's really going to be talked about. On top of that, you say anything for 20 minutes on behalf of your party group, sir. [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from CHP and MHP rows]] Yes, sir, you give the motions when you're in the material, you've already given them, you say the words you want for five minutes in the motions, sir. No one, no deputy president, in all the speeches or speeches in the motions... [[Noises]] You've been told, sir, you've been told, you've been told. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0264par0747	Mr. President, a commissioner can't talk or make a motion about something he didn't write the opposition thing about. You just confessed to the right of the commissioners to make a motion. In that case, my commissioner...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0748	I didn't confess, I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0264par0749	You just did, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0750	What did I just say, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0264par0751	You're right. You said you had a right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0265par0752	There's been a lot of procedural debates about the same thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0753	You're expressing your own opinion, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0266par0754	Mr. President, the President of the Commission says that we report from the subcommittee...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0755	Sir, say your words on the basis.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0266par0756	That's not the point!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0757	Please, Your Honor. Everything's been discussed, sir, through the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0266par0758	I mean, how do you open a law without a report to negotiate?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0267par0759	Mr. President, what does the Civil Code say? Apart from the issues in the report's text that the General Assembly stated were abstentions or inconsistencies...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0760	Mr. Zenderlioğlu, are you coming?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0268par0761	Mr. President, take a break.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0260par0762	Mr. Zenderlioğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0269par0763	Mr. President, I can't speak in this environment, the bench is occupied.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0270par0764	The bench is empty. Come talk to me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0271par0765	The bench is occupied.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0272par0766	Where is occupied! Come on, talk to me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0767	I'll give you my word on the second row, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0274par0768	Mr. President, don't provoke me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0769	Please, there's no provocation. Sit down, count...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0274par0770	Apply the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0771	What will I apply to the Civil Code? I'm sleeping.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0274par0772	You can't rule the House on this stand, in this noise.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0773	Sir...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0274par0774	Apply the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0775	What do you mean? I'm sleeping. I'm supposed to make it work if you tell me to.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0275par0776	Mr. President, in this environment, it's about stretching the House.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0777	Of course I will. Stop the noise. Please! Mr. Zenderlioğlu, are you coming?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0275par0779	How can you be called to the stand in such a manner, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0273par0780	Mr. Zenderlioglu, please... or I'll call the next one.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0276par0781	Where are you going before you settle down?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0277par0782	Mr. President, I mean, how's he gonna talk about this noise?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0278par0783	Mr. President, in this setting, I would like to call...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0279par0784	Mr. Zenderlioğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0280par0785	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0281par0786	How will you negotiate with this noise?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0282par0787	He's trying to run the coven. It's a mission to run the House.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0283par0788	Sir, I'm trying to keep the House open. So I'm not the one who's acting out of the ordinary, you're not the president; you're the one who's doing the extraordinary thing. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0284par0791	You'll run it according to the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0285par0792	Mr. President, you need to finish this discussion. How do you start before you finish?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0284par0793	How do you start?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0286par0794	What does Civil Code 68 say?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0285par0795	End this discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0796	You're the one who's out of line, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0288par0797	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0798	We've decided, sir. We've had a two-way discussion, sir, and we've decided.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0289par0799	Look what 68 says.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0288par0800	How do you negotiate with a noise like that?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0801	Sir, sit down, sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0289par0802	Look at the Civil Charter, read it. Read 68.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0803	You take care of him, sir. I'm taking care of him, I know.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0290par0804	What are you looking at?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0805	I'm looking. Sit down, please. You'll make the noise...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0291par0807	Not with a push like that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0808	Mr. Zenderlioğlu, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0292par0809	Mr. President, I can't speak in such an environment.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0810	Mr. Zenderlioglu, if you're not coming, I'm calling in the second row. Mr. Zenderlioğlu...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0293par0812	That's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0294par0813	Mr. President, no.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0814	In second place, Mr. Menderes Türel Antalya MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] ENGIN Altay (Sinop) ▪ In this environment, it is to stretch the House.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0295par0817	I'll do the talking, then. I'll talk, I'm on the stand, come on!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0819	Mr. Günal, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0295par0820	Well, call the head of operations. I'm here, I'm on the stand. Come on!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0296par0822	Mr. President, you're turning the groups against each other.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0823	No, I'm not turning groups against each other, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0295par0824	That's not true! If there's a challenge, you'll throw it away. That's no way to impose!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0825	No, sir. We've just heard the words of Sırrı Sakık.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0295par0826	I'll talk to him, if you have a hand...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0827	Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0295par0828	I'll talk here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit04spe0287par0829	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0287par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Menderes Türel, Antalya MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0297par0004	You have to promise BDP first, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0287par0005	The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0298par0006	Mr. President, I'd like to have a formal discussion. You promised not to call the Commission and the government, it's against the rules...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0299par0007	Well, isn't it normal for them to stay here, Mr. President? Is it supposed to be like this? Is it normal for so many men to stand around the bench here?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0287par0008	Mr. Turtel, please sit down. Here you go, I promise, in favor or against?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0300par0010	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0287par0011	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0301par0012	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0302par0013	Mr. President, I want word in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0303par0014	Mr. President, we'd like a word, on behalf of our group, the Deputy Director of the Group will speak.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0304par0015	Yes, in favor of Engin Altay, Sinop MP. Here you go. Thank you. Mr. President, members of parliament, I'd like to address the ruling party's representatives of the group. You've just made it very difficult for the president to conduct the hearing here. Things could happen here that we almost didn't approve of happening.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0305par0022	Who invaded the bench?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0023	With your attitude, you won't be able to get through this or that, and neither will your budget. Sit down, take it easy.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0307par0025	Don't show off!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0026	Now, look, high-value lawmakers, patience for power, peace of mind. The opposition, of course, may be a little angry from time to time, may be a little harsh at the point of expressing reservations about what power brings, but there has been a tradition in Parliament that has been going on for years since 1920. You're turning these traditions upside down, too. Now, Mr. President, of course, in favor of your position, your decision to open a formal debate was very positive, very true. Because there was no way to speak from this bench while you were just in the negotiations of the law, and you put the preacher at risk by calling him to the stand when he had no chance to speak in good health on this stand, and you increased the tension between the MPs and the other MPs in front of the Court. I would expect you, with all your experience, to take a break before I call the preacher to the stand. Secondly...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0308par0028	How many breaks?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0029	Not like this, Congressman, you'll get your word, you'll talk from here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0308par0030	And you're making small talk, so go to sleep first.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0031	What will the opposition do if you make so much noise!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0308par0033	You always do.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0034	You're gonna sit down. Jesus Christ! On the other hand, here...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0308par0036	You always do.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0037	Mr. President, right now, you need to apply 157 to this MP. You need to apply 157 to this friend.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0309par0038	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0306par0039	Now, brother, if you don't know any of this stuff, see if you can find out who's here. Now, Mr. President, there are serious allegations. One of the allegations is that it is against the law, the Constitution, that this law should come here without being discussed in the Plan Budget Commission. It's a bet. Another claim is that this law was discussed in the Commission as six articles, but it came in thirty-some articles, in the same property. Some of the MPs called lawmakers have disappeared, so the document mentions fraud, and you, as if it didn't happen, open this environment in the House to discuss this law. You're in the wrong, your attitude, the way you're arguing, I want to say it. I'd like to invite you to pay more attention to the law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0043	Thank you. This is Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0046	Mr. President, to begin a meeting, the commission and commission were supposed to be in place, in place of the minister.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0047	That's right, we noticed, we said it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0048	Since you, the Commission and the Minister, have begun negotiations without your presence, in this case, you can't actually discuss this bill, you can't start negotiations.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0049	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0050	Right?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0051	Go ahead. No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0052	Can you meet without a commission and a minister?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0053	Look at the reports, then the commission and...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0054	Can you see him? You didn't call.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0055	Before we start talking...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0056	You didn't call. You called me here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0057	No.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0058	Look, Mr. President, you called me here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0059	I called before Mr. Tursel started talking.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0060	No, you didn't, you didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0061	You can look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0062	You didn't call. You looked after I called you to the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0063	Yeah. Okay, after you call him to the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0064	We're starting interviews. You said.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0065	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0066	In that respect, your administration is not right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0310par0067	Okay!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0068	Mr. President, right here, according to the 76th Amendment of the Civil Code, the draft or proposals rejected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot be renewed in the same legislative period until a full year has passed since the date of rejection. Now, Ali Longırmak has a law proposal, what happened? Will it be rejected or accepted? You're restricting the legislature of a congressman about what you don't give him. Also, the commissioners can't make a motion on the law unless they've written an objection in a report. You also limit the right of lawmakers to make a motion by not getting their objections on the matter. I mean, this is all illegal. If it weren't for this, would we be objecting to any of this? There's only one thing we want. We say let's have a proper report redacted, then come here. That's what we want, that's what we want. In that sense, instead of putting so much discussion in here -- a day's work, an hour's work -- if it had been done here, the subcommittee text would have been accepted, according to the redaction. If it had been said or been brought here, we would not object. He was transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission, what happened? His fate is uncertain. There would be no objection. What we're discussing today is these irregularities. An unprepared report cannot be discussed. Not when the report is looked at this way. We're not discussing a business we've decided on, we're discussing a business we haven't decided on. The report is in charge of discussing a matter that has been decided. In that regard, Mr. President, there are issues that need to be dealt with peacefully. We have something to say about the future, but first of all, we're waiting for you to take a step towards resolving our objections to the unlawful arrival of this business, and that's what we want. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In that respect, Mr. President, you cannot begin the negotiations after this session, but only after recess will you call the Commission and the Minister, and then you will call the minister to the stand, and you will have to act accordingly. First, I'll call the clerk to the stand, start the interviews...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0312par0075	Mr. Vural, thank you. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0311par0076	...then you can't call the Commissioner and the Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0312par0077	Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, of course, the whole of Turkey has seen the incident, and we really call it the Grand National Assembly of Turkey...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0313par0081	Then you turned off the TV.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0314par0082	...and he saw the position of the representatives who represented the nation in a very painful way.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0315par0084	That's low-level talk right there! You don't read, you don't know, you don't understand; don't talk!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0316par0085	You invaded the bench.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0314par0086	Dear friends, you may disagree, you may criticize, you don't have to justify everything, you don't have to agree with everything.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0317par0087	Don't talk to us! Don't talk to us!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0314par0088	You've turned this place into a playroom, so let's talk! You're doing everything, you're doing everything to yourself, you can't even handle the power talking.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0318par0089	Speak properly!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0319par0090	Don't talk to us, don't talk to us
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0318par0091	Don't shake your hand, don't shake your hand, speak properly.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0320par0092	Don't wave your fingers at me!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0093	Let us talk, let us talk. What you've been doing here since yesterday, there's been a lot of impositions...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0322par0094	So just ignore the opposition because we're a crowd, and then we'll just sit and watch. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0095	Who's doing the pushing? Is it power or opposition? I want to tell you that you have the right to block, legally speaking, you have the right to block, you can use it, but remember that we have the right to prevent, and we will use that right. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Know it, know it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0323par0096	What are you going to use it on?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0097	This is a very important, structural transformational reform that we can offer to the benefit of our country, of our nation, that will benefit Turkey, dear friends and friends of reasonable circumstances.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0324par0098	So the state system is for the benefit of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0099	We're discussing a reform on behalf of Turkey, but you, dear friends, have never entered the content of the law or entered it. Come in, you talk to him, we'll talk to him, he'll make it public.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0325par0100	How many days have we been in the Commission, not on holiday like you!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0101	But here, to turn the House into an assembly hall, to put the council on the stand, to impose upon the Council of Parliament that it does not deserve...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0325par0102	You're pushing the law, we're pushing the law?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0103	That's inappropriate. It's not exactly the tradition we're in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0326par0104	Don't insult our tradition!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0327par0105	You have a three-year tradition!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0106	Dear friends, we'll talk, we'll argue, we'll discuss everything, we'll discuss everything, but we'll speak according to the Civil Code, as far as the law and the law have given us. We don't say don't criticize, but we don't say don't invade the bench, we don't say don't criticize, but don't insult. Every speaker here has to exercise his right to speak.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0328par0107	You just invaded the bench.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0108	Look, we've been dealing with something like this since yesterday. How many times has the Presidential Court had a formal debate against the same issue?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0329par0109	Why don't you bring in a proper law and we'll discuss...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0110	How many times has he declared his opinion, and even though it's all been decided so far, our traditions, the customs of the House, the authority vested in us by the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0330par0111	What are we supposed to do, give up if the irregularity doesn't go away? Remove the impropriety, let's not argue.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0321par0112	Dear friends, you're not making me use this. Sorry, we don't give bonuses either.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0331par0114	It's coming from you. It's coming from you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0332par0115	Bring in a proper bill and we'll meet.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0331par0116	Do it like a man!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0333par0117	We do what we can here, we sit, we talk, we argue, we discuss the motions, the motions are discussed, the reasonable ones may be accepted, that the Commission report is legal, and it has been presented, as all reports of Parliamentary customs have been presented, and the President of the Commission has promised to all of the bidders here, but this has gone through the bill, and in this sense, there is nothing wrong, no injustice in the commission report. The 42nd Amendment of the Civil Charter... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...obviously edited it. Nor is there for it any opposition. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0334par0122	Thank you. Yes, Sırrı Sakık who wants to speak against you, Mr. Müsh MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0124	Mr. President, dear friends, we've been here for two days witnessing a lot of unnecessary arguments. I mean, that's not how Parliament works. We told Mr. President, so you're there physically, but you're in different places than the idea. If these applications...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0334par0125	I'll answer that, Mr. Sakik, and you'll be done talking.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0126	Please, Mr. President... because we know your practices from the past to the present. If the Peace and Democracy Party had done the same thing today, you would have lynched us.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0336par0127	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0128	It's your culture, and in the past, it's against the Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0336par0130	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0131	Please listen, listen. Yeah, you'll run this Parliament...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0337par0133	Who doesn't run the coven?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0134	So there's no regional governance here, there's no decentralisation here. If only it had happened, we would have stood behind you, but none of this exists, none of this exists. You...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0338par0135	Let go, let go!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0136	Don't raise your voice to us, we all know each other. You can afford us, but you'll know your place, and you'll know your place when you know nothing. For two days, look, we've been sitting here in Parliament for two days, watching you. What right do you have? Either you run this Parliament or Mr. President, if you don't believe...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0339par0138	Watch your language.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0335par0139	...if that doesn't appeal to your heart, your brain, if there's something negative on the Commission, you're going to put your attitude on the line, and you're going to say: You're going to be extradited. But you're not saying this, you're going to open up a legal debate here 50 times. Order debate opens one, two, three. Oh, you'll vote if you have to, and then you'll move on. You invited our teacher twice, but you didn't get her to talk. You're talking about the innocence of this bench, but you couldn't protect it, you couldn't protect it. That is your disgrace. Either you really withdraw this law, send it back to the commissions, or you run Parliament. We don't have to listen to this boatman fight of yours for two days. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0340par0142	Thank you. There's no change in my attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0341par0144	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0340par0145	One moment, Mr. Shandir, one moment... Mr. Sakek, since it's the second time, I felt the need to explain. And by that you mean the nationalist movement party I resigned from, I'm proud of my past, my lifestyle, my lifestyle, and the idea of the country I've carried in the past. (Applause from MHP rows) If my head is in the National Movement Party...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0342par0147	No, I didn't mean...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0340par0148	It's a legitimate party, but everyone knows that the whole world knows where your head is, so answer it. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Shandır.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0343par0151	How do you speak, Mr. President, what do you mean? What do you mean, where's your head? What kind of talk is that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0340par0152	No, you'll say it, and then you'll get your answer. What if you don't talk...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0344par0153	Mr. President, in the name of God, three semesters...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0343par0154	How can you talk like that?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0344par0155	Look, there's a three-term process in your charter, and you're trying to send a message somewhere for the three-term process.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0345par0156	He's your personal delusion, time will tell.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0343par0157	Mr. Secret, don't go. Is there such a vulgar debate on the Court level?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0344par0158	This isn't how Congress operates, you've taken us prisoner for two days. You really are somewhere else, yes, your body is here at this party, your soul, your mind. It's that clear.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0343par0159	You have an individual attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0346par0160	You tell me what's on your mind.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0347par0161	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0348par0162	You have no right to be so unfair to us.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0346par0163	Mr. Shandır, one moment, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0349par0165	Mr. President, there's been an argument, and this discussion is not complete, and you have made a statement regarding this discussion. You said: "The authority..."
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0346par0166	Yes, I did, and my attitude on that hasn't changed. That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0349par0167	Sir, if you'll excuse me, don't interrupt me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0346par0168	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0349par0169	You made a statement, and you said, "If I had the authority, I would send back this law."
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0346par0170	Yes, the president has no authority, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0349par0171	Now you can't start the discussion of this law that you don't think is right by declaring that you have no authority. Or you're not going to sit on that stand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit05spe0346par0172	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0346par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 338. [[Continue]] The commission and the government are in place. I've just invited Husamettin Zenderlioglu on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the whole bill. Here you go. If you're not coming, justice and...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0350par0012	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0346par0013	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0350par0014	There's something I'm expressing. You've made a statement, you've made a statement, you have to make a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0346par0015	Menderes Türel, Antalya MP on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0351par0017	Mr. President, Mr. President, please... Mr. President, who said there isn't?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0352par0019	If this law isn't right, you shouldn't see each other.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0353par0020	Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0351par0021	Mr. President, just a moment... listen, Mr. President! We have the right to speak, you can't give it to anyone else.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0353par0022	And you're accusing me of arguing... please... Here you go, Mr. Turtel.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0351par0024	Mr. President, this is the second time you've done this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0354par0025	Mr. President, I have the right to speak, you can't give it to anyone else.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0353par0026	I'll give you my word later, sir. Mr. Turtel, please come in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0028	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding law bill 338.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0356par0029	Dear friends, how will he manage with this order, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0030	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0356par0031	Mr. President, how will you manage? How will you manage with this order?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0032	We're here today to discuss a very important bill.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0357par0033	But this app of yours is neither fair nor...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0034	This bill is actually a step ahead of local government reform.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0358par0035	There was no conversation, Mr. President. How's he gonna talk in there without a conversation?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0036	We are not discussing a law on the restructuring of the state here today, nor a law on security, nor a law on resolving economic problems. The bill we're discussing is all about local government reform.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0359par0037	What reform?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0360par0038	The law of treason!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0039	The purpose of our party here is to bring better services to people, citizens, improve democracy in the local government, increase the autonomy of local government, and now make citizens everywhere from downtown to the village to the local service account. I want to underline these points precisely: This reform is actually a reform of democracy. One of the basic conditions of democracy today is the principle of placement. So public responsibility is used by the nearest office to the citizen.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0361par0041	Then why are you shutting down city halls?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0042	The village citizen will vote only for the mayor, the mayor of the city, the mayor of the town, the city council and the head of the city. With this bill, he will now be able to hold the mayor of his choice responsible for receiving public service, to answer for the service. This reform is a reform that is late in the face of rapid urbanization. In Turkey, the city population reached about 35% in the 1980s, while today it reached 80 per cent. The center of the economy is now cities. In this day and age, investments and services in the cities are also a waste of money and a waste of time and extraordinary inefficiency in the hands of ministries from Ankara. In this day and age, it is necessary for the government to be the closest to a citizen, to listen to him, to answer to him.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0362par0044	You don't even believe it yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0045	First of all, I'd like to make a brief mention to Mr. Home Secretary, who has contributed to this law, especially to our former head of local administrations, to the President of our Interior Commission, to all members of our ruling and opposition, to all the Ministerial bureaucrats, to the understanding that it is essential to the drafting of the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0363par0046	The Ministry didn't make it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0047	THE AK PARTY and its leader's political understanding and philosophy were born from success in local governments and from humility for this success. As it is known, the state philosophy of the EC PARTY is based on a structure that is dedicated to the nation of the state. The AK PARTY and its ideology first glorify man, so that the state may be exalted, so that the state may live. From this point of view, the nation has changed its positions, and the politician has changed its positions, and the political slave, and the people, who have served him. The EC PARTY and our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, never saw the service as a blessing. He's always stressed that it's the right thing to do. Precious MPs, as you know, were the first cities of Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir to be established in 1984. Between 1986 and 2000, the number was raised to 16. After that, in 2004, the EC PARTY performed a serious local government reform for the first time, thanks to the mayor's experience. In 2004, both the City Hall's Law was revised for the first time since 1934, and the area of authority for Istanbul and the southeastern municipalities was expanded as the province's border. My dear friends, this 2004 report is actually a requirement of the Council of Europe's Local Administration Autonomous Act. Turkey signed the Council of Europe's Local Autonomous Convention in 1988. This contract was approved by the Turkish Grand National Assembly in 1992 and was adopted in 93. But despite all the good intentions and preparations in this direction, the AK PARTY was expected to reform the law. In 2004, local governments reformed, despite the uncompromising stance of the opposition, then, you know, President vetos and the Constitutional Court processes. Some of the words spoken by the opposition today for this city's law were also said in the same way. Local governments were then said to be reformed for the federation in Turkey, but it has been eight years since reform, and the municipalities are in place, and Turkey is in good condition, and the unitary state structure is in good condition. Again, in the integration process of the European Union, the Law on Development Agencys, which preceded us, was introduced in our time, in 2006. In that case, the opposition has struck the same conclusion. Turkey is divided into regions. It has been said.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0364par0051	You wanted to be mayor of that opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0052	But then all the provinces line up by opposition lawmakers saying, "This is our development agency." In fact, the integration process of the Council of Europe's Local Autonomous Condition continues with this new law. The main aims of this law are to strengthen democracy at both the country and local level in Turkey, to ensure efficiency in municipal services, and to ensure better services for municipalities, as stated by reason. One of the many issues that is discussed is the matter of the referendum. The opposition says the referendum is essential, referring to the Council of Europe. But that doesn't really mean the truth. Because the European Council of Local Governments says the 5th Article of the Autonomous Condition is exactly as follows: ▪ On the borders of local governments, when legislation is within its reach and if possible...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0365par0055	Isn't that possible, Mr. Turtel?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0056	...can't be changed without prior consultation with local communities about a referendum.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0365par0057	It's not possible?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0058	So here, especially if it's possible, the term is distracted and presented to the public as if a referendum is essential.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0365par0059	Shame, shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0060	As you know, the law brings in a few innovations. The first is the largest city municipality in cities with more than 750k populations. 16 more major cities have been added to the present capital. So when we look at 13 major cities, there's no regulation for any region, the population criteria are taken into account. New districts are being established in 13 new cities. In these cities, the city's jurisdiction is expanded to the province's borders, just like Istanbul and Kopeeli. Private administrations, towns, and villages are removed in the cities. Private administration jobs are being transferred to the capital, towns and villages are turning into neighborhoods. In 52 cities without a major city, towns with fewer than 2,000 populations are turning into villages. A total of 1,582 towns and 16,082 villages are thus removed and transformed into neighborhoods. The municipality, with a total of 2,950, falls to 1,392. The number of villages descends from 34,283, to 18,201. In fact, there is a tremendous decline in the number of units. Even that makes it very clear what kind of savings and efficiency it will provide.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0365par0062	Great! That's what savings is, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0063	As to which district will be the district of the region of the region of the region of the region, the requirement for bordering and distance has been brought in. City personnel will not lose their rights in the neighborhoods. Villages are protected by forest or mera rights. In villages, municipal tax fees -- property taxes, zoning license fees, accession shares -- will not be paid for five years.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0366par0064	Real estate tax isn't being postponed, so tell me the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0065	Water costs will not exceed a quarter of the lowest water tariff for five years.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0366par0066	That's no way to give false information!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0067	The municipalities will invest 10 per cent of their income in villages that turn into neighborhoods.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0367par0068	They wrote it, he's reading it, what's he gonna do?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0069	The villages that turn into neighborhoods will have a license for buildings.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0367par0070	Don't read, don't read! Put your head up and talk!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0071	The traditional architecture for the structures will be produced, and the projects will be given to the villagers for free as a type project.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0368par0072	The zoning pardon... the zoning grant to your villas...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0073	They will be licensed to houses, livestock facilities, grocery stores, bakerys. The stockpile in the villages will be licensed. For years, our citizens who have lived in fear of falling down on their village's head will now be able to rest in peace.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0369par0074	You were building an unlicensed skyscraper!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0075	In 29 major cities, investment monitoring and co-ordination is established in the governorate to co-ordinate central administration investments, combat disaster and avoid any other problems. Therefore, there will be no gap due to the removal of private administrations.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0369par0076	What are you gonna do with 158 bids?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0077	Dear friends, with this bill, the budget share of the major cities is seriously increasing. The amount of tax collected within the capital city is now increased from five per cent to six. Furthermore, the main thing is to increase the overall budget share of 2.5 per cent to municipal municipalities and again to 4.5 per cent. While Europe is facing budget crises in America, Turkey is clearing the way for municipalities and providing more service. To illustrate a few examples, there will be an average increase of 16.06 percent in existing major cities. Erzurum is 58.80 per cent; the income of Eskişehir is 27.93 per cent; Kayseri is 25.90 per cent; İzmir 14.65; İstanbul 8.95; Ankara will experience a 5.76 per cent increase in income. In addition, there is an average revenue increase in our new capital cities of 53.67 per cent. Among these would be a municipality of southeastern People's Party (CHP) - 96,52; Aydın 53,03; Tripoli 40,39; Mardin 27.04, an average of 53.67, and a revenue increase in new major cities. Dear lawmakers, one of the most controversial issues is the closing of city municipalities. An important part of the municipality in the region, its staff, which has no income, unfortunately, are sign municipalities on paper, unable to provide services.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0370par0080	Why? You don't pay?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0371par0081	Side Hall, huh? Side Hall, huh?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0082	...they can't take services. There's the city, but there's no service. Call the qualified personnel so you can find them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0371par0083	Side Hall, huh?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0372par0084	Did the children who worked there come from Greece? The employed workers and officers there are Greek children? Shame... shame...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0085	In many of our municipalities, when we can't find a city planner, an architect, an engineer...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0372par0086	Did the mayor's salary come to your attention?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0087	...only in some of those municipalities, while employing only one mayor as a staff, will now be allowed to receive services from closed municipalities, municipal municipalities and urban municipalities.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0373par0088	Why are you turning it off?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0374par0089	Why do you close villages?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0090	In fact, we're not shutting down these municipalities here, we're opening the way for them to be able to get services from the city's municipality and from the city's municipality, which turns from city to neighborhood. We're promoting these municipalities. We are the AK PARTY, the party of service, rights, rights. We serve the people, not the people. I ask you, Mr. President, what is it you want? They say: "Don't close our city." So, President, can you pay their wages?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0375par0093	How many Antalyans are in debt?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0376par0094	Ask Tekirova, Tekirova. What did he do with the money?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0095	The answer is, of course: Mr. President, we can't pay the wages. How should we serve? Thus, while these municipalities can't find investments and budgets for the ministry and over 90 per cent of the city's municipalities in Turkey are in this situation, we still can't figure out what it means to say, "Don't shut down these municipalities today."
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0375par0096	How will you deliver service to Gazipaşa? How will you bring service to Kasa? You couldn't serve the center of Antalya. How will you take it?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0097	Recently, the new practice in Italy has actually set a good example for all of us.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0377par0098	Let's talk about the 158 bids, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0099	In Italy, the number of provinces, 86, was reduced to 51, with a decree signed by the technocratic government led by Monti.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0378par0100	Italy's bankrupt, and you're going bankrupt?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0379par0101	Yeah, is this Italy?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0102	After Italy's plight, we are forced to do so today so as not to have a fearful dream, and we close the municipality of 1,582 districts. Turning villages into neighborhoods is one of the best things, because village chiefship is a unit that's already out of the question. That's how village chiefs become neighborhood chiefs.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0380par0104	Will you relieve Tekirova?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0105	Our villages will not lose, but they will grow. In this way, it is clear that villages will receive better services because it has been conditioned by this bill to split 10 per cent so that municipalities can serve in areas that turn from village to neighborhood. In addition, as the villager's agricultural rights are protected, the main problems will be resolved with the registration of the building supply of zoning opportunities. Now that the village will have land and fields, villages will be worth more, peasants will prosper.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0381par0106	You're fooling the peasant too!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0107	With this bill, some opposition started putting old records in the record player and playing. Some of them say: "We are going to the federation. " Those who say so may look at examples abroad. There are regional parliaments in many countries.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0382par0108	Is this separatist terrorism or launch?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0109	So, I don't want to count on you guys one by one, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to point out one thing. Again, in a session where development agencies are debated under this blessed roof, Republican People's Party Tekirdağ MP Enis Tobaccoclu says, "A regional governance system is envisioned -- this in 2006 -- I share with you the indicators that lead us to this judiciary. Turkey is a prerequisite for the federative structure, such development agencies.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0383par0111	He's right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0112	But then, you see, Mr. Feridun Ayvazoglu, MP of CHP, says with a question proposal in 2008, in 2006: "When will our region set up a development agency that we believe will contribute to our national development? Will you then think about it, or will you not? Can you explain why?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0384par0113	Mayor, where are those so-called circumcised children? You do it every year. Where are these kids?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0114	The CHP MPs, who have said they are going to the federation, have then addressed these demands with questions that the development agencies have not been established in their province.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0384par0115	You bought miles of balloons, where are they? Where's the money?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0116	Again, Mr. Reşat Right, MP of the HHP, says that the province of Tokat has been giving great migration recently, are you planning to build the Tokat Development Agency to identify the needs of the province of Tokat, to identify investment areas and to do this kind of work?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0385par0117	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0118	First, those who say "federation" and then say "Why don't you set up a development agency for my knowledge?" they also experience a serious conflict within themselves by holding the government responsible.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0386par0119	Why are you shutting down Side Hall?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0120	I know very well that those who are having these discussions today will come again in this Parliament with their motions to ask questions. Make my province a great city. They will line up.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0387par0121	You borrowed Antalya until 2008, so you lost the election!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0388par0122	No one's against the big city, no one's against the big city, we're against the regional government.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0123	Now that we've gotten used to these contradictions, we think our people are getting used to them. It's said that we have very large city boundaries. It's bigger than Switzerland. In Antalya, the coastline is 400 miles [640 km], how will a municipality manage it?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0389par0125	Why are you shutting down the shield?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0126	Today, the governor's office is already doing the same thing with special management. However the governorship does it, with its reinforced economy, the municipalities will do even better. In fact, because the mayor has an obligation to be elected against the electorate, a lot of running will have to do more service.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0389par0127	In that case, speak up.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0128	Dear friends, this bill brings election advantage to the EC PARTY. Because we make it very clear that in our political history, there are many examples of election law turning against power, and we know that. Polls have already shown that the EC PARTY does not need such things to win elections. Those who can't produce projects, can't provide services, can't find time for entertainment, have already found an excuse for election defeats.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0390par0129	Shame, shame! Watch your mouth, Mendeles Turtel!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0389par0130	Please explain who's having fun!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0131	Once again, they fear the people, once again they despise the people, the citizens of the village, the citizens of the city.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0391par0132	Where are the balloons, balloons? You paid millions of lira, where are the balloons?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0133	May God set things right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0392par0134	May God give you wisdom. You bring in the law to divide the country, then you talk to other people!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0135	They still haven't learned from this many election defeats, they still haven't been able to make a self-criticism, they're still looking for the public to blame for defeat. This elitist mentality, this guardian's mentality, will take away the right of a citizen, a peasant, a poor beggar, even to be a voter, and if they can, they will choose only in Istanbul. In 1930, Turkey will make North Korea, if it can.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0393par0136	Come on... shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0137	They stayed in wardrobe Ataturkers.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0393par0138	Are you still in the 30s?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0139	They don't read history, they don't look at the world.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0394par0140	Come on, I'll teach you history!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0141	But, people, from God, from this distinguished mind, is smarter and more distant.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0395par0142	How many hours did you wait at Baykal's door?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0143	Let us not forget that the EC PARTY has made many reforms in Turkey, has made silent revolutions, has set an example for the world. He will now lead this reform. Thus, this law will pass the age of municipal service. With this law, Turkey will jump in the race for civilization. With this law, the villages will rise, the villagers will prosper. With this law, citizens will be able to serve in the province, in the district, in the village, in the village.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0396par0145	We shall see, if Allah wills, you will see, and so will we!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0355par0146	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0397par0148	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0398par0149	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0397par0150	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0399par0151	Then why did you want to run for president of the CHP?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0397par0152	Congressman, please... Mr. Hamzacebi asked for a word.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0400par0154	Don't lie, don't lie!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0401par0155	Baikal is alive...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0400par0156	Go ask Olcay Baykal. Find out the truth!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0401par0157	Baikal is alive...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0400par0158	They called me. I didn't go. Go learn from Mrs. Olcay. Your life is a lie.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0402par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0403par0160	Mr. Zenderlioğlu, just a second... I promised Mr. Hamzacebi. Just a second... will you sit down, please? Maybe I can invite him to the stand. Please... I didn't announce you, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0404par0161	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Speaker, it would then bring the Republican People's Party to the federation in 2004 regarding the local management arrangement the Justice and Development Party wanted to make. In this bill, Mr. Speaker said that the Republican People's Party had proposed the idea that the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0403par0162	Mr. Hamzacebi, please. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0404par0164	Mr. President, you're not giving me two minutes, you're giving me three.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0403par0165	You know, the way we do it is always two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0404par0166	You give me three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0403par0167	Here, I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0404par0170	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have noticed that due to the fact that the Congressman is a new member of Parliament this semester, his background information is incomplete, and he has tried to inform the General Assembly with incomplete information. If only he'd asked his brothers, he'd get better information; he'd look at the transcripts, he'd look at the Plan and Budget Commission reports, he'd get better information. The law on development agencies was adopted in 2006, which was discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission at the time. It's a bill of law that we work hard as a Republican People's Party Group. It was a model in 167 countries around the world at the time. It depends on what intent you apply; if you apply that law with the intention of the federation, Turkey will lead to the federation, no, it's a very useful institution if you don't apply it with the intention of the federation. We, the Republican People's Party Group, have also expressed a positive view of that law. All this can be seen from the Plan and Budget Commission reports. I don't mind Mr. Speaker acting out of his attempt to frame the Republican People's Party, so Mr. Speaker is inexperienced, no doubt, will have experience here, he will learn. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Second, the arrangement the AKP wanted to make in 2004 is an arrangement that has nothing to do with the local government law. The constitutional powers of direct central government were an arrangement that tried to transfer it to local governments without any change in the Constitution, and you know that very well. As a matter of fact, this law, adopted in Turkey's Grand National Assembly despite the opposition of the Republican People's Party, has been extradited by the President of the period to the Grand National Assembly, and you have never attempted again. You've listened to what Mr. Necdet Sezer said, you've earned it, and you haven't even been around it since. In that case, it's a concept that I can explain with lack of experience, in the most optimistic terms, by lying to the Republican People's Party in connection with the old, in the wrong way. I recommend that the congressman examine the transcripts better, listen to his friends, his brothers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0405par0176	Thank you. [[Continue]] Yes, it is Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0406par0184	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy, under the Law on Local Government of Metropolitan City, 338. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in fact, this process that we've been through is a very critical and difficult process. As you all know, the hunger strike, which has been carefully watched by the public for nearly two months from September 12, 2012, has completed its 57th day today. Whatever these people's political views, their demands are human, conscientious. So it's obvious that our people, who are starving for 57 days and 57 nights, are on a hunger strike. They were involved in this act of their own free will. This is a declaration of will. With a hunger strike launched with 714 men in 666 prisons, they seek to solve the problem by putting their young bodies to death in every prison with tens of thousands of free prisoners, whose numbers -- starting from November 5, 2012. The start of this hunger strike didn't just happen. This hunger strike began after a period of time. Their demands and purposes were listed as follows: The removal of the lockdown, the giving of education and defence in its native language, is the official expression of itself in its native language in public. Proposals and demands are so reasonable and democratic that the government can first contribute to the conclusion of the hunger strike. He's acting the other way around. Don't throw away human life. I'll leave it to your conscience. You have to listen to this screaming from the prison. In my visit to Bingol and Bitlis Prison, the situation of the prisoners was not pleasant; they were in a state of loss of weight, vomiting blood, hypotension, and dehydration. The government is responsible for every citizen who dies in prison, and no one can save themselves from that responsibility. We don't want coffins coming out of prisons. It's a disaster. The right proposal of political prisoners is that prisoners seek a solution for peace by freeing their hearts. Furthermore, by putting their young bodies to death, by melting themselves to shreds, by proving that they have no other means but their lives, let my people live as brothers, let one brother shoot another brother, let no war stop, no blood flow... • The AKP government continues to insist and challenge in unresolvedness, and ignores the demands of the prisoners. What in God's name is that? Can these things be solved by pressure, a threat? Let's not watch these deaths. It is our call to all those who have a conscience, who have love for people, who do not want war, tension, who want to live in a brotherly and human way in this country: Give your contribution in this regard; let us not be insensitive, raise your voice, and contribute to peace and brotherhood. Let's end this problem before it gets deeper and deeper. Mr. President, the law of local governments, which is currently brought to the General Assembly and presented, is the continuation of a law that resembles the laws of the coup of September 12th. The law before this is based on Article 127 of the Constitution of 1982. So the spirit of the 127th article is still in existence. It's also a freaking law. The purpose of this law is that a special form of governance can be formed in the great settlements. With its understanding -- in accordance with its rule -- was founded in 1984, primarily in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, and a general was brought to the presidency of each municipality, a general. In 1986-1988, five other municipalities were included in the capital city because they were attracted to the Rant Front. After 1993, eight major city municipalities were added, and 16 main cities today were named after the city's municipality. What is the advantage of these main city municipalities from other central municipalities? Now, according to the population rate, the number of major city municipalities is requested to be added to the 29. What will the new law and increase the number of city municipalities change, Mr. Secretary, if I may ask? It's not enough to just change names, it's not economic growth, it's not service, it's growing one, it's shrinking the other. The problem isn't solved here by distracting a citizen, and there's no use in deception. Amenna, if it's supposed to serve more with authority, but it's not. Not with authority, but with more talent, it can be done. To form 13 new capital municipalities, the new law is a law of purely Machiavellian understanding. Public interests are out of the question here. One advantage of increasing the number of the city's municipalities is that millions of people keep the game in one place collectively. The vote of this disproportionate power will be reflected in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whether it wants to or not. Of course, no one can discuss the role of major city municipalities. In essence, this is the development of neoliberal policies, which have a purpose for privatisation, even if the change of laws is being done under the transformation. Everyone knows that when the infrastructure of their policies is taken with their economic decisions on January 24th and forced into practice, the regime of September 12th has reached its rescue. In the process, the World Bank partnered to facilitate municipal services by offering investment assistance to large city municipalities. Not only that, the municipality was subcontracted to speed up municipal services. The Metropolitan municipality also managed to get out of the service sector with this administration. Therefore, the understanding of local government for share-in-rant has increased. How can I get my share of the rant cake? With this law, the barriers to urban transformation will be lifted, and, oh, come, my joy, come. What will the citizen say when he sees this theater? My house is gone, my property is gone... Here, the AKP government is trying to establish its power based on this foundation. Because the law aims to speed up migrations due to low-density warfare, the metropolitan cities. The goal is to privatise all municipal services. Population criteria, facial measurements may not be enough for such a project. Such a law, which wants to be carried out regardless of the social, cultural, economic demands of the settlement, can cause problems and unrest in society. Management is not only a public phenomenon, it is also a concept of space for the private sector. The developing technology has not made any changes in our modern, private, social lives. In addition to planning these requests, administrative and political planning is an obstacle to the use of democratic rights and freedoms. Expansing the major city limits and reducing the powers of municipal municipalities will be a problem again. This vision will develop in favour of the ruling party, which holds the great city municipality. At the same time, we consider the removal of city municipalities in order to strengthen the centre to be the biggest injustice to citizens to build villages in neighborhoods. This law means nothing more than to prevent the public from directly joining the administration. Here, it's about creating differences of thought. Really, what good is it if the law lifts the private administration, transfers its powers to another institution? Who can explain it to us? The investment monitoring centre will establish a co-ordination centre, authorising governors to oversee local governments. What do you intend to do with this increase in authority? What does that mean? Now, where does the AKP government stand, like this, in this statement? This law is in the form of a law that completely suspends the democratic function. The so-called investment monitoring centre will carry out the management's work in the country. Can you imagine the opposite? According to the law, seeing resources in place to ensure efficiency in all activities, overseeing setbacks, guiding. There's no such thing as a law. The law could only cover the borders of the province, fill the void of the private administration, or it would be more meaningful to turn it into an administrative, political, investment coordination observatory. But unfortunately, since the AKP government has seen all these developments, if he thinks he's going to make himself strong in local governments with this project, he's fooled. The main aim of the AKP government, the capital city municipalities, is to prevent the local understanding of governance, the democratic autonomy project from being blocked by the neoliberalist project. It's to nullify the democratic autonomy project developed by the Democratic Society Congress. But the project that we want to develop, not just in our region, but in Turkey's metropolitan areas, is the democratic autonomy that we want them to disqualify, which is the goal. In other areas, however, it is a project to seek out the formation of close to 20 percent of the region and to eliminate the deep cliffs there. Our democratic autonomy project is not only a model of local governments, it's also a brotherhood project and a strengthening project. The model of local governments defined by this project is a national, class, sexual, ethnic, cultural genius, and is the same as the revolutionary democratic transformation programme. A strategic project, a democratic autonomy project, means public self-management. With this model, municipalities will basically need nothing from the government. Experience, creativity, management, experience, gain, as it develops, there will be stronger and stronger municipalities as it gains. The AKP would like to develop a model similar to the democratic project. If it had strengthened democracy by strengthening the most powerful village and neighborhood organisation of local governments, parliaments would have had a say in its direct participation in the truth. Unfortunately, this organizational model is feared. Democratic development, of course, illuminates the public. You fear the organization of the people, you fear the future. It's futile, whatever you do, whatever project you're bringing in, there's no time for fear anymore. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit06spe0407par0206	Thank you, Mr. Zenderlioglu. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0407par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with bill 338. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0408par0004	There are not enough majority to negotiate.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0407par0005	Sir...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0408par0006	It's not just enough for the decision, it's not enough for the negotiation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0409par0007	The General Assembly isn't in place.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0408par0008	The TVs are off, too. What do you say to who?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0409par0009	The consciences are sealed, the eyes, the eyes, the eyes, the ears, the hearing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0410par0010	On top of the whole bill, Sadir Durmaz, MP of the National Movement Party Group, has asked for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Durmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0411par0013	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the Council of Metropolitan Law Act 338, which we are discussing. On behalf of the High Council, the National Movement Party Group and myself, I salute you. Today, here you are discussing an illegal bill against the Civil Code and the Constitution. As the National Movement Party, we have not been thirsty in the face of injustice, we have taken every opportunity and we will continue to use it to prevent that law on the legitimate ground. Dear lawmakers, when we look at this bill that we're discussing, the municipality of 1.582 is taken into the capital city and some of its population is shut down on the grounds that its population is less than 2,000. In addition, with special administrations in 29 cities, 16,082 villages in these provinces have been stripped of their corporate personality and transformed into neighborhoods. 29 cities are expanded to have a municipal property border, and 23 new districts are established in 13 cities that will be new cities. The general reason for the bill appears to include sloganistic statements aimed at deceiving and deceiving our nation, as you have done in so many arrangements in the past. What are these: the integrity of the plan, the service presentation on the optimal scale, the equal and fair distribution of services, the efficient use of resources, are being tried to deceive our nation. None of these reasons reflect the truth. These are the words of the porter who is willing to camouflage your true intentions. Today, the High Council is discussing a matter of historical importance. Because the issue of the bill on the agenda is to decide whether to abandon the unitary structure under Turkey's administration to become a federative or partially federative structure. Dear lawmakers, this bill contains many discrepancies to the Constitution. The state's unitary quality is being organised by a severe blow to the municipal administration system, which violates Article 126 of the Constitution. In the same way, the province, municipality and village legal personalities defined by Article 127 of our Constitution shall be lifted by law and changed to status. This is also true of the forest villages mentioned in Articles 169 and 170 of the Constitution. In addition, the Constitutional Court ruled that the historical importance of municipalities in tourism area and its centers cannot be closed as a result of the talks with the Constitutional Court on the district of Metropolitan Municipality No. 5747 earlier in 2008 and the amendment to some Laws. This bill was not discussed in the Constitutional Commission even though it was directly related to the integrity and structure of the constitution's established administration. Likewise, the fact that this bill, which will bring $3 billion additional burden to the budget, has not been discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission is a result of AKP's idea of carbolic politics and sub-stair production. The most important reason for the bill is that the plan's integrity is a hoax, and according to the legislation already in effect, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is authorized to make environmental plan at the level of basin and region scale, covering more than one province. In addition, the environmental order plan can be co-ordinated in the governor's co-ordinatorship on a county scale with the municipality and the province's private administration. Furthermore, according to the existing Building Law, the plan can be taken into the area when requested villages are requested to ensure integrity. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism has the authority to ensure the integrity of the plan, if it will, under the law governing its establishment and duties. If all of this is not enough, it is also possible to make additional arrangements to ensure the exclusive integrity of the plan. Dear lawmakers, rural management is carried out by separate expert units all over the world. The purpose of the municipalities is to serve cities and urban areas, so the goal of its per capita service in investments, in other words, is to increase the cost of service per capita, as it expands towards rural areas, villages; therefore, the voter in the rural area can ignore it, and services may not function as effectively as the current situation exists. For example, mayors will be able to prioritize their service to an apartment building downtown, instead of delivering services to a village 250km away from the centre. AKP spokesman often give examples of Istanbul and Kopeeli to defend the bill. It is an irrational and irrational assessment to hold the Gebze (Gebze) of the province of Bahçasaray. Another issue is the decline in investment spending, despite significant increases in municipal debt in recent years. Given this, the effectiveness of the current system is already controversial, and the content that will satisfy these concerns is not included in the bill. There are also significant increases in municipal debt to the market, and the cost of service is rising due to the lack of cash to pay their debts. Sadly, there is no arrangement in the bill to satisfy them. We can provide an example of the failure of the Ankara subway and its transfer to the Transport Ministry. The municipal municipalities remain dysfunctional and dysfunctional, as special powers are collected in major cities in the current urban construction. When the Metropolitan status first entered force in our country, the city's municipality was envisioned as a co-ordinator, but it eventually became an executive and authority. Taking into account the existing 16 urban applications, it is known that the disputes between the capital and the municipalities of the districts are being carried out into the courts. It is clear to everyone that these negatives of municipalities, which are on the same political line with each other, have far more dire consequences for municipalities of different political parties. In today's implementation, the capital city municipalities have placed the major city municipalities as branch municipalities, and the arrangement to be brought as if it were not enough is intended to be subject to a worse situation than the municipalities of the municipalities of the district. Instead of making an arrangement to eliminate these defects, provisions that would weaken the district municipalities further and render them dysfunctional. Dear lawmakers, the bill removes 16,082 villages' corporate personality and leads to serious social, economic, and cultural challenges. With villages turned into neighborhoods, not only are the village assets belonging to the village's corporate personalities seized, but the village's resistance to protecting the village's material and spiritual values is being destroyed and the ground for looting and plundering. With this arrangement, which will remove their heritage, memories, and spiritual scars, the village will be subject to the same taxes and obligations as the city's people, and will lead to poverty and evaluation of villages. Agriculture fields will be opened, already undermining agriculture and livestock will be destroyed, while farmers who already have no tea money in their pocket, who eat the olive at their table, who have a good waist with the last raises, and who can't go into their fields because they can't put diesel in their tractor will be forced into the city and will leave the harvest. Why do our villages lift with this bill? No, there's not enough explanation on the grounds of the law. To remove one of the oldest and model local government units in the world by surpriseing thousands of village rulers -- almost -- with no significant financial burdens and no social problems -- is a manifestation of the government's idea of civil coup. Another surprise in this arrangement is that villages whose population is less than 500 will not even be an isolated neighborhood. Government representatives say: "Personal rule is not the kingdom of the village. " With a grant close to social security, the Mukhtar is a strawberry man looking for a cure every day in government offices and party doors to solve the problems of the village and the villagers. While we, the National Movement Party, have made an election declaration on the minimum wage level of the chiefs' salaries, the AKP sees their salaries as high as social security premiums. Precious lawmakers will now pay property tax for the village house, the field, the land, the property tax for the land, and will pay a 100 per cent increase in real estate tax on the city's tariff; 10 per cent of those taxes will contribute to the protection of immovable cultural assets. The villager will pay the garbage tax and will pay a 25 percent increase environmental cleaning tax on the city's schedule. The peasant will pay for drinking and using water, even the water he uses from the well. The tradesmen and artists in the village will rise in taxes and obligations. The tradesman in the village will no longer be taxed in a simple manner, but in a real way; so, the tax will increase, and every three months the VAT will pay income tax every three months, and the income tax will be declared every three months; he will pay the stamp tax for each statement, the author will keep the safe, the book, and he will work with the financial advisor, and he will pay the fee. The register fee and annual dues will also increase by 100 per cent. There will be no exceptions to the income tax paid to the village chiefs and village clerks, rangers, imams, guards and so on, as well as to the wages paid from the village budget and the wages of the farmer's property keepers. In addition, it will not be moved to villages and village troops and will be exempted from property tax and institutional tax for businesses. Dear lawmakers, there will be more taxes and fees for the village. Villagers will also be subject to the tax, tuition and participation shares that I will now list in the City Insurance Act: environmental cleaning tax, advertising tax and advertising tax, entertainment tax, telecommunication tax, electricity and air gas consumption tax, fire insurance tax; occupation waste, insurance permit for work on holiday days, expiration, resource water tuition, demand for inspection and inspection, measure and scale equipment for examination, building construction fees, construction fees, zoning fees, disbursement tax, expiration and provision for designing plans, hazp, hazporing and access to construction facilities, etc. Twenty-six separate taxes and mortars, our peasant. It is clear that this bill will not bring good results, it will destroy our villagers, it will evacuate our villages, towns and counties. Despite AKP's persecution of the villagers, our party believes that the policy of the village community must be established and that it is important to build agricultural cities from villages, according to the principle of the. Dear lawmakers, under the bill, the municipality of 1.582 is being abolished, and the right to participate in and accountability which is of course the right of the people of the town to participate in the administration, as its access to service has been blocked. In addition, our citizens who live in these closed towns are deprived of the ability to receive service from the nearest unit, quickly, economically, and quality. Especially in rural areas, growing up like a spring around it, it turns into a mirage, unfortunately. Dear MPs, as the National Movement Party, we have absolutely no objection to strengthening local governments, increasing their service and financial capacity, making some of our provinces a major city for this purpose. However, AKP's goal does not include implementing reforms, ensuring that local governments benefit more from resources and resources and meeting the needs available in this area. With the Metropolitan Legislature, the foundation of the federal state model is wanted. This is a fundamental contrast with the principles and foundations of the Turkish administration system. As a matter of fact, the municipal administration system will be severely injured, as the planned arrangement will expand the city limits to cover the city limits. The withdrawal of the city's municipal borders to the city limits will unlock a dangerous place, as it will be the last stop before the transition to the regional management and state system. Without a doubt, calls for democratic autonomy and autonomy based on the region which is imposed by separatist and destructive elements will be answered and Turkey will be taken one step at a time to divide. In this way, PKK demands will be met in advance, so that Imralı and the Kandil network will soon be able to obtain the concessions they expect through the AKP. The government's interest in meeting with the Imran killer, its search for understanding with the Kandil, and its new Oslo intentions are all a natural extension and reflection of the process. A Prime Minister's face, who strongly denies talks with the Imran criminal, should be seen as a strategic position for our nation's regression, separatism, to achieve a portrait of the prime minister today, who is not afraid to say it publicly and open the negotiating card. Everyone, especially the AKP, is obliged to act responsible, sensitive and morally, so that Turkey will not be condemned to a dark environment and its national existence will not be distributed on the geographical plane. Therefore, the government must return wrongly, not play with the Turkish nation's fate and take the bill off Turkey's agenda. The capital city law bill, which is an open invitation to the problem of regime and governance, is considered by many experts to be a violation of the Constitution. In the event that this arrangement is under law, no one must ignore that the courts set up for others today will also be set up for those who cause it when the political accounts turn upside down. Dear lawmakers, with this bill being debated, all the areas with expertise and experience, academics, politicians, bureaucrats, writers who have already supported the AKP, against this bill, the villagers who have been taken away from them, against the mayors of the province, against the civil assembly members, against the AKP agencies, against the mayors of the AKP, against the AKP district, despite some AKP MPs and ministers who may not be able to express it here. Hulasa, a large percentage of society is against this law. So, who says yes to this law? Mr. Prime Minister says yes, and the PKK and its political extensions don't work, but it says yes. What reason is there to associate Mr. Prime Minister with the PKK in this arrangement, which all communities oppose, which will bring our country into division? The fact that the Prime Minister is so persistent raises suspicion that there's a lot of pressure, a lot of threats and blackmail that we don't know about. Dear lawmakers, once again, as the National Movement Party, we are not opposed to the building of cities in the capital city, we are opposed to the expansion of regional governance by expanding the city's municipal property limits, we are opposed to the removal of the legal personality of villages, and we are opposed to the closure of municipal municipalities in the province. With these thoughts, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0412par0042	Thank you. Gökhan Morning, Ankara MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0413par0045	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have made a commitment to convey the opinion of the Republican People's Party regarding the Law on the Amendment to the Laws and Laws of 338 rows. Although the name of this bill is a major city municipal bill, it is technically called a city bill. Because the capital cities were declared by the Law Code 3030, the first in 1984, and the last in 2000. Turkey has 16 major cities. Now, you want to make 29 major cities, so you want to cross city boundaries and city limits. Therefore, its technical name should be first noted that it is the entire city. In the beginning and first, I would like to say that the Republican People's Party favours giving more authority and more resources to local governments, but, of course, in doing so, the properties of Turkey's unitary structure must be carefully considered. Now, we're looking at the general reason for the AKP bill, a story continues to be told, and this story says that we're doing local management reform. You're shutting down 1,682 out of 2,950 municipalities in Turkey, and you're doing local government reform by shutting down one of the two municipalities. The AKP spokesman also says: "So we're making a deal." Ya, close 1,500 of this 1,582, but 82 would be a better saver. How can I handle national education if schools close down? What's the difference with your understanding? My dear friends, from 34,500 villages, you're shutting down 16,082. And you're talking about the fact that you've done local government reform because you've eliminated villages in 29 cities as a local government unit in our Constitution. Anyway, the AKP always says the opposite of what it wants to do. So I'd like to say that this is not a surprise to me. Now, to understand what AKP is trying to do today, let us briefly review what it has done in the recent past. Friends, you have structured the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism by releasing two KHKs within a month and a half. The first was July 4, 2011, the second was August 17, 2011. The Minister of Environment and Urbanism is now both president and Minister of Environment and Urbanism in this country, the super mayor and -- let's make his ears ring -- an earthquake expert, you know. There will be no more earthquakes before the second earthquake, then enter your homes. He is a minister who has been called, and we know that our citizens died in the second earthquake. Now, I think it would be futile to expect local government reform from an understanding that a municipality, which has gathered its powers in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, has ordered it to ask its permission for urban transformation. Now, is this sample sufficient for AKP's execution? Absolutely not. Another important Minister sits in line, Mr. Idris Naim Şahin, the Home Secretary. İdris Naim Şahin issued a general order on 24 April 2011, and you tell him that he has ordered a decree. He says: "O mayors and the village chiefs! I'm working on a bill, I'll shut you down. Therefore, in order for you to use the powers that you have received from the Constitution and the law, you need the approval of the head of the largest property in the area. In other words, according to Idris Naim Şahin and his team, the elected mayor has yet to take the appointment of the elected trustee to use his zoning authority. You can't be too proud of what you've brought to judgment. And I want to underline that in particular. Now, this bill came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the Speaker of Parliament transferred it to the Commission. In the commission, we say that this bill is contrary to the Constitution's 2nd, 3rd, 10th, 90th, 123rd, 126, 126, 127th. What should be done? This bill needs to be reviewed by the Constitutional Commission, doesn't it? I'm so sorry, Governor, I have to say this. The President of the Interior Commission has issued a decree this time: there is no need for him to go to the Constitutional Commission. This is what we call Congress, folks. I'm sorry to say that one person says that I don't find it contrary to the Constitution. It's over. I just said it from this podium. Law 5018 says: "If there is an increase in public spending or a decrease in public spending, you must refer this arrangement to the Plan and Budget Commission. (The Law No. 3087 says the same thing in Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 3. Did you or did he get transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission? The answer is no. What's the reason? The Speaker of Parliament has sent it, but the President of the Plan and Budget Commission has written it, saying: "Our work is too much, we can't look at it." I ask you, friends, I ask you: I will not examine a law concerning 56 million citizens in Turkey on the basis of the multiplication of the President of the Plan and Budget Commission. What country is it that has the authority to say? If I didn't live in this country, I'd say it could be in an African country where democracy never flourishes. But it's happening in this country now, and what a black joke it is, just then, members of the Plan and Budget Commission are trying to study the bill in the back of the Interior Commission. Canician invites us to be serious. What can I say, fellas? What seriousness are you talking about? Is there any way you can get a serious law out of a working order like this? Now, the content of the bill. He declares 29 cities in all cities and says: "We have tried this and we have had positive results in Marseilles and Istanbul. I ask my friends who sit at AKP desks: Is there a single study by universities, scientists, or public administration bodies? Look, I'll tell you about a few data: Istanbul is 5,300 square kilometers, Opeseli is 3,500 square kilometers. So, how many square kilometers is this whole city of yours? 38,000 square kilometers. So that's 10, that's an Iconia. Let's continue, how much is the consolidated budget for this 5,300 square kilometers of Istanbul, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality? $19.1 billion. How much is the budget for the Ministry of Interior, which Mr. İdris Naim Şahin had made? $2.5 billion. So Istanbul controls eight Interior Ministry budgets. Now, you're saying you can run a city that's relatively small, but has a large budget, has a population density, which is about 10 times bigger than him, has a budget that's less than 1-tenth and has no population density. You can, but it's not going to be based on science and material reality, so anyone with a little conscience and a little understanding will deliver it. My dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0414par0058	With 2 billion, Turkey...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0413par0059	I'll finish up in a minute, and you can say what you want, and I'll explain what you want. I'm talking about the whole truth here. This is not a political conversation. If you want, you can come over and we can talk about it one at a time. My dear friends, look, the AKP spokesman says: "We have brought this whole city model because we will provide plan technique, zoning integrity." I'll show you a picture. I hope you can see it, too, my chatty friend. Look, this is the historic peninsula. The historic peninsula of the Ottoman Mosque, which you boast of as our martyr. What's behind this? The ones behind this are skyscrapers. Who runs Istanbul? The mayor of the city. That's 1/1 of the skyscrapers. Where does it come from? From the Oliveburn City Hall. Which party is Oliveburn from, folks? From the AKP. What party is Istanbul Metropolitan from? AKP. Is this what you call planning integrity? Since when is stabbing a dagger in the chest of the historic peninsula defined as the integrity of the plan? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The AKP spokesman who came out here says: "Our service to the people is to the right. Are these skyscrapers serving the people? Does he serve right? Or did you start describing your pockets as people and rights? [[Applause from CHP rows]] I mean, there's a lot to say, guys. There's a lot to say, but there's no way you can explain it with the integrity of the plan, with the zoning partnership. And there's a secret to democracy, and I'll give it to you: democracy is the art of negotiation. So the mayor's municipality, the municipality, the metropolitan district, the city outside of Metropolis, should be able to negotiate and negotiate a matter. Mr. Türel says that by taking advantage of our prime minister's municipal experience, we made a revolution in 2004 and 2005. Do you know what your revolution is? Code 5216. Do you know who's in charge? Its followers are Aytaç Durak and Melih Gökçek, and 5216, 5393, wherever it is practiced together, there is chaos. Please realize that what you refer to as revolution is actually chaos. Friends, let me tell you another great story of zoning integrity: It's in the AKP, isn't it? Istanbul Esenyurt. Look, I'm giving you an example of Symbol Karden. I don't know which one of you, but the plan is two and a half; construction site 13.99. That's the whole plan? Lavinya City; plan is 2.5; construction site 11.41. Babylon Towers; plan pattern 2, construction site 7,61. Keep setting up the Towers of Babylon, but know that they will be questioned. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My dear friends, you are removing 16,082 villages and closing 1.591 municipalities. Local Governments Autonomous Condition has been read here, and I'll read it for once: (In the borders of local administration, when legislation is in hand, and if possible through a referendum, see, I stress, if possible, there can be no change without prior consultations to the relevant local communities. Now, he's brought in two conditions, the terms of the local administration. Number one, is he giving or not? It's all in order, isn't it, fellas? There have been many referendums in Turkey, haven't there, friends? It's okay. What's left? ..if it's possible..... isn't it possible, Mr. Türel? Why isn't it possible? Is it winter? No judge? I wonder if the Supreme Election Board won't let me. What's wrong with you? Shutting down these municipalities in a hurry. And I'm very sorry, I don't mean to be harsh, but the Republican People's Party has come out and said, "I'm building the people's chest, come on, mayors of other parties, mayors, presidents of the polling board." How many places have we done this? We had a 430-state referendum. Shall I tell you how it's distributed? They're from the CHP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0415par0071	How many of them are from the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0413par0072	152 is from the AKP. You're wondering, if you'd been patient, I'd have told you. It's 152. It's from AKP. It's 63. It's from MHP. It's from the DP. It's from the DP. How many thousand of our citizens voted? 362,000 of our citizens voted. What's the result? 352,000 people said, "Don't touch my station, brother." I'm asking you now, the MPs sitting in these melon seats...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0416par0075	Aren't you sitting down?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0413par0076	Where do you get the authority to touch your municipalities where 352,000 of my citizens here call it touching? I'll give you an example of Birgi, who was the capital of the House of the Aydınites in 1889. Izmir Payer Birgi, 2,125 voters vote, 1.781/i say no, and you close this place down, my friends. You're shutting down Side. You are closing the Alaçat, which 5,150 people of the 7,035 voters voted and 5,145, said no. I'll give you a few more examples: Mr. Menderes Türal, these are theaters, which don't count. Look, as he says, the AKP of Ishalı, Abdurrahman Göktas (signed under the tent) ask him: Is this the tent theatre, or is it that I want to own my municipality, despite the people sitting in those comfortable seats? (Applause from CHP rows) AKP Chairman Metin Battal in Niğde Kitreli. Ask Metin Battal. Is this a tent theatre, or is it the people's chest? There are lots of examples here, and I'll show the curious all of them, but once again, I'd like to emphasize that what you're doing has nothing to do with procedure, justice, law. Now, my dear friends, you're doing local government reforms, shutting down the county's private administrations, so you're free of the worry of the county general Assembly. One body of the province's private administration is the governor, one body is the general assembly of the province. The city council comes with an election. The governor's on one side, the county council on the other. Why do you get rid of it when you shut down the county's private administration? You're also getting rid of members of the city council. Who's left? All that remains is the governor, the governor, the governor of the state, and I wouldn't be hurt, the remaining governor's official. How do we know that? We understand that you deliver refrigerators to houses with no electricity, five feet under the snow, while the snow is pouring down in the tunceli. Would a governor do that? A governor certainly brings help to a citizen, but a governor doesn't go door-to-door in winter just because there's an election. Who does that? Only a government official can do that. So you have made the governors, I beg your pardon, an officer of the government. I'm running out of time, and I'll make one point: Antioch City has four neighborhoods: Mediterranean, pear, Electricity and Sumerians. These four neighborhoods are the neighborhoods of Antioch, the districts of Antioch. You took these four neighborhoods and connected them to Defne City Hall 20 kilometers away. I'm telling the non-hearing, unknowing AKP MPs: shame on you! Shame on you, if you know. An ethnic separatism can't be done with a law, but you don't even see the harm in doing it. My last word is that you're going to plug the water fountains in the villages because the law says we're going to take money from the tariff in the water and the drinking water, so he's going to give his cow water. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he'll have to pay for your water meter, and you're still talking about serving the peasant. Friends, let me tell you, I believe that there are AKP MPs who are just as patriotic as I am. There's no politics at a single point in what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0417par0084	Thank you, Mr. Morning. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0413par0086	If you are willing to raise your hand to this bill despite my words, go ahead. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0417par0089	Mehmet Siam Kesimoglu, Kırklareli MP who asked for a word on his behalf.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0418par0091	Mr. President, I've been promised to share my personal views on the underlying bill of law. I hereby salute your high council. My dear friends, I don't want to create a polemic, but I'd like to address the consciences of the esteemed ruling party, which has as much thought as we do. This bill, under this sacred roof, is absolutely invisible, and certainly this bill must be withdrawn because the Civil Code is being subjugated, the Constitution is being violated, the culture of democracy is being ordered to be destroyed. It has nothing to do with democracy, justice, justice, or anything like that. The police force is bypassed and contains important provisions that will damage the unitary state structure. I've watched the arguments we've had with real sadness and example. Turkey is a country of rules, but there is one exception to every rule, and there is one exception to every exception, but I see that the rules have become a rule of non-compliance; all rules are for opposition MPs, all exceptions and exceptions are for lawmakers of the ruling party. I'm very sorry about that. Believe me, when I was interviewing the Internal Affairs Commission, I expressed our thoughts there. We've discussed this bill with many of our friends, many of our friends, who agree with our views on this bill, fully agree with our views, but that democratic culture in the party, the mortgage in those wills, is a serious obstacle to revealing real thoughts. It is not possible for me to give the names of these friends here, of course, but I speak to the MPs of the entire conscientious ruling party: History will never forgive you, history will never forgive you; please listen to the voice of your conscience and fight for this bill to fall back, fight with us, my dear friends. First of all, my predecessors have expressed themselves before me, and there is a decree in the Civil Code: As MP, we must inspect the bill or proposal, primarily in accordance with the Constitution. In this case, this bill constitutes serious violations of the Constitution. This bill came to the Interior Commission as a principal commission, with the General Assembly as raw as the Plan Budget Commission uninterviewed. This bill came to the General Assembly in its raw form, without being submitted to the information and attention of public and relevant organisations. When this bill came to the Internal Affairs Commission, it was a draft, not a bill. The Interior Commission has been put under heavy labour pressure without justification, and the bill has come to the General Assembly, and representatives of the ruling party have specifically avoided explanations, defences and debates, my dear friends. I say it's against the Constitution. You're shutting down county private administrations, shutting down state-of-the-art administrations in 29 major cities. The province's private administrations are the Constitutional Institutions of local government whose bodies are elected by local elections; they can never be eliminated without being replaced by another local government organisation. You're shutting down cities, 29 major cities, 52 cities, and there are municipalities in the city. The Constitution violates the principle of equality. Villages are the same level as cities, so they're both the local government unit and the body of central administration, the foundation bases are the same, and if you can't handle one, you can't take the other. There are serious violations of the Constitution. You're also renegotiating the Constitutional Court's cancellation in 2007, under Article 9 of the bill. This is a serious violation of the Constitution, my dear friends. The plan was not discussed in the budget; 250 million lira a month brings additional burdens to the budget of $3 trillion a year. That's not what I'm saying, it's the Ministry of Finance officials, but you're ignoring it. In particular, the subcommittee report was distributed to us, and at the same time, it was addressed to our views. Don't look at the envelope, look at the map. How can we contribute to something that we do not know, and how can we bring criticism? In that popular phrase of late, we were asked to chop onions into the meat in the butcher's meat, as Mr. Hakmi Hakmi said. Of course that's out of the question. No member of the ruling party's parliament has made a statement, has contributed to the Commission, I said, but I think I've wronged a friend. I can't see our friend, but he's probably here. That friend of ours, the Commissioner, our fellow member of the ruling party, our esteemed congressman, somehow prevents the Commission from expressing its beautiful and precious ideas, but he can put them on a social networking site in an Internet environment. It says against our blockages: "Yes, we have noticed, a resistance to those who have pave the way for people to receive the service better for ten years." It will be 2071 in the year when you realize that resistance has no reputation with the people, that it does not bring any benefit to the CHP, which is to the Prime Minister. My dear friends, I would like to say to this friend of ours and to our friends who think like this: Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of the Republic and Republican People's Party, carried out his struggle for independence, carrying the decree of the padishah's death around his neck like a bouquet of flowers. Ismet Pasha, who has a heart the size of the world states of Lauzan, is his follower and our second president. I would like to express my opposition to this bill here as part of my conscientious obligation to Ataturk. Mr. Vice President just told me about the generalization. My dear friends, the appointed cannot rule the chosen. Look, I did a study in the archives, and I have a national newspaper, July 1994. At the time, since you hadn't taken off your national vision shirt, you were closely monitoring this newspaper. The chosen must not be ruled by the appointed ones. Mr. Prime Minister says it that day when he was the mayor of Istanbul. The conditions for autonomy were mentioned in Europe, and why don't you go to the public? We went, the numbers were given. But I'd like to bring to your attention Mr. Prime Minister's remarks when he was mayor of Istanbul Metropolitan City, my time is running out: if it's the country's state of law, it must be carried out. If you don't, the last word is for your people. The newspaper is here. And when I said that in the commission, Mr. Secretary, did you print this paper? I don't intend to. Besides, the question is not answered with a question, I've been asking the Minister for months, he doesn't feel the need to answer my questions for some reason. Whether it's me or the congressman or the parliamentary democratic system, I leave it to your appreciation. That day's government brought a legal arrangement for local governments. Mr. Erdogan, as the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor, is expressing his opinion on this. On May 6, 1994, Erdogan, who asked the president to veto the law, said they would otherwise go to the public and take a stand with the public. If this proposal becomes legal and the practice begins, what we do is we go to the public and we take a stand with our people. There are more examples, my dear friends: I'd like to draw your attention to this place when the painting they desire doesn't come out -- this time, how do we tie the hands of local governments instead of strengthening the local governments? If you can stand behind him today, can you ask him to withdraw this bill? You can't because you're not sincere. Then you get angry when we tell you to follow. I'm asking you from this nation's podium, what in God's name is this? What in God's name is it? Dear friends, of course we have a lot to share. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll get right on it. Look, with this bill, there will be 122 million, 56, 382 acres of land, 122 million, 56, 382 acres of land. There's a serious rant here. And it is by offering it to your consciences that I complete my words, and once again I salute you with love.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0419par0109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as part of the Champions League group games, we wish the UEFA and Super Cup champion Galatasaray a great success in today's match with the Romanian team Cluj. [[Applause]] [[Continue]] Now, Minister of the Interior İdris Naim Şahin is asking for word on the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0420par0122	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge by our government to brief you on the establishment of major city municipalities and 23 districts in 13 counties, and on the amendment of the Law and Law Charter in 13 counties, which constitutes a ring of major reforms in the area of local government so far. On this occasion, Mr. President, I salute you and my fellow congressmen. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address the issues contained by the bill in general: With this bill, the municipalities of cities with more than 750k populations have been transformed into urban municipalities, bordering the province's property limits. The borders of the existing 14 major cities are being made to be state property limits. The legal personality of 29 cities, 1,582 districts, and 16,082 villages is terminated. 23 new districts are established in the cities to be converted into a major city. The towns in the Metropolitan area are joined by their neighborhoods, while the villages are part of the districts. Local municipalities, which have ended their corporate personality in 52 counties, are transformed into villages. In villages whose corporate personality has been removed, the tax, tuition, and participation should be taken under the City's Finance Act will not be taken for five years. Again, the price for drinking and using water in these villages will be determined in a way that does not exceed 25 per cent of the lowest rate in five years. For infrastructure services of the settlements turned into neighborhoods while the village was in its place, municipal and binding administrations are obliged to allocate 10 per cent of the investment budget by ten years. By the time this law is published from municipalities whose corporate personality has been removed and turned into a village, the corporate personality of those who have raised its population above 2,000 will continue. It is easier for municipalities to participate in districts, districts and towns in which municipalities who have become neighbours have been removed from the Tüzel personality and turned into villages, with the decision of the municipal council. Dear lawmakers, the law will generally take effect in the election of the first local administrations, and the corporate personality of the current village and local municipalities will continue until the election of the first local administrations. The current municipalities and municipalities will continue their current status until the election of the first local administrations. The municipalities are allowed to deliver services before the election to their responsibilities by this law. The newly established district municipalities have three times more resources from the central budget reserve funding arrangement than from the one-time overall budget tax revenues. Apart from İstanbul and Kopeeli, the municipality and the municipalities of the capital city are organised to allocate and use at least 10 per cent of the investment budgets for ten years and for infrastructure services within the municipality's borders as part of the law. With the bill, 6 per cent of the general budget tax revenues collected across the province will be divided into the municipal portion of the capital city. 60 per cent of the share will be collected directly, while the remaining 40 per cent will be distributed directly in the common account, according to the size of a hundred percent of the 40 per cent, while 70 per cent will be distributed on the basis of the population. With the bill, 4.5 per cent of the general budget tax revenues collected across Turkey will be divided into the district's share within the capital city limits. Ten per cent of this share will be calculated by facial measurement and 90 per cent by population. As part of the administration, which is ten per cent of the designated district's share, 30 per cent will be distributed as part of the city's municipality, and 60 per cent will be distributed as part of the district. The bill reduces the state's private administration's share of the collection of general budget tax revenues to 5 per cent for the province's private administrations. In 29 counties, special administration agencies are being removed, and the remaining 52 districts of private administrations are still being earmarked in the same manner. Again, according to the bill, the financial burden on the budget will be $3 billion, according to 2011 accounts, as a result of the establishment of 13 major cities, the changing of 14 major city municipalities, and the increase of the 5 per cent share to 6 per cent. With the bill, one per thousandth of general budget tax revenues will be distributed on the basis of the population, 65 per cent travelling to small municipalities under the population of 10,000, and 35 per cent will be distributed on the basis of the population. It is the duty of the city's municipalities to evacuate and destroy buildings that are at risk of disaster or dangerous for life and property safety. The city's municipality and its municipalities or district municipalities are authorized to make and co-ordinating decisions in the event there is a conflict over the conduct of services among them. Metropolitan municipalities will be able to or will be able to hand over some of their duties to the municipal municipalities by parliament. The construction and maintenance of roads from the village to the district center is given to the Metropolitan municipality. The rights of forest villagers and forest villages are protected by this bill. The rights of villages and towns, which have been removed from their corporate personality and turned into neighborhoods, are maintained on the meadows, plateaus, and barracks. While in the village, existing building stocks in places to turn into neighborhoods are considered licensed, licensed, licensed services. In the villages whose corporate personality has been removed, the implementations of a model project (projects) on non-profit structures are being brought in, and the projects will be granted free of charge by the municipalities of the district or by the municipalities of the city if they demand it. The municipalities will be able to provide the same assistance as amateur sports clubs. In the provinces where the private administrations of the province are removed, the Mining Law and the Law on Natural Mineral Waters shall be carried out by the governorates, according to the Law on Natural Mineral Waters. The state's private administration, which will be closed, will be set up in municipalities and villages' personnel transport and division commissions in the provinces to make the transfer according to the rights, purchases and interest of their debts, and to identify employment surplus personnel in municipal and municipal private administrations. The commissions will be divided and the transfer process will be completed before the election, and the transfer process will be carried out as of the general election of the first local administrations. The state's private administration, which has been removed from its corporate personality, will be responsible for providing a conditional donation to the municipality or village's corporate personalities and the institution and the institution where the age of the movers is being used in accordance with the purpose of the donation. The state's private administration, which has been removed from its corporate bodies, will be transferred to the city municipality or its municipality or its municipality or its ministry or its relevant institutions, its provincial organization, the governorates or investment monitoring and co-ordination, according to the decision on the commission of its non-movable properties, rights, and debts. According to the commission decision, the staff of the private administrations of the province, which have been removed from the entity, the chairman of investment monitoring and co-ordination will be transferred to the mayorate of the city, the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the province, or the municipality of the municipality of the province. Because its population is less than 2,000, the personnel owned by municipalities will be transferred to private administrations of the province by moving and moving. However, the people of the village will need to be moved and not moved, and the village will be left to its corporate personality by commission. In accordance with Law 5779 for the turn of the village, the shares will continue to be sent to the province's private administration for five years, which will be paid by the Bank of Provinces to the public institutions and institutions of the municipalities. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers will be divided by the commission between the moving and immovable properties of municipal municipalities converted into major cities and their staff, the municipal municipality of the capital city and the municipality of the municipality of the municipality. The staff of municipalities and villages whose corporate personalities have been removed from the cities will be transferred to municipal municipalities, municipal municipalities, and ministries, according to the commission decision, along with non-moving goods, rights, and debts. Metropolitan municipalities and more than 100,000 municipalities are also obliged to open a guesthouse for women and children. Mr. President, I'd like to briefly discuss the amendments to some of the laws and regulations of this bill. The governors have provided a review of the issues proposed to the council's agenda at the assembly's first meeting. The state's private administration is organised to be a natural member of the secretary general's council. The number of elected and appointed members of the council has been reduced from 11 to 7. According to the State Contraction Act, it is only possible that the councilor, who should be collected fully as a tender commission, will be collected and made a majority of decisions. If the state's private administration budget is not finalised during the duration of its budget, the order for the resolution of the issue is being made by the Interior Ministry. In the mayor's election, a new development has been set up to set the name of the headman and the azas on the ballot with this law. The temporary and volunteer village rangers who serve in villages whose corporate personality has been removed will continue to do their duty where they serve. In terms of the activities and efficiency of services run by the central administration in the country, the leadership of investment monitoring and co-ordination in 29 municipalities, which are the city's capital city municipalities, to increase the efficiency and efficiency of services, and to prevent failures in the ministry, to fill and guide the gap in the field of control, to conduct disaster and emergency aid services. Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, as a result, these services are designed to be provided by local governments, which have the potential to provide effective, effective services in some cities, which are inefficiently and efficiently available to local public services with the current decentralisation structure, and are intended to be edited in this direction. I sincerely hope that this bill of law will be good for our country and our citizens, and I welcome you all with this occasion with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0421par0156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, Mehmet Erdogan has asked for a word on behalf of his own, Müğla MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0422par0159	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The AKP does not intend to do well on this bill. Such an important law, which has radically changed the administrative structure of Turkey, is in its effort to pass the entire Constitution, the Civil Code, the Law, the Law-making techniques, very quickly, by disregarding them. As such, I strongly condemn the Speaker of Parliament and Deputy Prime Minister in charge of TRT.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0423par0162	I resent it, too.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0422par0163	At the very least, the Parliament's broadcast on these matters concerning the fate of the nation must continue for 24 hours as long as the House works. In order to fulfill his promises in Oslo, the government has both employed the Commission under heavy pressure of time, and is now trying to run the General Assembly in the same way. Of course, when we speak of their commitments to Oslo, they accuse us of daydreaming, dreaming. In 2010, Mr. President-General, when the State Gardener first voiced these Oslo talks, the word the Prime Minister spoke on that day was hung on his neck today. Today, those who denied Oslo talks, if we made those calls, we did. From now on, if necessary, we will continue to do so again. So we say that as a result of those negotiations, you brought this bill here to fulfill your promises in Oslo, to please the people in Oslo. Now you're jeopardizing the country's unity, its pitchfork. You're going to make Turkey unmanageable through the new city states you're going to create. These city states won't recognize you, they won't recognize central power. Now, look, these city mayors who are going to be elected head of state, they're going to be a little older than the ministers, a little smaller than the president of the Prime Minister's dream.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0424par0168	Like with the MIT.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0422par0169	Sir, you're exaggerating too much. You're going to say it like you always do. Well, if we're exaggerating, if we don't know anything, if we don't see anything, for months, the public has been talking about the mayor's nomination of half the cabinet. Will our ministers leave the ministry, run for mayor of the town, or will they run for president of one of the 29 newly established city municipalities? You have to see this very well. Of course, when you're building these city states, you're destroying villages and towns. You will now cover the back of the villager at least five to ten times the amount of taxes he has already paid. After all, the peasant couldn't produce it in your time of power, he couldn't sell what he was producing. Under this heavy tax burden, the peasant is no longer able to live in the village. The peasant will now move to the suburbs of the cities, which means this new wave of migration, new drama, new unemployment, new inadequacy, homelessness, lack of peace. Now, of course, you're ignoring something else when you're making this law. I'm an MP of Muğla, and there are 1,100km of shorelines in Mugla. You can't go from one side to another in four or five hours. 58 percent of the population resides in villages in such vast geography and again in Muğla Province. It is not possible for you to serve such a messy settlement from one hand, from the center of the city of Mughlah. The centre is smaller than 3-4 districts in its district. Now, as a result of these unlimited powers granted to municipalities, municipalities will take on central administration at the very beginning; it is no longer possible for the state to reach citizens through governors and subsidiaries such as social aid and solidarity, etc., and so on, a very important portion of the resources the state transfers to municipalities will then be squandered in the name of help to citizens. Now, these municipalities that you've set up... of course, while discussing new municipalities, new ducats, you must remember the existing urban practice. In the current capital city implementation, the debt of municipalities has been systematically increased in recent years, while the investment spending of municipalities has been systematically reduced. That shouldn't be overlooked. The most simple is traffic is allocation because the subway is not built in the heart of Ankara. Now, the Metropolitan Municipality, which has not been able to operate a single subway station in Ankara for ten years, has now found that the solution is to transfer these municipalities, these investments to the Ministry of Transport. Now, will these ducats, established by this law, consent to the powers vested here today? They won't. In accordance with your promises in Oslo, you will gradually hand over the powers you have passed from central administration to the governors, such as education, health, traffic, and domestic security. After all, these municipalities have a missing authority, which is to print money, and you solve it. Of course, in the framework of your project to make Turkey a satellite of the United States, you make the dollar a common currency, and you solve this. Of course, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has another demand, and they say: "What if a second flag were to be raised next to the Turkish flag?" Now, you're saying, of course, you're overestimating it. I'm not overestimating it, all of it, all of it. The bottom line is, of course, don't think these people are stupid. Now, when you shut down the governor and the governors, how are you going to implement government and state policy with elected mayors? How are you going to control these mayors, who are more effective than the ministers, who are competent, and have larger budgets? Mr. Home Secretary, how can you use custody authority on these mayors? Because none of this is going to get you involved. These are the only ones we have to talk to. They will say, "One, those who choose us, two, Prime Minister." They won't talk to anyone else in between. So far, everyone knows what laws have been passed in this House under the pressure of the mayors of the capital.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0425par0177	Parsley law, parsley!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0422par0178	And from now on, you can't use your custody authority on these mayors. By hosting this law, you eliminate your authority, your duty. Now, of course, this bill is an administrative federalism law. When we say that, you say we exaggerate...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0426par0180	You said it before, it didn't happen.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0422par0181	...but Mr. Asaf War Akat wrote in the Vatan newspaper at the time of the debate of this bill, and the determination of the Nationalist Movement Party that this law is an administrative federalism is true to the end. I've defended administrative federalism for years, but no one dared bring it to Parliament, which is how I celebrate the AKP. I mean, there's no need to tell me too much about administrative federalism. So far, you've shown us the model of Izmit and Istanbul as examples, but the geographical conditions of Izmit and Istanbul, the way we're talking about the settlement, none of the new major cities we're talking about have anything to do with it. The entire province, which you call Izmit, is located in the settlement and the geographical area of Izmit, is half the geographical area of the Pınarbaşı district, which will be included in Kayseri. First, when you talk about this law, read some history, read some geography, read some mathematics, have a little compassion. The Prophet says: "Warn those who persecute themselves, help them. We are trying to do it from here. For God's sake, withdraw this bill of law that will lead the Turkish nation into the swamp, and do no harm, do no wrong to this nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0427par0186	Thank you. The whole bill has a motion on it according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. Negotiations on all 338 rows of the current Bill of Law have not been enlightening due to the following issues. That's why the House Office is 72. In accordance with the clause, we propose that negotiations continue. Mehmet Şandir Sadir Durmaz Ali Öz Mehmet Erdoğan Enver Erdem Mesut Dedeoğlu Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Rusar Demirel Bulent Belen Seyfetttin Yilmaz Şişek Güçük Kemalettin Yilmaz Necati Özensoy Alim Işım Emin Haluk Ayhan Yusuf Halaçoğlu Celal Adan The bill, in this case, is the third of our Constitution. The state's integrity, which is the issue, is 10. Article 90 to the principle of equality in front of the Law. Article 123 of the principle that the law should be in accordance with acceptable agreements. Article 126 to the principle of integrity of the administration. Article 127 of the principle of "power width." Article 169 and 170 were organised in the form of municipalities and villages as local administrations. It's a violation of the regulation of forest villages. The bill was also intended to eliminate the provision that would endanger the country's unitary structure, bring additional burdens to our citizens, cause irreparable damage. On the other hand, when the bill is considered as a whole, it subjects citizens of the Republic of Turkey to two different positions in terms of civic law. A separate administrative organisation in the cities of the Metropolitan municipality will include the status of those living in the provinces outside the city's municipality, which will be subject to a separate administrative organisation. Citizens who will live in different statuses, citizens in the cities of the capital city municipality will live only under the law of the city's municipality, while those who live in non-existent cities will live under the laws of the province's private administration, the municipality and the village. This is the 10th First Amendment. Article 1 of the article. The principle of "equality before the law" mentioned in the joke, and "everyone, language, race, gender, political thought, philosophy, religion, religion, and so on in the last joke of the same clause. For reasons of distinction is equal to the law without being observed." It's a violation of his principle. The Constitution "123rd Amendment to the territorial property limits of the Metropolitan municipality and the removal of private administrations and villages of its public corporate personality in these provinces. Article 1 of the article. In his joke, the administration is united by its organization and its duties and is regulated by law." Your sentence and 127. Article 1 of the article. "The state-owned administrations are the people whose foundations are laid down by law to meet the common needs of the municipality, or village people, and the decision-making bodies, which are also shown in the law, are elected by voters." It clearly contradicts your provisions. The province's private administration, municipality and village's public corporate personalities are envisioned by the Constitution, not by law. The bill, on the other hand, lifts the public corporate personality of the state's private administration and violates the Constitution's ruling. The bill converts the village's public corporate personalities into neighborhoods without a public corporate personality. A village can end the existence of its public corporate personality by law, but it cannot be subjected to a status transformation that will eliminate its public corporate personality. 123 of the Constitution. Article 2. The joke is, "The establishment and its duties are based on management and management from the center." He's in charge. The bill violates the central management-majority relationship established in 29 major cities and the principle of the integrity of governance in this context. According to the constitution, central administration is divided into cities and other tier areas, while local administrations are divided into cities, municipalities and villages. Again, according to the Constitution, the vehicle to ensure integrity among the two administrative foundations is administrative custody. In terms of the boroughs mentioned in the bill, it appears that the administrative integrity of the province has been eliminated. On the other hand, the results of the common areas, such as mera, bow and pasture, are drawn to great uncertainty. In these common areas, the city municipalities are authorized to perform zoning practices. This is a violation of the principle of equality and the principle of legal safety of citizens in front of the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0428par0215	Mr. President, my constituency hasn't been read, so I'd like to have it rectified, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0427par0216	I don't understand.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0428par0217	My name, after my last name, you didn't read my constituency, so I want it rectified and filed.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0427par0218	Okay. ▪ Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0428par0220	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0427par0221	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The whole bill will be asked and answered for 20 minutes. However, Mr. Belen, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Demir, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Aslanoğlu and Mr. Dibek have entered the system yesterday, but today, they have entered the system, Mr. Belen, Mr. Türkoğlu and Mr. Oğan. I'd like to ask the other members of parliament to enter the system, because the members of parliament who entered the system yesterday will be promised.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0429par0223	Mr. President, as we entered yesterday, we'd like to enter today.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0427par0224	Yours is in yesterday's order, sir, not today's line. Yes, Mr. Belen, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0430par0226	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how are you going to look at the faces of the governors and the governors, who you've brought with this grand-city bill, who you've turned into a civil servant and an officer who's going to appear in protocol? Because friends in this office are also colleagues of yours. There are also rumors in the House lobby that you have not been admitted to the General Executive Board of your Party since you were excommunicated by your president for opposing this bill. Is that true? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0431par0230	Thank you, Mr. Belen. Your Grace, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0432par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'd like to ask you a sincere question: whose request is this arrangement? Because it's not the request of our citizen; it's not the demand of mayors, village chiefs, universities, scientific environments, the Ministry, whose request is it? What's the real point? So by passing the optimal scale of the law, the integrity of the plan, the efficiency of the services, and the real purpose of the services... will you withdraw the law that we consider the law of treason and save our nation from this trouble? Another question is: Do you condone a change in Turkey's governance system, a change in the Metropolitan City Law, and this arrangement that concerns the entire administrative system? My third question is, if the presidential system is the goal, why don't you bring these demands to the public as a whole? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0433par0237	Thank you. Mr. Turkoglu, come in. Yeah, I guess the system won't allow it. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. I think there's something wrong with the system.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0434par0242	Sir, the clock is ticking.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0433par0243	We will, sir, don't worry. Mr. Turkoglu, go somewhere else and we'll give it to you. Yeah, get in the system from there.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0435par0245	Clock's ticking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0433par0246	We will, sir, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0435par0247	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0433par0248	Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0436par0249	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, what happened to improving police rights? What happened to fixing the working conditions for the police? What happened to fixing the cops' addendum? We ask a lot of times, but we don't get any answers, so today, please answer this question. Is it true that police officers don't shoot terrorists in Diyarbakir? What did you do about this manager? For the first time in history, a prime minister has publicly voiced his misbehavior, but has not dismissed him. Is this because of the promise of the governor, the governor, the commissioner, to be appointed in Oslo? Please answer this question. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0437par0253	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0438par0255	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the village of Şanlıurfa-Biriyet is a small village on the Syrian border. Approximately 150 people live. Birecık is a village 25km away from the district. If Metropolitan City Council Bill 338 is passed by Parliament, the village will lose its status and will not even be a neighborhood. There's a large forest area in this village, and it's made up of fun trees. Is there a technical and administrative decision on cutting down trees? Does the Commander of the Gendarme have the authority to make cutbacks? Has such authority been given or given? How many trees have been cut down by now? Is there any tender for the sale of the trees that have been cut down?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0437par0257	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0439par0259	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Oslo talks, as you know, have been released to the press. There was a sentence that said: "We will first hand the authorities over to the governors, to the governors, to the mayors, to the mayors. We see that with this law that you have brought in today, the authorities will be removed from the governors and given to the mayors. Did you bring this law to the House in your heart? Please, come out in front of the Turkish nation and say, "Yes, this law, as Minister of the Interior, feels good to me." You, Governor, as chairman of the Commission, look at the face of the Turkish nation -- even though you've cut it now, the Turkish nation will file a report whether it sees you or not -- this law applies to us, and this law is not a division law. Say, "This is how we resolve our concerns."
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0440par0262	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0441par0264	Minister, there are 500 industrial companies here. The number of day laborers... 500 factories and about 50,000 workers. Eunuchville is an important industrial center. There's no IRS, no insurance, and even though it has industry, all these people have to go to Albanianville, 35 kilometers. In this regard, would you consider making Eunuchköy a district? Eunuchville deserves it. Are you going to prevent these people from being victims of this? Secondly, Mr. Secretary, the police won't get a third of what they're getting in retirement today, our retired officers will be devastated. It's a persecution for people. Right now, these people are devastated by the fact that your compensations don't reflect on their pensions, pensions, and pensions. It'll take care of the mess...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0440par0267	Thank you. Mr. Dibek? I don't think so. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0442par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, there has been a 10-percent limitation of non-responsibility sales to foreign and legal persons by Law 6302 in May. Now, since these limits have expanded to the management limits of property, will the sales to foreign real and legal persons also increase to 10 percent of the facial measurement? What measures do you intend to take? Or do you intend to close the business deficit that went bad and grew up with the sales that will be made to foreigners? Would you consider the city law that way? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0443par0273	Thank you. Mr. Akar? No.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0444par0275	I was next after Mr. Alim. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0445par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, 1,023 municipalities in 29 major cities planned to be established in Turkey will be closed. Do you see it right that the municipalities in this town have not lost their criteria for being a municipality by law, and that when these settlements are a village, they are a municipality by the will of the people, with the referendum and the municipality, without consulting them in this position, without their ideas being taken? Do you describe yourself as a higher power than the will of the people?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0446par0279	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Erdogan, the system has erased it, and I promise you now. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0447par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how long will the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner, who doesn't take us for human beings, stay in his place? Again, how long will Tunceli Chief of Police be in position, the separatist? Again, how will the assets of the corporate personality of 16,000 villages whose legal identity has been removed by this law be protected by the municipalities after this? What about the efforts of those villagers who worked for years to build that village's estate, to build those village mansions, to protect the village's meadow, to protect its forest? What measures will you take against the plundering of this village's goods after this law? What will the governor and the governors do after this law? Do you intend to send the governorship of 500 districts into the state staff pool with this law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0448par0285	Thank you. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0449par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, it's said that the city's municipalities will be closed for savings while the law is being discussed. Do you intend to reduce the number of cities in Turkey to save money? One. Second: Do you intend to lift your reservations about the European Union's Condition of Local Governments? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0450par0291	Thank you. Mr. Uzbek...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0451par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to remove state-of-the-art private administrations in non-majority cities? Is there any study of this? Otherwise, I think it would be helpful to do so because I believe that serving villages in non-majority cities will increase efficiency and service by the central and borough municipalities. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0452par0296	Thank you. Mr. Serindağ... no. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0453par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there's a response from your Ministry of the Interior of the Izmir Bar, which has been reflected in the press for two days because the application to the Ministry of Interior and the use of pepper gas have no lasting effects on human health damage. I want to know if this is true or not. In response to your Ministry's response, it has been scientifically determined that the gas does not cause such permanent damage to human health because it is considered permanent because of the use of batons and similar equipment against groups involved in illegal events? Is that correct? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0454par0302	Thank you. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0455par0304	Thank you. Minister, with this law, Erzurum Grand City's service area will increase by 20 times what it is today. This ratio goes up to 50 floors in Iconia, so where is rationality in raising city mayors' services 20 times, 50 times in city centers today? What guarantee do you have on the efficient and efficient use of resources? On the other hand, we'd like to know what you think of the Diyarbakır Police Commissioner. How long will you tolerate this behavior, which is insulting the state, insulting the nation, and even insulting the people, which the Prime Minister says, "I don't cry, I don't cry." I'd appreciate it if you'd answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0456par0308	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0310	Mr. President, I'm going to try to provide brief answers to the questions of our esteemed MPs. The question of Mr. Belen is not entirely about the law, but about myself. I'd like to consider this an internal matter of the party I belong to.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0458par0312	Answer the question about the governors, Mr. Secretary. What about their authority?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0313	Mr. Enver Erdem Beyin, whose request is this law? The question, where did it come from? This law is a model developed as a result of the age and needs, and it is nothing more than an expansion of the model to the country's sath. Everyone wants to set different goals, we can load them, we respect that. Mr. Turkoglu's question about our police's rights and working conditions is: That's right, our police's rights to self-responsibility are inadequate to their task, which requires heavy responsibility, and if necessary, life-threatening. No matter how much we pay for our police, for our security forces, for those of us who are life-threatening members of the task force, it's not enough. But as far as the country's budgets are concerned, work is being done to improve the working conditions and improve the rights of equity, and these improvements will be done with all of our efforts in time, hopefully with all of our efforts.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0458par0315	Mr. Secretary, where do you find this source?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0316	The joint assessment, investigation and investigation of our Ministry, Security General Directorate is under way regarding the recent statement made by our Diyarbakır County Police Commissioner. His question about the tree cut in a village of 150 inhabitants in the District of Birekik, Şanlıurfa, Şanlıurfa Province, Turkey: This village will turn into a neighborhood. There will be no neighborhood. Its assessment is contrary to the truth. The question is, does Jandarma Command have the authority to cut trees? The question is, does it not directly have the authority to do so, but if the Forest Authority has requested a security service, it has to be able to perform the task, through its own or through its members. Mr. Oğan has been transferred to the mayors of the capital city. There is no such arrangement in any of the articles of this law, in any joke. This is an estimate, an estimate, an imaginary assessment; any arrangement is not in the law. When it comes to private administrations, governors of the province's private administrations are only the heads of the council and are in the position of representation. The province's private administrations are a separate local government institution and are institutions that operate with its own organs, with its own budget. The governors are given powers by different laws, perhaps it's possible to say that some additional powers have been brought in by this law. Mr. Aslanoğlu has been appointed to the district of Eunuchköy...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0459par0321	Minister, there was more to the problem, sir. Is your conscience clear?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0322	Don't let anyone get undressed here for the angel of conscience. I'm answering the relevant questions.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0459par0323	We understand that your conscience will not accept it then.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0324	My conscience belongs to me, your conscience belongs to you. I'm not questioning your conscience, so please don't get involved in questioning your conscience here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0459par0326	Mr. Secretary, does your conscience accept this?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0327	Don't worry, you'll get answers with corners.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0459par0328	Mr. Secretary, the Turkish nation's conscience is troubled.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0329	The Turkish nation is the nation I belong to, so there's no need to speculate on it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0459par0330	We're not speculating over him. It's a division law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0331	Mr. Aslanoglu, we don't intend to build a town for now; the population is dense during the day and the population is scarce at night. But I think we need to coordinate with the ministries that are concerned about the acquisition of services, such as the offices of the IRS, the insurance agency, you're referring to. You've stated the pension of the police, the low pension of their pensions. That's right, we agree with you. It's on the agenda to make improvements there as well as there as the country's resources. Mr. Alim Iş: Will there be an increase in the sale of property to foreigners by the city law? • In this law, the total area of the same rights, which are independent and continuous with the imports of real foreign nationals, the subject of private property, cannot exceed 10 per cent of the 100km and 30 hectares per capita across the country. Thus, this arrangement in the existing Law remains in effect, provided the Council of Ministers has the authority to increase the amount available per capita to twice the amount available across the country.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0460par0334	Mr. Secretary, the county line is now expanding to the management line.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0335	Mr. Bridgelü wanted to emphasise the dissolution of municipalities in the district of 1,023, which is the municipality within the capital city limits, although the conditions for being a municipality are still under way. There's no contrast here, there's a contrast to the problem itself. Because those municipalities are part of a larger municipal structure, both as an agency and as a liability. If the goal is to serve with the municipal organization, there will be more regular, larger municipal services. Mr. Erdogan, I've answered the question about our Diyarbakır Police Commissioner on another occasion. What will the governor and the governors do from now on, and what will it do? (As a question of the question, I would like to point out that the question itself is a bit of an underestimating question to our professional community.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0461par0337	You don't leave anything to do!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0338	As for the answer, the governor and the governors will continue to carry out the same work that their colleagues have done in the public administration, in the general administration of this country, in accordance with today's conditions, to serve, to serve the nation, to represent the state, and to protect the state's existence, its integrity, and its duties. With this law, they will not be relieved of any of their duties.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0461par0339	Oh, have mercy, have mercy...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0340	Mr. Firat: Do you intend to reduce the number of cities? • We do not have such an arrangement with this bill, nor do we have such an idea in recent history. If you have a suggestion, we'd like to take advantage of it. Mr. Uzbek, in 52 counties, they ask whether we intend to remove the state's private administration or not. No, we said we didn't remove their state-of-the-art private administration in 52 counties. The law also includes regulations, statements. The answer is clear in the bill. Mr. Kaplan tells the Izmir Bar that we have a written answer to a matter other than the bill. I believe the facts in the written answer are facts you won't object to. Our goal is not to deal with people who live their lives in their work, living their lives within the legal framework, but to prevent people who want to break the law, who want to commit illegal acts. In this attempt to prevent it, the state must ensure that its preventive measures, even if they are in the interest of criminal action, are in the best possible way to deter and control its citizens. The answer was given according to the question asked. It's someone else who asks the question, and it's our Ministry who answers it. And the answer to the question, as you put it, is in it. Mr. Şandır is a town in which Erzurum, Konya, and other provinces grew as of the municipality's services, as of the province's borders. In some places, it's 10 times the size, but I don't think there's 50 times the growth, so there's always 3, 5, 10 times the growth.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0462par0344	Mr. Minister, Iconya 38,000 square kilometers.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0457par0345	The goal is to increase the responsibility of the geographical field with this law, and to bring city services there in a more orderly and civilized way. It's not possible to invade the big city without expanding the area and spread the city's services to large areas. The rationality of this is shaped and shaped by each province's own geography, its own population. The possibilities, staff, staff and financial resources are organised according to the geography and population criteria of each province. I do, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0463par0348	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0464par0349	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0463par0350	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0464par0351	I believe negotiations have been completed on the whole of the law, but in this law-related Commission, in the press, on other grounds, there is a high degree of opposition to the Constitution. I would like to propose that the whole law be discussed without voting, without guaranteeing that it should be passed on to the articles.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0463par0352	Mr. Shandir, one moment, please. Talks on the entire bill have been completed. As we began the talks, there were numerous disputes that the bill could not be negotiated on charges of violation of the Civil Code provisions, including yesterday's merger. In these discussions and talks on the entire bill, opposition to the Constitution was also expressed. At this stage, it is unlikely that we will be able to open an argument in the form of non-constitutional, appropriate procedure. The Constitution, however, will be able to submit a amendment to the removal of every clause due to violation of the text. The Constitutional Court is also the body of the Constitutional Court to be audited in accordance with the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0464par0354	Mr. President, if the allegations of violation of the Constitution of a law, which is the decision of the General Assembly, are passed without enough discussion, it would be incomplete, it would be wrong, it would cripple the law. I'd like you to open a debate on the breach of the Constitution. If you don't open it, I'm gonna open up a procedural debate.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0463par0355	Mr. Chancer, I already told you I won't open it because it's been discussed from yesterday, but if you'd like to discuss it in a manner of speaking, be my guest.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0464par0356	I'm starting a discussion about your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0463par0357	Do you want to speak in favor or against me?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0464par0358	I want it against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0465par0359	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0463par0360	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0466par0361	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0467par0362	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0468par0363	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0469par0364	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0470par0365	I said the second one.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0471par0366	Mr. President, I said it in favor first. I said it first, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0469par0367	I mean, there's no automatic machine, so let's find out.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0472par0368	Sir, I want you to set the order against him, in favor of the transcripts. After that, it was wrong. Do not drag negotiations into discussion with your claims again.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit07spe0469par0369	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0469par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place. Now we're going to open up a legal debate. Yes, I'm reading the report: ▪ Do you want to speak against him or against him? I want Mehmet Shandır to take the stand. Mehmet Günal, Lehte. The president is against you. Nurettin Canikli, Lehte. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi ▪ Against him. Therefore, Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0473par0013	Mr. Faruk is handing it over, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0469par0014	No, sir, it's not time. I read that here. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0473par0016	Faruk Bal. He's handing it over to Mr. Mehmet.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0469par0017	Well, let him have it. Mr. Honey, here you go. Mr. Günal's handing it over, isn't he?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0474par0020	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0469par0021	Lehte, here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0475par0024	The Constitution won't last three minutes, at least five.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0476par0025	Mr. President, we're going to discuss a very important matter in three minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0477par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we object to your position in rejecting our motion to examine the Constitution. With your attitude, Mr. President, the third unchanging article of the Constitution was this: the state of Turkey is undivisable with its country and its nation. Now, it's become a divided whole or it's divided into a whole. Because with the status of the major cities and the status of citizens in the status of cities that are not part of the capital city, and the nature and shape of public institutions and institutions that serve here have changed accordingly. In the 10th article of the Constitution, all are equal before the law. With your attitude, Mr. President, he's changed. Now, not everyone is equal to the law. What is it? According to this law, they no longer have such rights as the property, property, property, pasture, and pasture of the people of the village who live within the city's municipal borders, but instead the villages and the people in other provinces have earned such rights, so the equality has been broken. This equality has also changed from the basic debt of citizens, from their basic homework to taxes, painting, tuition, because in villages and neighborhoods under the status of the major cities, the price of electricity is different, the price of garbage tax is more expensive, the property tax is more expensive, the property tax is more expensive, the property is more expensive, the business room is more expensive, the advertising tax is more expensive, the registration tax is more expensive, and the citizens' community has broken the principle of the Constitution. Mr. President, with this attitude, the decision of the Constitution to treat the state and the rule of equality, given as instructions to those who rule the state in Article 10 of the Constitution is no longer in effect. On the other hand, the establishment and tasks of the Constitution's Article 123 have been based on management and management from the centre. The principle of the administration and the administration of the administration has been eliminated, instead of ordering the establishment and the duties of the administration from the centre, and by the order of the Minister of the Interior and by the interpretation of the Constitution. However, the entire form of the Constitution, the 126th article, the 127th article, and the entire form of the Constitution, has been changed. With this attitude, I hereby declare myself against you, and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0478par0033	Thank you. Yes, it's Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP who wants to speak against him.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0479par0036	Mr. President, this is a fundamental law that changes the central structure of our state, changing the unitary structure of our state, according to the laws it brings in. Turkey will now have a three-headed government. The public's elected president, the public's elected prime minister, is the city municipal law elected by the public. So you're dragging the country into total chaos. This is contrary to the unitary state structure, which is the institutional law of our republic. In the third article of the Constitution, which you have brought as a very fundamental element of the irreconcilable violation of provisions, these three entities are the amendment of the institutional law of this republic or the republic. Dear friends, look, I'm not saying in a power-to-responsibility race, this state was founded after a national struggle. The people who fought this national war, the heroes who built this state, they set up a law. The law has been established in the Constitution of 1924 as a social contract with its own people. There, the shape of our state, the name of our government, our nation, our flag, our capital, our language is defined; 550 MPs, 75 million people cannot vote to change that. If you change the institutional law of the state, you will destroy those states and form a new state. This law has a character that will reach here in this sense. I'm just saying this to get him on the record. God forbid, in the coming process, from the moment you put the elected mayor of the city next to the elected mayor, in violation of the institutional law of this country, I know you're very much looking forward to it, but then you'll be building a federal state that will destroy the unitary state.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0480par0038	He's wanted her since 91, since 91.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0479par0039	This is also contrary to the Constitution. Taking a law against the Constitution, allowing it to negotiate, makes it debatable for Mr. Speaker's legitimacy. For that reason, I also condemn the Speaker of the House to give three minutes of these negotiations here, and since he's lost credibility in this matter, I'm going to have to re-equivocal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to open up a discussion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0481par0045	Thank you. Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0048	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. The provisions brought with this bill do not constitute any violations to the Constitution, to the Constitution. The third joke of Article 127 of our Constitution is very clear...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0483par0050	Read it, Mr. President, read it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0051	I'll read it, yes, I'll read it now. ...in some way, it's a constitutional basis for such arrangements. The third part of Article 127 of our Constitution...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0483par0053	Mr. President, why don't you read that 127? Let's find out what it says.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0054	...the last sentence: the law can bring special forms of governance for large settlements.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0484par0055	Let's see if this is the settlement center.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0485par0056	The mountains, the hills, the great settlements...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0057	Yeah, residential centers, residential centers.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0485par0058	Look, it says the mountains, not the hills, but the great settlements.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0059	They're all residential.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0485par0060	What do you mean, the settlement center?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0061	You define him. Of course, the term "great settlements" is the broadest interpretation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0486par0063	Mr. President, I mean, how do property management borders become a residential center?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0064	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Shandir, I...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0486par0065	The mountain stone, the settlement. You call it?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0066	See, the expression, the great settlement, clearly covers large cities or places that have been declared a capital city.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0486par0067	The settlement is a residential area.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0068	That's right. I mean, how do you make up the concept of the great city, of the great settlement, how do you fill it? You're filling it with law. Isn't that right? You're filling it with law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0486par0069	So you're calling the mountain stone a residential place?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0070	I mean, is there a constitutional definition of this?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0487par0071	Even goats don't graze there.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0072	In other words, large settlements are made up of these, or are not included in these, there is no definition here such as these.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0488par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0074	The Constitution does not exist, it is very clear.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0489par0075	Describe the settlement, please!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0076	The constitutionalist left it to the law, so it defines it by law. Obviously, there's no point in commenting on that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0489par0077	Wow, you interpret the Constitution in your own way.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0078	So there's no problem, no problem at this point.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0490par0079	You've changed it with the law before, change it with the law again.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0080	Look, dear friends, with this bill, there is no increase in the powers of the municipalities, in the current powers of the city's municipalities -- look at their authority.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0491par0081	And the friend...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0082	Allow me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0492par0083	Read the law well.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0084	Enlargement of their jurisdiction is at stake.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0493par0085	You're making the power width principle unequivocal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0086	Now, look, wait a second, they're two very different things...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0494par0087	Say something else.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0088	...expanding the powers is one thing, expanding their jurisdiction, physically, geographically, is another.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0495par0089	It's not convincing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0496par0090	You're undermining the principle of authority width.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0091	Now, bringing in the elected governorate would mean expanding the jurisdiction.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0497par0092	The elected mayor's...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0093	Or in other words, it would be a political arrangement.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0497par0094	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0095	Politically speaking, the governor's election arrangement for the governorship means that a political choice in the governing structure should be made.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0497par0096	Nurettin Bey, do you believe what you're saying?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0498par0097	The powers that the governor left are here, and I'll count them, and you'll be embarrassed.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0098	But the expansion of the geographical area of the great city clearly does not have a choice in this sense, in any way, from a distance.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0499par0100	I'm going to take the governor's authority...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0498par0101	The powers taken from the governors are here.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0102	So if this had happened, the jurisdictions of the city's municipalities...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0499par0103	There's governors and trustees in your group, so check with them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0500par0104	Mr. Canikli, please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0105	If he had authorized the elections, then what you said would be true. That's why there's no conflict.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0499par0106	The concepts you use don't fit the management science jargon.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0482par0107	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0501par0109	Yes, Akif Hamzaçebi, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0502par0111	When you say settlement, do you mean move the mountain?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0503par0112	The goats don't graze at our place, Mr. Nurettin...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0504par0113	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I consider this bill a violation of the Constitution in two ways, in terms of some of its provisions. The establishment of a city municipality in 29 cities, or rather the number of cities in the capital city, is a subject we support as the Republican People's Party, and there is no hesitation in that. However, the third sentence of Article 127 of the Constitution shall be the last to be established in private administrative areas for large settlements. This is the Constitutional provisions. The district and the district are not residential, but a property describes construction. The settlement center is where human density is, where the density of settlements is, it's not possible to accept a region of agricultural land as a residential centre, the Constitution doesn't say that. First of all, let's get this straight.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0502par0114	You've given Nurettin Bey the qualifications, and that's what happened.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0504par0115	Yes, let's do it, let's increase the number of city municipalities to 29, but let's not bring up a non-constitutional attitude in the process. The second thing I'm going to say is that I didn't see that you were paying much attention in the debates, that you were expressed on the stand, that you might have overlooked it. Previously, on March 6, 2008, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey adopted a Law 5747. The Law, adopted just before the 2009 local elections, envisioned the formation of a new district and the closure of towns with a population of less than 2,000. Against this, the Constitutional Court has decided to close down municipalities whose population is less than 2,000 -- some municipalities, rather, not all -- on the grounds that, says the Constitutional Court, in its decision 2008 to 153: closure of municipalities in the cultural and tourism ministry's proposal and by the Council of Ministers is contrary to the 2rd and 127th Articles of the Constitution. Now, for once, you have to consider that. In a totalitarian sense, the European Local Governments Autonomous Condition is being put aside, but there is also a Constitutional Court ruling, which is not considered. I can't talk any longer because my time won't allow it. I'm ending my conversation by saying these things. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0121	Thank you. At the end of the talks on the entire bill, there has been no change in my position that there should be no procedural debate on non-constitutionalism.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0123	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0124	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0125	The importance of this law is constantly expressed. Your attitude in the two-day debates that the commission report of this law has not been properly presented, so you're in charge.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0126	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0127	You can't be on the side.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0128	Which side am I on, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0129	It is an obligation to govern, to bring you to the conclusion of the debate on this matter. But before the debate was over, you started interviewing all of them, despite all of our objections, and you left this bench to be invaded. This was the result of your attitude. Now, you've done all their negotiations against my will, and you've done them wrong. When it comes to the end...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0131	What did I do wrong, Mr. Shandir, not understood?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0132	Because our claims that the commission report was not presented in accordance with the procedure of this law are not weighed enough without results.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0133	How much time does it take to discuss enough, Mr. Shandir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0134	That's what we'll decide.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0507par0135	He's got to get to the bottom of this.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0136	Please, I mean... we're talking about this side of the room for two days, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0137	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0138	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0139	See, contrary to the Constitution must indeed be a very important criteria for this Assembly. If there is a claim against the Constitution on a matter, it must be discussed. We asked him to be sent to the Constitutional Commission, and you didn't. The plan needs to be discussed in the budget, and according to the relevant law, you're building cities, boroughs, it needs to be discussed. As a result of our insistence on all of this, I'm afraid you've lost your neutrality at the point of managing these negotiations.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0140	I really don't know which side I'm on, but it's different to you...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0141	So...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0142	I've been different from the BDP, different from the Republican People's Party, different from the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0143	Please, let me finish my words, please don't interrupt me. So, as a group, we've lost confidence in your ability to conduct these negotiations objectively. What if you quit that mission...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0145	So you don't want me to lead, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0147	...or allow the opposition to make these negotiations healthy, give the opposition enough time to explain their views.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0148	I did, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0506par0149	There's no question of a breach of the Constitution in three minutes, Mr. President. That shows your bias.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0150	Sir, I've always given you three minutes in discussions about the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0508par0151	You just gave me five minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0509par0152	Your attitude is not important. The Constitution is more important, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0153	Wait a second, I'm going to explain it, look, I gave you five minutes and one minute to do what you just said so that you could talk more about what we talked about in there, but you...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0154	Mr. President, look, it's not up to you to open up a legal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0155	Well, let's ask him, let's get him to appreciate who's got it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0156	If you don't get past ten minutes, you can give us a time to talk, but your constant appreciation for something very important has taken away our confidence that you can conduct the negotiations on this law objectively.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0157	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0511par0158	It's not a thank you, Mr. President. Do what you have to do, do what you have to do.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0159	Because of this attitude, I'm opening up a legal debate on your attitude according to 63.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0160	Mr. Chancer, what was the argument just now?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0161	It was about the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0162	And what argument is that?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0163	Now it's about your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0512par0164	It's about losing your side.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0165	Mr. Chancer, we've been discussing this side for two days. I...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0166	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0167	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0168	We are discussing a law that we express our concerns that will bring serious dangers to the future of our country and our nation. We're not playing the steel-plot game, we're not playing the opposition game, we're trying to tell you something.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0169	Now, Mr. Shandir, when we open up a discussion of procedure, this time it's being evaluated differently by the AK PARTY, but it's being evaluated differently by another party. Let's find a way to find a position for ourselves.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0170	Look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0171	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0172	In the debate over this commission report, you stated that you were unable to send it back with your legal identity, by stating that you have no authority as acting councilor. That was a statement of attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0173	Mr. Chancer, if I can't explain it again, I mean, it won't be right to consider it any other way, so that's how I put it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0174	I get it, but...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0175	I made it very clear yesterday that I had no authority, no authority.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0176	But you said you'd send it if you had the authority. Which means...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0177	I'm not the one who's talking about this, not the President, but Mr. Glory, you know that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0513par0178	It's you, it's you...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0510par0179	Sir, it shows...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0505par0180	Here you go, Mr. Chancer, three minutes. Here you go. In favor or against?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0514par0182	In favor, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0515par0183	Against...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit08spe0516par0184	Against... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger, and I want the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Ninth Session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll continue negotiations with Bill 338. The commission and the government are in place. Now we're going to open up a discussion of procedure. I'm telling you, I didn't get the transcripts, but I'm going to ask the members of the group, the members of the group of the four parties, one by one. Mr. Buldan, do you have a deal, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0518par0007	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0008	Mr. Chancer, do you have a deal, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0519par0009	Yeah, and sometimes we get along.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0010	Mr. Canikli, you have agreed...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0520par0011	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0012	Mr. Hamzacebi, do you have a deal, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0521par0013	Yeah, it's a deal.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0014	Your Honor, is he against you?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0522par0015	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0016	Mr. Buldan?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0523par0017	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0018	Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0524par0019	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0020	Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0525par0021	It doesn't matter, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0022	In favor?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0525par0023	It doesn't matter if it's in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0024	Yes, in favor of Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk, Mersin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0526par0026	Mr. Birgül Ayman Güler...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0517par0027	Birgül Ayman Güler, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0527par0030	Mr. President, the breach of the Constitution of the bill we discussed is very clear. We said that in the Commission debates. However, the Interior Commission has not been sensitive to taking the matter to the Constitutional Commission. Now, once again, we bring it up. This provision is against the Constitution, and you can build a city municipality for the major settlements, not for the provinces, as of the Constitution's 127, 123, 126, and 126. If the Constitution had said that the form of special government for the cities would have been possible, what had been done in this bill would have been possible. The definition of the new capital city municipality brought in with this bill is organically contrary to the Constitution's Article on local administrations, not for cities. There's nothing interpretable about it. Secondly, Article 123 of the Constitution states that the management of the provinces is based on the width of authority. Turkey is divided into provinces, due to the geography situation, the needs of public services. Now, in accordance with this decree of the Constitution, the administration of the provinces is given to the city municipality based on governance. The provinces can only be governed by the extent of their authority. The extent of authority is not the expansion of powers, sir. The extent of authority is the foundation of central administration and can only be used by governorates and subsidiaries.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0528par0032	Right, you're right.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0527par0033	A change such as expanding authority is not in the framework of this principle. Now, you're bringing the property to the borders of the city city, where you're moving management from central to management, with a management model based on management. Thus, you bring the principle of decentralisation instead of the extent of authority to govern the provinces. Turkey is governed by the principle of centrifugalism, meaning bringing decentralisation; giving up the unitary state means sailing to the federal state. We've been saying it since 2002, we'll keep saying it, along with the evidence.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0529par0037	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0530par0040	Dear friends, I imagine our insistence at this hour of the night has made you tired, upset, perhaps angry, but believe me, there are certain things that can't be tried, no trial of death. This is a law that holds the possibility that the nation's integrity, the political integrity of our state, will be tested. Dear friends, I'm not saying that it's not possible to change state's institutional law -- you know, look at history, look around, look at other countries -- it's possible, but you're destroying the state. France, I believe, lives in the fourth republic. So you're watering down the unitary state structure, which is the establishment law of the Republic of Turkey. As Mr. Hodja said, you're setting sail for the federal structure, the state system. You may have made a promise to the separatists in Oslo, because you may be the Prime Minister's desire to become president, you may want to prepare a legal infrastructure for him, and you may not foresee a bad possibility with it, but dear friends are presented when state law is established, and if you attempt to change it, you will be subject to a very heavy burden. I've told you twice in the Commission, about another matter at this General Assembly last semester. Let me tell you one more time to friends who don't hear, who don't hear, that the established law of the Ottoman State is based on Muslim subjects and the law of non-Muslim subjects. When Islam's Fermani and the non-Muslims -- equal citizen status with Muslims -- changed the law; and Ali Pasha who did this -- who was called one of the last four great Sadrazams of the Ottoman era, the great Ali Pasha -- who was called one of the last four great Sadrazams of the Ottoman era, when he died in 1871. I know we have some eager friends who read and write and know these things. Open up and read it! Ali Paşa had been in the state for eight years, and Ali Pasha had been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a long time, and the congregation of İstanbul Fatih Mosque had not allowed it. Why? For changing the foundation law of the Ottomans. The same fate awaits you. I'm warning you as a friend. Here, Mr. President, who should be sensitive to this...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0531par0044	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0530par0046	It doesn't matter to you, it's state-run law. The state doesn't matter to you, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0532par0047	Of course! That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0531par0048	What does that have to do with anything? If it's important, why don't you pay attention to its importance?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0533par0050	If you say so, but don't rule it out. By watering the university structure, you will destroy this state.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0534par0051	It doesn't happen to the government's singularity.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0535par0052	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0533par0053	Mr. President, we've lost confidence in you, so either don't carry out this mission or take our word for it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0535par0055	Thank you. Lehte, Nurettin Canikli, Giresun MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0059	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I just said that in my speech. I think it should be more detailed, I think it'll be useful. The great concept of settlement is the great concept of settlement in the 127th Amendment of our Constitution. There's no definition in the Constitution. We just talked about it. Does the large settlement cover large cities? It does.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0537par0062	The Constitution says big settlements, Mr. Nurettin. So, now, is this a place of settlement, where there are 38,000 square miles of Konya?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0063	Mr. Chancer, if you'll excuse me. Look, I've listened to you Mr. Shandır, I've listened to you, let me tell you for a second, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0538par0064	What's on the mountain of Toros?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0065	Is that what the major cities are for? It does to me.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0539par0066	And you know that...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0540par0067	You're so funny.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0068	The service here, of course, is being taken to the settlements. You know, it's just been expressed, it's going up 50 times, it's going up 10 times. There's spaces in between, and there's no way to get service there. There's no such expectation, no such purpose. Where will the service be taken, the service will be taken to the settlements. Settlement units may be different, so it could be set up in a large area of geography. So the big residential area definition covers all of this, it's that simple. So I'm going back to my question.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0541par0069	We're not talking money, we're talking government, government, not money.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0070	I'm going back to my question. Does the concept of a large settlement cover major cities? The capsar covers it. In fact, I believe that this statement in the Constitution contains a broader definition of this bill.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0542par0071	What does it involve?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0072	As long as it's not political, look, I'll point out again, again, again, again. In any way, you can expand the broad area definition as much as you want, provided there is no political ruling, no regulation.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0543par0073	You'll be the mayor of Turkey's capital city.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0074	Now, look, my dear friends, the city doesn't get any additional authority from its current powers. Extra-largest cities to collect taxes? That's out of the question.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0544par0075	Not today, not today, what about tomorrow?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0076	Are the cities going to decide health policy? No, it can't be, it can't be.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0544par0077	What happens tomorrow?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0078	Will your educational policy be directed? No, or it could be replicated like this. So what's in central management's field and what's supposed to be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be, should be.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0545par0079	There are promises that we'll transfer the training to the governors and then to the municipalities.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0080	There is no transfer of any of these powers, which are also insured by the university structure. I also told Mr. Shandir some time ago. There's a ruling here, as it is now coming in, that government rights revenues are being transferred to major cities in the mines, and we're going to have a motion on it. That's not true either, see, that's against the principle, it's noticed, we're correcting it now. I told you...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0546par0081	You're correcting one.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0545par0082	You've changed three or four articles in the subcommittee, and now you're changing them here, and you're breaking down when we say six. What kind of preparation is this?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0536par0083	So even first, in the first draft, in the draft, in the bill, about the powers of these mineral rights... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...have been given power to major cities. Now that we've got this, we have a proposal that will allow revenues to be transferred to the general budget. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0547par0088	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0548par0089	Baydemir wanted his cut, why don't you give it to him?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0549par0090	Mr. President, write it on the wall, you'll change that law more. You're going to change this law a lot, and we'll remind you of that.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0550par0091	I'd like to make a statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0551par0092	Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0552par0093	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin, I salute you with respect and love. There's been an argument going on here for two days, but in the end, you all sound like lawyers, but none of you follow the law. This discussion has to come to an end, but today, I can tell you that these discussions are not in accordance with the law. I've been on this stand, twice, three times. We didn't say a word, we said: "Let there be no incident, let there be no unrest." But it seems to me that we are getting to the same point as saying the same thing over and over and over again all the things that have not ended in these talks. This is not the right thing to do. It's twelve o'clock, and when we look at what's been said all this time, what's really wrong with this law is that everyone talks like a lawyer, but where do you connect? So the reviews and evaluations of these commissions have been made as if there were no consequences. If you don't agree, let's send this law back, and if it's going to be destroyed, there's no point in arguing about it, let's move on to the materials and let everyone express their opinion on matter, equal and free. I think it's the most democratic way, and we believe there are no alternatives other than that. My greetings, my compliments.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0096	Thank you. There's been no change in my attitude. Come in, Mr. Guler, you have a request. What do you want to say, Mr. Guler?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0554par0099	I would like to express my opinion on the matter of the capital city-il, which Mr. Canikli has been discussing.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0100	There is no such procedure, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0555par0101	According to 60.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0102	I don't want to discuss...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0556par0103	We're talking about violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0104	I get it. You have spoken your words, Mr. Canikli has spoken his thoughts.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0556par0105	I want a say in Article 60, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0106	Here you go, Mr. Guler.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0556par0107	You started the clock, it's like the clock's running out.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0108	Mr. Guler, start, we'll restart the clock, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0556par0111	Mr. President, Mr. Canikli has made a comment that major cities and municipalities could also mean cities that contain a lot of major residential centres. That's really not an understandable interpretation at all. Because the administrative division units and districts of the administration from the centre of cities in Turkey are a place, not a term for settlement, but an area term. There may be large settlement centers inside, but there may also be small settlement centers. In fact, villages, towns, cities are other settlements within the provinces. There is no logical reason to describe what can be established for large settlements as a large, small, large, urban, rural, unsettled area. We will, of course, make the interpretation of the Constitution based on scientific and actual facts, but I think that those who passed this sentence in the Constitution did not think that any member of parliament at this time would be able to assert a logic called the capital city.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0113	Thank you, Mr. Guler. [[Continue]] The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I hereby submit to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0557par0123	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0124	There's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Şandir, Mr. Günal, Mr. Bal, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Erdogan, Mr. Belen, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Topcu, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Adan, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Gourkulu, Mr. Oğan and Mr. Öz. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin our chapter one interviews. The first chapter covers Articles 1 to 20. There is a motion for the first part of the bill to be discussed in closed session according to Article 70 of the Civil Code. I'm reading the motion for closed session: It is the first law bill in 338 rows. 70th Parliamentary Court of Negotiations over the entire department. On the basis of the additional grounds, we submit that the closed session be carried out in accordance with the article. Ali Halaman Mehmet Şandir Faruk Bal Sadir Won't Stop Enver Virtue Sinan Oğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Rusar Demirel Bkent Belen Ali Öz Kemalettin Yilmaz Seyfetttin Yilmaz Adnan Şişek Güçük Mesut Dedeoğlu Celal Adan Mehmet Günal S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, D. Ali Torlak Zuhal Topcu The audience and the officials who are not members of the General Assembly, who can be present at the closed session, must go outside. I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared. I submit to your votes that sworn stenographers and sworn officers remain in the hall, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0558par0160	We don't understand, Mr. President, what did we vote for?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0559par0161	No one raised a hand! He didn't even understand what he agreed to, he's asking!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0162	I saw it, dear. You didn't look. Shall I tell you how many you've taken, Mr. Günal?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0559par0164	He's asking, no one's picking it up, he's picking it up by three people.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0165	Mr. Günal, you can't see from where you are, sir, I can.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0559par0166	Yes, well, Mr. Group Vice President asked me, "What are we voting for?" None of them raised their hands, who raised their hands and who agreed, Mr. President? Please!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit09spe0553par0167	Members of the press, please... We're going to closed session.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0553par0001	I now open the 11th session after the closed session of the 17th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ali Serindağ is a member of Gaziantep. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Serindağ, please.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0560par0010	Mr. President, invite the press in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0553par0011	Mr. Serindağ, I can invite the next speaker, since you're not here. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0561par0013	You can run it however you want! This is your father's farm, the Clave is yours!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0014	Mr. President, let the press come in, and I'll start my conversation that way.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0553par0015	Please, Mr. Serindağ, press...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0016	Sir, you're in session. Let the press come.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0553par0017	Sit down then, Mr. Serindağ. I'll invite someone else. Please...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0018	Invite the press, sir, or he won't come back.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0553par0019	Mr. Serindağ, in such a manner, such a thing...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0020	Invite the press, or he won't come back.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0553par0021	We don't have a mission like this, sir. Why would I invite the press? Please, Mr. Serindağ, I've rebooted your time.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, lawmakers, this bill has been creating problems since the Great National Assembly of Turkey came to its agenda. This raises the position of Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to present this matter with your appreciation. I'm sorry. Now, Mr. President, the statesmen have to tell the truth. Government men have to tell the public the truth. Mr. Hatip, speaking on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, I'm reading from the report: The costs of municipal tax fees, property taxes, zoning licenses, accession shares will not be taken for five years. Is that so? Isn't the property tax due for five years? Do you think the property tax was taken according to the City's Economics Act? Isn't there a separate law on property tax? These are the paintings and mortars mentioned there, which are collected according to the City Insurance Law. So we have to tell the public the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0563par0026	It's not taken from the village to the neighborhood.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0027	Real estate tax in neighborhoods that turn from village to neighborhood will be taken immediately, and will be taken 100 per cent due to the fact that it is on the city limits. Go find out.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0564par0028	Read the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0029	It is the tax, image, and mortar taken according to the Law on City IRS 2464. (CHP clapping in rows) So tell the people the truth, don't tell the public the wrongs here. Mr. President, this law has come to the Commission's agenda in eight articles, and now we're negotiating in 39. So let's do this: the Justice and Development Party Group does this, and you present all the laws as three articles -- enforcement, enforcement, and the essentials -- go through commissions much earlier, go through much faster, and bring them to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As the Presidential Court, you shouldn't allow any of this. Turkey's President of the Grand National Assembly did not refer this bill to the Constitutional Commission, but referred it to the Plan and Budget Commission in a consultation fight. Neither did the Plan and Budget Commission. My friends who spoke before me explained this law, so you can't discuss it here. You're in violation of the Constitution and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by discussing this law here. Mr. President, everyone knows how things happened in the Commission after it was transferred to the Commission. Even the name of this bill has been changed. The draft was not prepared according to regulations on the basics and regulations. The opinion of concerned public institutions has not been received. The Ministry of Finance and Transport have been replaced by interference from the Ministry of Maritime and Communications. Therefore, this law must be withdrawn again. Now, what does this law bring? This law, especially where you have failed so far, is hoping that you can somehow win this place by changing the borders of the electoral circles. The people will give you the answer you need. Before you, there have been party leaders and political parties playing with election circles, but now they're in their place. So will you. Second, what are you going to do about winning an election? There, the existing rant makes your appetite swell. Because in urban areas, in urban areas, the chance of a runt is slowly coming to an end. Mr. Turtel, read it well, read it well, and come here and apologize to the people, you continue to read it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0565par0035	You guys finish up.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0036	Don't call me Sen. Look, I say you, I say you, don't call me Sen.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0565par0037	I said you, you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0038	My dear friends, you think making a big city is gonna cost you a fortune, don't you? Well, then, what is the fault of the other two provinces, and what is his sin? Aren't they the provinces of this country?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0566par0039	He's a pain in the ass from Antalya, Antalya!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0040	If there's going to be a lot of money, let's make all the cities a big city. Yeah, we're up for that; let's make all the cities a big city.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0567par0041	We're in.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0042	Let's take each province's situation separately, identify the municipal borders, or apply the current law. Let's make all the cities a big city.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0567par0043	We're part of the Pergel Act.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0044	If being a big city is going to improve, let's do it all. I mean, why don't you do the Elazig, why don't you do the Afyon? Why don't you do it because the army lacks 30,000 people?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0568par0045	Ask him and we'll do it.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0569par0046	I wish the Home Secretary was Army! Maybe he'd do his own country!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0047	Let's make all the cities a big city, why don't you? You are changing the order of Turkey with this bill, changing the order of Turkey. What are you guys doing? You are shutting down 54 percent of existing municipalities. Have you ever heard of the strengthening of local governments by shutting down local government units? Then shut down the medical facilities, shut down the hospitals, and you'll be curing health care. Well, if that's the kind of logic you're making, that's what you're doing. Second of all, we have found the practice in Istanbul and in Kopeeli, and we are spreading it throughout all the provinces, you say. Now, look, Istanbul and Marseilles are not the proper scale for all provinces. Before me, a speaker friend explained it to me. A hundred miles [3,500 km] is a hundred miles [40,000 km] in measurement. More than 10 times. From one side, from the east to the west, 530 kilometers from the south, and from the north, three to five miles from the north. In a province that is much larger than Belgium, you appoint a single government in a province that has a similar facial measurement with the Netherlands. I mean, Ionya Metropolitan Municipality is going to serve a village at the top of the Toros! Do you think this could happen? You don't need to go far, Ankara is right in front of you, Ankara is right in front of you. Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has not been able to make the subway in ten years, has not been able to make the subway in ten years, the Transport Ministry has had to take over the subway.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0570par0049	Instead of looking at the great city, look at Chankaya. Look at Chankaya.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0050	You go and see if there are any villages in Ankara Metropolitan Municipality districts that are currently under thepergel law. See if it's gone or not. Is he gone or not?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0571par0051	It doesn't work for them.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0562par0052	That's how you keep people from serving. In accordance with the European Condition of Local Governments! Where's good? Mr. Morning explained. The European Local Governments told the Autonomous Condition that this bill was not appropriate. Birgül Ayman Güler explained it perfectly. Look, with this bill, you're weakening Turkey's unitary structure. How do you weaken it? Now, according to our Constitution, the administration of the provinces is based on the width of authority. The provinces are the rural extensions of central administration. You are now eliminating the central administration's function by leaving the municipal administration to the municipality, so you are in violation of the Constitution. You bring a bill against the Constitution, and you block this bill against the Constitution by invading the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. You already consider the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation as an institution where a formality is being carried out. Today you sit there, tomorrow we sit there or someone else sits there. We all owe it, it's our duty to run the Turkish Parliament of the Great Nation. That's the job of the ruling group in the first place. So let's take Turkey's Grand National Assembly out of being an institution where a formality is being carried out. Let's get Turkey's Grand National Assembly back to its original function, which operates the control and legislature function. That's not how you do it. You don't allow the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to exercise its authority. How come you won't give it to me? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're bringing in this bill, which is considered 8 clauses in the commissions, as 39 articles. You bring in all the bills as the basic law and prevent members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from doing their duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0572par0057	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0573par0058	Mr. President, I have to make a statement because of the bullying. I want a quote from 63.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0574par0059	69... 69...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0573par0060	He said we weren't telling the truth, Mr. Orator. I have to tell the truth. I want a quote from 63. You are not telling the truth. He said, "You are deceiving the people." He said, "You are speaking with my name." Please, I'd like to hear from 63.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0574par0061	Not 63, 69.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0573par0062	I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0575par0063	Here you go, Mr. Türel. I'll give you two minutes. It's your business if you get a new pick-up. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0576par0069	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Serindağ, have stated that taxes will not be lifted in the villages and that this is not part of the law. He accused us of deceiving the people by calling them by my name. I'm just going to read the relevant clause of the law. The 15th joke of the temporary clause states: "In villages whose legal personality has been removed according to this Law, tax, tuition, and participation should not be taken for 5 years according to the Law of City IRS 2464, dated 26/5/1981.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0577par0070	There's no objection. That's true.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0576par0071	Therefore, the law is very clear. I wish it had been called after the law had been read. I pay my respects. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0578par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0579par0076	Here you go, Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0578par0077	Mr. President, I'm going to read what Mr. Tursel said. It's a quote from his own words. It says, "Look, the municipality in the villages that have turned into neighborhoods... "
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0579par0078	No, Mr. Serindağ. Mr. Turtel only read the text of the law, so he didn't say anything about you. But we all listened together. Here's to the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0578par0080	Mr. President, I'm reading it in the transcript. In villages that have turned into neighborhoods, prices such as municipal tax fees, property taxes, zoning licenses, accession shares will not be taken for five years. Now, I ask Mr. Canikli: Is the property tax taken according to Law 2464?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0579par0082	Mr. Serindağ, we have no such procedure, please... Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0578par0084	Sir, why are we out of order?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0579par0085	Yes, it's in the transcripts, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0578par0086	Mr. Turtel said the wrong thing, he didn't tell the people the truth. Find out and come back.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0580par0087	The law is clear, the law.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0578par0088	Find out and come back.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0580par0089	We know it well.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0581par0090	Canic can explain, she asked him, don't make him a victim.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0582par0096	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Erol Dora is a Mardin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0583par0099	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Party for Peace and Democracy to make changes to the Laws and Laws Act 338. I salute the General Assembly. First of all, this bill is fundamentally changing the organisation of the state over the land for twenty-nine provinces. This change is not just an administrative change. In the Constitution, the relationship between central governance-local governments, organised under the principle of integrity of governance, is actually redefined in two different ways. Turkey's economic, social, political and administrative structure is due to a radical transformation based on the Metropolitan-central relations and the municipal system. The bill is an expression of transformation. Local democracy is an area that needs to be developed in Turkey. The democratisation of the local representation system requires the development of mechanisms that will ensure public participation in management. Laws should respond not only to the needs of capital but also to social needs, otherwise the state cannot be spoken of. In Turkey today, the need for public authority is no more, it is never the concentration of more power in one hand, but what the public needs is more democracy, a public democracy. This bill has turned the dream of democracy into a nightmare in Turkey. Even at the right level, the rights of the villagers and the people of the city to rule themselves are being taken from you. The bill, as it is not democratic, also eliminates the existence of local government. Mr. President, the bill is based on the claim that better-quality services will be offered with less resources due to the capital city model and the scale economies. In Turkey, however, major urban practices are available in industrialised and structurally integrated cities, such as Istanbul and Schepeli, which do not show much resemblance to other cities. Has this pilot reduced service costs in major cities? When the service scale is extended, it will be impossible to provide public transportation, treatment, numbering and so on. This model will cause the disruption of municipal services and the overpriced cost of services. As a matter of fact, the bill does not contain sufficient solutions to fiscal improbability. The growth of the scale and increased tasks are bound to make the pressure of debt on the cities unbearable. On the other hand, the bill cited the need for strong decentralisation structures that can produce services on an optimal scale, in terms of management, planning and co-ordination, as a limit of municipal property. It is thus suggested that resources can be used effectively and efficiently. There has yet to be a scale service analysis of the Istanbul and Alexei application. For example, what problem will the growth of the scale solve in terms of the current ministry? What problems have the implementation of the capital city that has been going on since 2004 in Istanbul and Marseilles solved, which practice is intended to be popularized? Mr. President, the legal personality of villages and towns within the borders of the cities of 29 districts has been cancelled; villages have joined the municipality of the district, along with its neighborhoods. The bill ends the corporate personality of 1,591 districts and 16,082 villages, and the special administrations of 29 provinces are also removed. The bill combines urban settlement management with rural settlement management. When the bill is passed, 75 percent of the population, 56 million people, will live in 29 major cities. Thus, the potential consequences of this practice should be realistic, including social actors. In addition to removing the corporate personalities of the local government units, their property is also being purged. This is also a violation of property rights. Both their personalities and property are being destroyed. The constitution separates central administration and local administration and regulates Turkey's administration based on this distinction. According to the Constitution, local administrations are public legal personalities created by voters to meet the local needs of the people of the province, the municipality and the village. The central administration is organised to perform public services at the national level. In the central administration's units, executives are determined not by choice, but by appointment. Therefore, the central management department cannot carry out the duties of an organised local administration unit, which has been elected and has been organised to meet local needs. Moreover, it is not clear which central administration unit is to be fulfilled. In this way, the bill is the design of chaos in the administration. The bill that stands in front of us will not be possible for the balanced planning of public services. The 1982 Constitution predicts that a special management model can be brought for major cities. However, the capital city model and administration of the provinces have no constitutional basis. A large-city management model that undermines the province's general administration will create problems in terms of public service, removing local governance, municipal private administrations. How will the planning of public services be done in the Metropolitan model? For example, is education a central service or a local service? Would the public like to receive education from the mayor or from the central government? Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the bill ignores the importance of the cities. The Metropolitan model is eliminating municipal administration. Local municipalities and villages are the closest local government units to the public. It is against democratic state policy to remove the corporate personalities of these administrative units without asking the people living in the villages and in the villages. The conditions for autonomy in Europe are based on the principle that the service to the people is given by the nearest administrative units. It must not be forgotten that Turkey was one of the first states to sign this condition. Local municipalities are the governments that should not be abandoned in terms of the public's access and service scale. At the Belgrade level, instead of eliminating the authority of the local population, these management units should be chosen to strengthen them administratively and financially. Those who live within the borders of the settlement must decide how to resolve their common problems. This bill means that the peasant has lost all rights to govern his own habitat. The dismantling of the village sign will not improve the village's life, nor will it make it worse. The 2/B Law, both known as 6292 and other laws, transfers the entire number of treasures and areas 2/B to municipalities, or to municipalities, as part of the transfer of the local transformation, to municipalities, as a result of the opening of these fields into urbanization. Small-income peasants who live on agriculture and livestock in the event that the village lands are determined as a project area and urban transformation zone will not get any part of this runt, even though their land is valued. Villages that work in agriculture and livestock, use water for free, have tax exemptions, will become more expensive for the villagers because they have lost these rights and exemptions. There will be no animal activity in these areas. The economic activity of the people living in the village is restricted. It will be easier for forest villages to open urban Ranta. In the development areas of the cities, especially in Istanbul and in the borders of Kopeeli, forest villages are attractive settlements for Istanbul society because they are near the centre and virgins. So forest villages are a popular project area for municipalities. Since the forest peasant would like to continue living here, and the authority of the village's corporate personalities due to the Village Law could be an obstacle to the implementation of these projects, forest villages are expected to be removed. The forest village and forest village will be moved from these areas to new, luxurious settlements within the forest for higher income groups. The number of major cities can be increased once the problems of the current large-city management model have been analysed and the solution to problems are developed, but the model of a major urban settlement and rural settlement is a model that should be rejected by us, which melts in the metropolitan city administration model. I salute you all again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0584par0121	Thank you. Enver Erdem, Elazığ MP, asking for the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0585par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on part one of the First Amendment to the Law and Laws Act 338. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a strange situation here now. This time of night... now we've talked about it on the subcommittee and the Commission too much. Here's the thing: this, this bill you've brought is contrary to our constitution, our understanding, but unfortunately, it's not against your constitution or your constitution. Now, this arrangement is against our rules of the Civil Code, not against yours, in accordance with yours. Again, this arrangement is against our nation's understanding, but it's not against your nation's understanding, it's against our nation's. To us, this arrangement divides the country, and to you, it does not result. We believe this arrangement is the demands of the PKK, Oslo, the BDP, even the terrorist leader, Ocalan. According to you, the Prime Minister's request. Black for us, white for you!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0586par0127	Why are you adding BDP?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0587par0128	BDP is against it, too.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0585par0129	We have the same beliefs, we have the same education, we have the same opinions, but we have this situation in all the arrangements. Now, so to speak, you, the valued lawmakers, as the AK PARTY Group, are in a state where you're driving through traffic, driving on other routes like a truck with a busted brakes, walking, driving, driving, running away. You do not follow the signs of the traffic, nor do you follow the signs. So the accident here is inevitable, my friends. That's not gonna happen, I'm telling you honestly, that's not gonna happen. So the Constitution is being evaluated for violation of the Constitution, no one's hair is being moved, Mr. President of the Interior Commission, a man who has been involved in this for many years -- one hundred percent contrary to six or seven articles of the Constitution, according to my constitution, or, in my view, here, our Parliamentary Vice President is not contrary to the Constitution, but against the Civil Charter, according to me. I mean, there's no way to accept that, precious MPs. The concept of the capital city... it has just been told, Mr. Group Deputy President, even though he is a financier, that the Constitution and the law, the administrative system, are so well understood that he says, "This is the condition of a settlement of the Constitution in Article 127, which has reached a certain size according to me. So not according to me, brother, but according to the law, it is what it is according to the Constitution. And there he suggests that the cities that have reached a certain size should be the capital city, which should be. Isn't that what our old Metropolitan Law was doing? Remember, the population is 750 thousand to ensure the integrity of the plan, co-ordination of infrastructure investments, to run in a planned, programed way, so how will he explain it? Now let the Group Vice President explain. Previously, the city's central population could be a city of 750 thousand. So the size of this settlement is what the law and the Constitution predicted. Now, with this arrangement, dear friends, my knowledge of Elizıg is 410,000 people, and this will not be a city. Look, in Turkey, Elazıg will not be a capital city with the size of the city, which is the 22nd largest, but there will be 60,000 inhabitants of Mughla or the southeastern Mardin capital. Well, if that's a good thing, let's think about it from your point of view -- would it suit you guys? So you're going to make a city of 60,000 people a capital city, the province of Sivas, 354,000 people, and the province of Batman, 355,000 people, you're not going to make it a capital city. Well, won't you be violating the rights and laws of the people who live there? So now you see it as a simple thing. And if you're doing a good thing, then do it fairly. There's no justice here either.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0588par0133	Sivas MPs, Elaziğ, Batman lawmakers, why don't they come out and say that?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0589par0134	He can't say, they've been silenced.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0590par0135	They've been silenced, silenced!
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0136	Now, why are laws made? When we look at lawmakers, they are made to solve some of the problems of society.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0592par0137	I mean, why are you taking advantage of the Army?
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0138	Well, with orders and instructions like yours, by order and order from abroad, there are no laws here at this time of night, parallel to it, according to its orders. If there are shortcomings in our administrative system, if there are problems with them, the tradition of building 5,000-year-old Turkish states, the experience of managing the world, the experience of managing the world, the experience that we've earned over 100 years of republican history, of course, we need to repair the shortcomings of our administrative system, the laws are made for this, but in accordance with such orders and directives, there are no laws made against the nation, precious MPs. Now, if this arrangement were a well-intentioned arrangement... I just told you, the time goes by quickly -- it goes against at least 6-7 of the Constitution. It'll take maybe half an hour, an hour, one at a time, because I know that not everyone here is a lawyer. But everyone must understand, is the Constitution against it, or not? This arrangement is not just a spontaneous arrangement, it's a valuable lawmakers. First the District Court in Diyarbakır, then the development agencies, then the criminal courts, the district criminal courts, the review of the federal system in the United States, the new Constitutional studies, the presidential system... With such a one-day, make-up slide arrangement, you will change Turkey's administrative system completely, with just a reference to the city law, with a change of the administrative system and so on. It's a shame, I mean, people are laughing at you. If you love your God, don't do this. Now, does this arrangement solve our nation's problems, friends? It doesn't solve our nation's problems. Now, these regulations... there are real goals to the law, and there are friends, political purposes to the law. It's not written in the law. Now, Mr. Deputy Director Canikli just said: "We, referring to the Mining Law, are the transfer of the share of the state's private administration in the Mining Law and the state's rights to these units for the sale of 5 per cent of these mines at the beginning of January. We'll fix it. He said. It's not just that...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0593par0144	That's how much we objected to the commission.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0145	That's all we said in the Commission, not only that, but there are a lot of hidden goals here, my friends. Look, this one, this one... now, with new administrative units under the name of the city, you're going to remove the villages, you're going to remove the cities. Friends, will you or will you not remove the police force in this area? Now, how about the police in the big city? The gendarme is a unit in the countryside. Now, when Turkey has a problem with terrorism, you bring such an arrangement that will weaken its hand and weaken us against terrorism. Who do you feed it to, who do you sell it to? Now, the gendarmes' organization will serve in the countryside, where you are in the capital city, where the gendarmes' organization can only look there temporarily with a protocol of the governor, the police chief and the commander of the gendarmes. After that? After that, you will remove the gendarme from there. What else? You'll also remove the ranger system there. Well, dear MPs, I sincerely ask...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0594par0147	He'll be a country cop, then.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0148	So we have enough of these issues to give them their education, so relax, we know what you want to do, but what you really want to do is that the city has the authority to set up a police officer in that area, the police. And you'll have to excuse me for employing those terrorists from the mountain you're going to call the self-defense force -- you're going to bring him down soon.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0595par0149	That's right. One step at a time.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0150	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these are pieces of the puzzle.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0596par0151	You don't have to be sensitive.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0152	We know where you come from, we know what you want to do. You don't have to say anything.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0596par0153	Don't go into Iraq.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0597par0154	You also denied negotiations with the PKK.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0591par0155	So, these are the pieces of the puzzle, valued MPs. Now, we're going to talk long in every area along this law, God willing, but if it concerns your hidden intentions, I'll present them in my next speech as a whole. So, the Oslo process that asked you to remove the village ranger system wants this, wants a memorandum of understanding, wants a road map. You have to do this. They're binding, and we know that. You will carry out your orders, your orders. Therefore, I would like to see this arrangement withdrawn immediately, the unitary structure of Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the unitary structure of this nation...
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0598par0159	Don't give alazig his rights.
tbmm-2012-11-07sit11spe0599par0160	Thank you. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
