tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0008	Mr. President, according to Article 58, I have a false statement in the last report, sir, and I'd like to explain it. I want a promise at the beginning of the merger according to Article 58.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0003par0009	Last report summary...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0010	About the last report, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0004par0011	Here you go, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, in a meeting that I made here yesterday, when I was talking about something about Oslo talks... here it is, Mr. Recep, you know... the opposition parties, you've spoken to the PKK. When Mr. Tayyip spoke about some questions like that, he said at the time: "He is a bastard and a scoundrel who doesn't prove them." I said, "He is a bastard and a scoundrel." After that, did it turn out that Mr. Recep and members of the PKK were seeing each other? However, it turns out that Tayyip Bey -- not himself -- was meeting with PKK representatives. There was a statement here that the PKK members were meeting with him, while I should have said so. That's because, of course, when we're up here on the stand, we're being yelled at from all sides, and when we're spoken to, of course, there's no way we can explain our goals here in a short way. In addition, my speech here shows that the MIT was involved in some of the deaths, but I'm expressing the statement of the prosecutor, who did not go despite the fact that he invited Hakan Fidan (Hakan) and some of the members of the MİSCE to take part in his statement. Otherwise, the point of my conversation here is not that at any point, members of the M.I.S. have committed a crime or participated in any matter of death. In that respect, I want to fix it this way, but friends, something even worse: Now, as I was talking here, at least 10 people from the AKP rankings have spoken to me. I've got the report, not a word, no noise in the AKP rows. It doesn't happen! (x) The statement of this statement was found on page 91, page 66, dated 15/2/2012. Now, I've talked to the Director of Records, and he says, "These microphones are cutting across the line." E, you have to get in front of this one if it's cutting it off. When we get here, at least 10 AKP people talk to me, insult me, say harsh words, not in the transcripts. What I normally understand from this is that the AKP people are threatening the employees in the report. They say, "Don't show these words." I mean, would that happen?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0005par0019	Mr. President, this is an insult to you and to the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0020	Sir, it's the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0005par0021	Mr. President, this is an insult to the Presidential Court.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0022	The Presidential Court, I remind you now. Now, my dear friends, look, I want to point out...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0005par0024	It's not fair to our stenographer friends.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0025	Recep Bey had an account: let us negotiate with the PKK before the June 12th elections, we win the election, then we act as he pleases... in the ceasefires, in talks with representatives of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) they always say: Cease fire until June 16th. There's an election on June 12th. So it seems here that Recep Erdogan has resorted to every means necessary to win the election. He's resorted to all sorts of illegitimate ways, cures, and so that's what was done there in the election. Now the AKP people say that we represent the nation here. 57 MPs among you are the kidnappers, the kidnappers. Now, if we don't get 26 percent of the vote, we get 26 percent of the vote, we have 135 MPs. How much did you get? You got 49 percent of the vote. So your number of MPs in this Parliament is between 265 (270) and 270, but you're coming with 326 MPs. This one's 57-58. It's replaced by someone else. You're here because of the choice the Cunta brought in. And you are not a party of those who have come with the right course. Therefore, these 57 MPs are here with an unfair vote to change Turkey's regime. You don't represent national will. It's impossible for 57 MPs to come here, depending on the vote you took. You've come here through extortion, because of that illegitimate election law in the Law of Elections.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0006par0027	According to that calculation, you can't be a congressman either.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0028	So if it were a fair choice, you wouldn't be able to come to power alone. In that sense, we represent the national will here. Let go of your nonsense, and there are over 50 percent of the vote of opposition here. So if this is the Constitutional Amendment here, if this is the Civil Law, if this is the Law, and if this is the regime, let's do this thing. This is what we're going to see today, the Prime Minister, who has already established a dictatorship. You have brought a man from Hamas to the Greens who killed some innocent people.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0007par0031	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0002par0032	Why did you bring these men? Here are the instructions, they'll kill people.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0007par0034	Mr. Young, thank you. Members of parliament, what Mr. Youth has pointed out is that, in fact, it offends our Presidential Court. We know that our fellow officials, who have filed a report, are holding them with all their precision, and from now on, they will hold them with all their precision. There has never been any pressure on those who have filed a report in this House, nor should there be. We can't accept such a thing. Friends with records know their duties very well, they don't miss a line, you all know that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0008par0038	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0007par0039	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0008par0040	Mr. President, the speaker who was speaking on the stand just now said that the EC PARTI ruling also adopted illegitimate ways to win the elections before the June 12th elections, and that they were allowed to do so. I want to clarify.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0007par0042	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0008par0046	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Turkey moved from 1946 to 1946 to multi-party life. The 1946 elections entered history as a black mark. From 1950, the elections to this side emerged from significant developments in multi-party political life, and in the elections, various allegations, suspects, but were determined by the judiciary that none of them were on the premises. Everyone should know clearly and clearly that from the day it was founded, the people's hearts were strengthened, and the people's hearts were conquered by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's EC PARTI ruling rose from every election in the history of the republic, undetected, but unfortunately, the opposition lawmakers are trying to emulate their own incompetence, their own failures, by slandering others. Look, there's just been an account. One of the reasons for this account is the Election Law and the Constitution. We didn't make the Law of Choice, we didn't make the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0009par0050	Why don't you change it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0008par0051	You were a member of the assembly of the closeness of the constitution. You came to me in that council -- you said -- you made me stand firm in my administration. Then you voted for them in the Election Law, at that time, when you were a member of parliament, when you were a member of parliament. A ten per cent threshold has also emerged, with an arrangement within the framework of these votes. With this dam, neither the Republican People's Party nor the other parties have made any sense of it because of the Election Law. Look, valuable lawmakers, there has been no change in the EC PARTI administration regarding the regulation of the Election Law. We've made a comprehensive change in the 23rd term, just in terms of the safety of the elections...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0010par0054	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0008par0055	...and this arrangement allowed the elections in the 24th-century Parliament to pass in a healthier way. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0011par0058	Mr. President, they've been in power for ten years. Isn't this the place that digests the election law accepted by the helpless junta? Why don't you change the Law of Choice?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0008par0059	I don't talk to you, I don't talk about you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0011par0060	I don't give a damn about you either!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0012par0061	Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Manisa MP Sakine Öz (the first person who wants to talk about the problems of territorial industrialists operating in Manisa Province). Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0013par0068	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, our country is locked up in a law killing by the AKP's government to prevent the judiciary from doing its job. Unfortunately, in this hum, the workers, the workers' agendas, the demands of the business world are not heard. In contrast, poverty and unemployment fever are all over Turkey. The public is waiting for a solution. The government, which needs to be resolved, is trying to hit democracy with personal laws, rather than a cure for the problems of millions of people. I'd like to pass on to you the problems of an industry, the Earth Industries in Manisa, that struggles to survive, in the hope that we may be able to listen to the problems that concern thousands instead of a few. Salihli and Turgutlu are two of Turkey's largest districts, not just Manisa. Brick and tile factories are one of the most important businesses in these two counties. Given the number of unemployment in Turkey, it is very important that the chimneys of these factories are still smoking. Since the land industry in these two counties has been an important business since the past, many of our people have earned their pension rights working in brick and tile factories. In fact, the number of these factories has been many in the past, but now forty-six have survived. However, about 20 per cent of the country's need for clay material is covered by these counties. Moreover, exports from the region are at significant levels. Members of parliament, the problems with these firms concern 20,000 people when it comes to jobs associated with land industry and their families. In fact, there's nothing wrong with factories that play such an important role that can't be solved. Our industrialists only want to take back recent missteps. These factories in Salihli and Turgutlu are used to cook brick and tile products. Our industrialists provide most of these coal demands from the Aegean Line. Since coal companies have been employed in social welfare funds in recent years, these factories have not been satisfied with their demands. For example, the need for coal is around 170,000 tonnes a year. How much do you think T.K.I. is paying? 54,000 tons. 170,000 where, 54 thousand where! In other words, go to the industrialist, where you can buy coal. Factorys are forced to buy coal from outside companies, which are more expensive than TKI. In recent years, T.C.I. has been supplying coal with three months of guarantees, and now it's starting to give coal to our industrialists in advance. All these negative developments have only been announced and implemented to contract buyers a day ago. The firms have been victims of this situation. In addition, in the last year, the coal prices used by our factories have increased by 28 per cent and the price of electricity by 25 per cent. These raises have no explanation. These increases mean nothing more than bending the back of brick and tile manufacturers. No one has the right to lock the doors of these factories. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to address one of the major problems of the land industry. Since 2005, the soil clay, which is tile and brick raw, began to count as a mine. So the registration and permits were transferred to the General Directorate of Mining Affairs. These licenses may result in nine to 12 months, making the long process difficult for factories that have to produce continuously. So brick and tile manufacturers demand that clay be removed from the Mining Law and arranged in accordance with the Order of the Stone Januarys. They also want to be considered by saying that they have a hard time keeping up with the legislation that is often changing in terms of raw materials and solid fuels. Dear lawmakers, putting factories in trouble in one area is actually putting all the people in that area in trouble.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0014par0076	Thank you, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0013par0077	We expect the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources to solve the problems of brick and tile factories. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0014par0080	The second non-responsive statement belongs to Izmir MP Rıfat Sait, who wants to talk about independence Day of the Republic of Kosovo and the relations of Turkey-Balkan countries. Here you go, Mr. Sait.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0015par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs tomorrow (February 17th) are friends and brothers, the 4th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Kosovo. I have taken this opportunity to make a promise. I salute you all. Kosovo announced its independence on 17 February 2008, making a big noise in the world. The fact that Kosovo left Serbia and made such a decision has made a significant impact, leading to an important process in the Balkans. Kosovo's independence decision has been legitimised by a resolution made by the International Court of Justice in the Netherlands. As of now, eighty-seven countries have recognised Kosovo, and one of the first countries to recognise Kosovo is the Republic of Turkey. Turkey's recognition of Kosovo was first perceived differently in the world's public, as in ancient governments, it seemed difficult for Turkey to make such a decision. The recognition of Kosovo (Kosovo) in the United States and many European countries strengthens Kosovo's independence. In September, we were in New York with our Prime Minister for the meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations, and it was stated that the United Nations General Assembly would give a speech. I asked our Prime Minister to say a few words for Kosovo, and he didn't offend us. He also mentioned Prime Minister and Kosovo. When Kosovo spoke of beautiful words about recognition, we were proud, we were truly happy. Kosovo is also the home of the late Mehmet Aqif Ersoy, an Istiklal March writer of the Republic of Turkey. Kosovo is the father of Sami, the author of the first Turkish dictionary, Hemsettin Sami. Kosovo, which we conquered in 1389 exactly sixty-four years before Istanbul, is an Anatolian, in fact Rumeliyal, son of a conqueror, an heirloom of Sultan Murat Hüdavendigar. Murat Hüdavendigar, who was killed during the conquest of Kosovo, is in Kosovo, Sultan Murat Turbesi. Kosovo has many Ottoman works. We lost Kosovo this year in the Balkan wars of 1912, in 1912-1913, during which the Balkan wars and the Balkan migrations began. These migrations have really impressed us. A hundred years later today, 2012, we wish peace in the Balkans, a year of tolerance in the world. And on this occasion, I would like to point out that the Balkan NGOs in Turkey will also have an event of up to 100. In Kosovo, 50,000 Turkish relatives and 2 million Albanian brothers and sisters we consider friends and brothers live in Kosovo. These are Muslims, Kosovo is a Muslim country. Kosovo, the 49th youngest country in Europe, is a strategic country of the Balkans. Kosovo also shows that it is an important country with its gold, silver, lignite and even uranium mines. Along with the land of Prizren-Durs, a Turkish company has recently built, Kosovo's port has made it a logistical centre in the Balkans. This logistical centre also makes Kosovo a commercial centre for Serbia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Kosovo, the United Nations also serves as Turkish military and police within the Kosovo Peace Corps. Also, other than our ambassador, there are TİKA, Foreign Turkish President, Yunus Emre Institute offices, and Turkey has significant effects in Kosovo. Kosovo also has a Turkish firm, which is close to 50. One of them runs the Kosovo airport by a Turkish company. We expect all friendly countries, especially the Islamic countries and Turkish republics, to recognise Kosovo, which eighty-seven countries have known so far. Friend and sister country Kosovo celebrates the fourth anniversary of its republic, wishing for more successful and prosperous years. I'd like to end with the following poems of our future poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy, whose father is Kosovo. Three million people, to the trouble of three brainless heads, Look how it's chopped. Get up, Dad, get up from your grave! If only a memory could be left alive in this land The earth has been split apart, the ground has fallen, the shrines of doubt. Wherever I am, there's a bloody plain Is it you, or is it your dream? Unpatriotic Kosovo! From here, I salute you and all of your sons, the conqueror. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. Sait. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked for a statement on the location and implementation of private courts in Turkish law. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0017par0111	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the implementation of Turkish law enforcement by special authority courts established and operated under Articles 250, 251 and 252 of the Penal Code. I salute you all. My dear friends, as we all know, before Article 250, 251 and 252 of the Penal Code, these special competent courts were active in Turkey before they were established. However, due to the violations of the civil rights courts in the social opposition and Turkey, the European Court of Human Rights sentenced Turkey to compensation has forced the removal of these state security courts. First, a military person was withdrawn from these courts, and then the state security courts were removed, so-called, and the Constitutional Court of Security was removed from the establishment of the state security courts. However, special authorities, such as these, instead of state security courts, which covered 250, 251, and 252, of the Penal Code, which was adopted in 2005, were violated by special authorities, heavy criminal courts. At that time, it would be clear that we, the Republican People's Party Group, were openly opposed to these three articles regarding the establishment of special authorities' courts when we opened the minutes of the 2004 Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The events of that day have shown that special authorities have not actually fulfilled the purpose they are expected to have become production centers that produce lawlessness and pleasure. The special official criminal courts have actually acted on the sacred law of the state, rather than on the free law of the citizen. Special officials have received political references to the criminal courts where they will be referred to by law. Sometimes they're governed and manipulated by politics, and sometimes they're tasked with designing politics by replacing the legislature themselves. The European Court of Human Rights has also ignored the rules of the existing Penal Code, as they have disregarded international rules of law, and these special authorities have now become a right, lawless, unbridled force. Special authorities have become courts that enforce the law of power rather than apply the power of law, acting according to the conjunctive, have lost their neutrality, are no longer special, they have become a general court. There are no special jurisdictional courts within our judicial system. My dear friends have gained strength today in the ruling front, both for the opposition front and for the special authorities in the legal circles, to be removed. And the recent debates between the special authorities and the MIT, especially in the name of democracy, have now begun to dominate everyone, with the general belief that such a bilateral rule of law would not work. In fact, in the government, Minister Ertugrul Günay told Utku Çakırözer. In his statement yesterday in Cumhuriyet daily, the special authorities said that the courts had turned into state security courts, that they had not enforced the law and that they were inclined to be removed. In fact, of course, I would like to agree with Mr. Minister's opinion, but I would like to say that the special authorities did not actually turn into state security courts, it was already state security courts, they never made a liberal comment, as I said, based on the sacred law of the state. So in order for us to put an end to these discussions, we need to remove the special court of authority. We don't need heroic prosecutors, heroic judges, we don't need special people. I'm saying we need law-abiding, law-abiding judges and prosecutors. Therefore, I believe our proposal for the lifting of the special authorities' courts should be supported and the special court must be removed from the Turkish legal system. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0018par0121	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of searching for the problems of our pensioners, which have reached 9 million in numbers in our country, equalizing their base months, resolving their salary differences, contributing to health care, and identifying the victims of similar practices, such as very low pay hikes, and resolving these problems and resolving the solutions of our Constitution's 98th and Integration 104th and 105th. We offer and offer the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to its provisions. In our country, pensioners and their widows and orphans are at the top of the most heavily paid bills for the economic crisis that deeply affects every country. Even in today's conditions, the situation of our pensioners, who have to look after their children who have lost their jobs, is pathetic. Before the economic crisis, our pensioners are among the most vulnerable, and similar practices, such as the inequality of the Intibakak Act, which can be removed from behind the inequalities of pensions that sometimes move to the agenda but do not end, are among the major factors in our pensions' loss, due to a number of miscalculations, a contribution to health, and what is considered to be funny. In accordance with the 5510 Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act, the increase in pensions is determined according to the inflation rate of the previous six months. According to this, the increase also increased between workers and workers' pensioners and their widows' widows and orphans from 8 to 11 euros as of July 2009. The pensioners were given a raise of 8-11 liras, while in September 2009, pensioners' health care contributions were raised by up to $15. A six-month pension raise will not even cover the contribution of a one-time examination. While 90 per cent of the SSC and BUG-KUR pensioners struggled to live on their wages below the hunger limit, our pensioners who had to go to the hospital five or 10 times a month received a new blow, while they waited for the removal of their contribution to health care. The pensioner's pensioners are no different from the SSC and BUG-KUR pensioners. However, in the present economic crisis, pensioners who are left unemployed and even have to care for their child's family are suffering a serious loss. In particular, SEC and BUG-KUR pensioners were already in great straits because of the lack of incentives, while their monthly loss of acquisition power has become a struggle for survival. According to the law presented in social security as reform and which raises social security institutions under one roof, there appears to be no change involved in removing the victims of pensioners. Although a general improvement and equality for pensioners is always said that norm and standard unity cannot be achieved without being brought to the lower border monthly, there is no solution with this law. In the current situation, the fact that the very low percentage increases given to pensioners are a system that does not protect pensions financially, and changes that will enable the equality of lower border pensions in all three social security areas must be rushed. In the interest of searching for the problems that our pensioners are facing, which are numbering 9 million in our country, equalizing their base months, resolving their salary differences, contributing to health care, and identifying the victims of similar practices, such as very low pay hikes, and resolving these problems and resolving solutions, our constitution is 98 and 104 and 105 of the Institution. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 16) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of Act 3269, Specialist Erbass of the Turkish Armed Forces was launched in 1986. However, in the first stage, arrangements without consideration for future problems have brought with them great social and economic difficulties over the years. In order to determine the problems and measures that may be taken as a result of the Specialist Erbass implementation, I would like to submit a parliamentary investigation under Article 98 of the Constitution and Article 104 and 105 of the Turkish Parliament's internal charter. Specialist Erbaş employment has been launched in the Turkish Armed Forces under Law 3269 since 1986. However, there has been no regulation on the problems that have arisen in the past period of time regarding Specialists, as well as the increasing amount of Specialist Erbaş, the problems have increased. In December 2009, the issues considered by the Chief of Staff were brought to the attention of a weekly press release to address the victims. The same issues were sent to the Ministry of National Defense on April 2, 2009, in writing. The most important victim is that Specialist Privates, who are 45 years of age, are being rescinded from their contract and are being thrown out on the street with family members. The number of people who are forced to leave without retirement because they are 45 years old and who have been thrown out of the street with family members is increasing by the usual year. In the new Social Security Act, the application of the age limit has raised concerns about this. The change in the 28 July 2003 and the 27302 Official Newspaper is below: "In this respect, those who want to be employed as state officials in public institutions and institutions must apply to the public institutions and institutions that are seeking to be appointed as public officials, because of their loss of health or because they have reached the age of 45, because of their end of their term." The above amendment, however, envisioned job applications are ignored by public institutions and organisations and are left unanswered or answerable. The most important problems with Specialist Private practice are below. - Enhancing the retirement age of Specialist Privates - The jobs of the separatists in public institutions and corporations. - The use of changes to be made to those who had to leave in the past because of the age limit. At the end of certain service periods, they can advance to rank as other Turkish Armed Forces personnel. - When they're grounded, at least after certain service periods, a more flexible and tolerant practice will be carried out. A system similar to other members of the Turkish Armed Forces in regard to their dedication. - In accordance with the principle of equality, they should be able to use the basics of other Turkish Armed Forces personnel after certain service periods. - The improvement of social and economic problems. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elazığ]] [[Kütahya]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] 13) Durmiş Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In search of the January 29th events and the situation of the Western Thracian Turkish Minority and their problems on the additional grounds they are currently living, we have a 98th Constitution to determine the measures that can be taken. And the Civil Charter 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. The events of January 29th occurred as a result of long-standing human rights violations of the Muslim Turkish Minority in West Thrace, which have become unbearable due to long-standing pressures and injustices. Although the rights of the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish minority were guaranteed by the Treaty of Lausanne, signed on 24 July 1923, there were violations of rights in many areas as a result of policies and regulations over time. The main issues facing the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish Minority (Turkish Identity's Reddi 2-Education Problems 3- Pressures on Religion and Faith 4-Vacifes 5- Economic Pressures 6-Civilization Applications) can be described as the basic issues of the 1-Turkish I.D. Today, around 150,000 Muslim Turkish minorities live in Greece, most of them in Western Thrace. The 1923 Lauzan Peace Agreement, which determines the status of the Turkish minority, is still in force, as well as taking away many of the rights from Greece's Supreme Court due to oppressive policies, and a resistance over this resolution, which meant the denial of their national identity by the Western Thracian Turkish Minority on 29 January 1988, when the Greek High Court decided to shut down all Turkish associations on the basis of "There is no Turk in Western Thrace." Turkish-owned land may be sown with various grounds and regulations. The land of our descendants, who left West Thrace for various reasons, was considered treasured by the laws that were laid out. With the laws adopted after the exchange, many Turkish farms were nationalized and distributed to the landless Greek people. Since Greek offices were left with aerial photos in 1932-1933, they took the fields with no produce and brought thousands of acres of soybean land into the treasury in this way. In 1952, the land reform and many lands were nationalized and distributed to the so-called landless Greek peasant, some of the articles of the housing law were changed, and the land of our relatives, who went abroad without permission and without passports, was treasured. These practices continued on April 21, 1967, under the junta administration that took over Greece, and around 10,000 acres of land in the Turkish busy village of Little Doğanca were obligatory and distributed to Greek farmers in neighbouring villages. It is possible to increase examples of these unjust practices. After 1923, the land in West Thrace was unfairly changed by the Greek state against the Muslim Turkish minority. According to official statistics from the Lauzan Peace Conference in 1923, the lands held by the Western Thracian Muslim Turkish Minority constitute 84% of the region's operational land, while policies and right violations have been reduced to 25% today. In order for the end of injustices caused by the West Thracian Turkish minority, the measures to help them address their problems, our Constitution is 98. And the Civil Charter 104 and 105. It would be appropriate to establish a Parliamentary Research Commission according to its provisions. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kastamon]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, I'm going to make a short promise to lawmakers who have now entered the system according to Article 60 of the Civil Code. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0019par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Two of our ministers from the Council of Ministers are here. I hope they'll tell the minister about the questions I'm going to ask. As it is known, public institutions and corporations are required to employ 44,189 disabled staff, but how many disabled employees are still employed in public institutions and institutions? How open is there? When does the government plan to fill this gap? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0020par0311	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0021par0314	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State is here, and Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz is here, and I'd like him to listen. This year we're all -- we're next door to his constituency -- we're having a disaster; there's serious snow, all the village roads are closed. We get hundreds of calls every day. In my constituency, I assure you, there are villages that haven't been cleared for 20 days. Now, I don't know how you came up with a formula in Bingol, but all of our neighboring provinces have the same disaster. We're really short on what's called an Anatolian. I mean, people are miserable. Schools are on vacation, for example. Most of the students who left the West could not go to their villages for ten days, unable to meet their families, and returned. I'd like the state to be more sensitive about it... if they could make a contribution to Mush, whatever the Bingol formula is. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0022par0317	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0023par0320	Mr. President, thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the ministers: the loans for support from the trades and artists and the agriculture sector through banks have been sent to the Council of Ministers this year, but since the decree has not been signed yet, they are unable to make the necessary attempt to use both Agriculture Bank and People's Bank loans. Due to the major losses in agriculture and the difficulties the tradesman and the artist face in paying, of course, there may be such a delay because the Prime Minister's health reasons cannot meet the Council of Ministers, but we quickly expect the Council of Ministers' support to be signed in the form of these decrees, Foreign Trade Undersecretary and Treasury.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0022par0322	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. Mr. Straight...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0024par0325	Thank you. Mr. President, a member of the AKP has recently threatened to crack the head of Republican People's Party MPs on a television channel. I don't find this behavior appropriate to a congressman, and I strongly condemn it. Besides, I'm waiting for our friend to apologize to the people on the stand. If he doesn't show that maturity, I'd like to tell him that as a Seaman, I think he knows exactly what happened to the premature cock. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0025par0328	Thank you, Mr. Straight. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0026par0331	Mr. President, Eskişehir is contaminated by domestic and industrial waste from the Badger water basin, which concerns the drinking and using water basin. In this regard, I think the government should make an effort to get Kütahya treatment facilities built immediately, and I would like to present to the attention of the Assembly a serious danger to Eskişehir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit01spe0025par0333	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0025par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes: 16.02.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Thursday (July 16,02,2012), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. İstanbul MP M. On 27,12,2011, the Assembly of Turkey's Parliament was proposed by its friends on the basis of "the increase in the grounds of the rise in the crime of resisting duty and allegations of torture and maltreatment" and on the basis of the implementation of measures to prevent torture and torture crimes and avoid punishment in the same date. Mr. Godkulu, in favor of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0027par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before drafting this research motion, I asked the Justice Department for an answer, and I received a very comprehensive answer from the Ministry of Justice. The answer came on 23 December 2011. In addition, just after the June 12th elections, I had the Parliamentary Research Centre do a search, and the answer came in July 2011. These answers have come. I've done a lot of research, and as a result of these investigations, we've decided to submit this research motion with our friends. I served as the Diyarbakır representative of the Human Rights Foundation of Turkey before I was elected to parliament, worked as a Human Rights Association, worked as a lawyer. As for torture crimes, I've done a lot of research on abuse crimes, I've done a lot of cases, I've represented a lot of victims. However, after the Justice and Development Party's 2002 ruling, after Mr. Prime Minister's remarks to show zero tolerance to torture, we have found that torture in Turkey has not actually been reduced, that abuse has not been reduced, but has been concealed on one occasion along with many human rights organizations. Hence, the dramaticness of the numbers reveals the situation. Although the 17th amendment of our Constitution prohibits torture and persecution, even though a negative obligation has been imposed on the state, there is widespread opinion in practice, that torture and abuse in detention centers and other centers continues as an administrative practice. Now, I've painted you specifically for my friends from the Justice and Development Party to see these figures. You're not listening to what we're reading, so maybe you'll benefit from a visual material, so you can see better. Dear friends, look, you can see in this picture the rise between torture and abuse crimes in your time of power and resisting civil servants. During the eight-year period, there were 5,643 officers who were prosecuted for torture and persecution from 2003 to 2010, but the number of cases brought against our citizens for resisting and insulting them was 104,348. So around 14,000 citizens have been sued for resisting or insulting police or other officers during this period, and about 64 thousand of them have been convicted, and 64 thousand of our valued citizens have been convicted. There are such striking numbers in the statistics of the ministry. What happened during your time, when our citizens came up with courage, when they saw any security guards, they began to resist and insult them? I wonder what happened. You ever think about that? Why did citizens become like this in your time? Either we investigate this sociologically, or we investigate psychologically, or we investigate the increase between torture crimes and crimes of resisting police action, and that's what this Parliament is going to do. I want to read you something else. I don't think you read it. This is the report of the European Commissioner for Human Rights Thomas Hammerberg, dear friends. It's dated January 10, 2012. In this report, the 30-page report also shows striking findings regarding judicial practices and human rights practices in Turkey. There are very important suggestions for Turkey in this report. I don't think you've read it, but I suggest you read it. We can get very important results from these reports, you can get them, we can get them together here. You know what it says in the Hammerberg report? As I read, I read from this report: Another concern about criminal misconduct is that police officers accused of abusing the office have been accused of pressing charges against the plaintiffs in accordance with Article 265, particularly the Article 265, which prevents TCK from acting against the public official. • The Commissioner is concerned that the criminal law system is more interested in such charges than the actual complaints. He came here in October, met with you, met with the ministers, visited prisons, met with human rights advocates, met with human rights agencies, and wrote this report you saw, and he made recommendations to the government in this report. One of the issues he proposed was the increase in resisting charges against the officer. This was done in order to conceal the torture and abuse crimes, which the judiciary remained silent, that the judiciary had shown a significant interest in resisting crimes, that it had condemned people very quickly, but that there continued to be a lack of punishment for torture and abuse crimes, which the Court of Human Rights referred to both the decisions of the human rights institutions he met, referring to the reports he received from the ministry as well as the reports and information he received from the ministry. And he made that determination as a recommendation to the government. We read it, too. And that's what I've done in my earlier research, as well as the results of the Clave Research Center's investigation. That was the Minister's answer to our question motion. Therefore, the sun is not covered with clay, dear friends. There is zero tolerance for torture and abuse no matter how much you say it, but it is the torturers who are protected here and protected and abused our citizens and citizens. The figures, the figures of the Ministry, are very strikingly revealing. Now, what can we do, dear friends? You've all read the latest article in the Milliyet newspaper on October 14, 2011. Two of our citizens, Free Benol and Mine Sayar, were news of how two students were beaten. In these news reports, the explanations of why an officer beat up these young people were striking. At the point where he beat them, he said: "We beat them and abused them because he spoke against the state. " Cross-reference the charges against the two students against the charges against the police officers. It's in your records, too, with information and resources. Again, we all watched with chills how he was beaten, and then it turned out that our female citizen resisted the police, so he was abused. The punishment for our female citizen is seven years. Know that. Thus, it is now strikingly clear how torture and abuse are hidden in police stations and other detention centers in prisons. Because of these crimes, the crime of torture and persecution is concealed by being made as a crime of resisting and malfeasance. So it's clear what we have to do here, what we have to do is clear. If our citizens have had the courage to resist the police, let's investigate this high courage. Why did they become so brave in your time, so brave? No, if there is another, then let's compare why it's hidden, how it's hidden, and how it's increased in these crimes. Finally, dear friends, the Minister of Interior had expressed in connection with the incident in Karaböklar: "Are we to hang these police officers? No one demands that all of these crimes be investigated and punished in the way we consider crimes against our citizens, as crimes against humanity, or do we not demand a fine of $30? Dear friends, no regime has ever been able to align people with torture, oppression and violence. You can't build democracy with your understanding. You can't keep a woman in custody from being tortured without paying 30 lira fines to the officers who torture her without paying attention to the cameras, or by saying, "What, should we hang her?" you can't stop torture and abuse by taking care of her. Because this people will pay for good and evil sooner or later. No government that protects the torturer has survived, so I want you to note this aside, and as you're about to do today, the agenda of the council is very busy, so don't say it's against the agenda of Congress. After all this research, after all this time, we've prepared them, we've given them to them. If you're gonna give me a reason, give me another reason. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0028par0030	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Against the proposal, Parliamentary Mustafa Kemal Sherbetcioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Sherbetcioğlu.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0029par0034	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. As head of the Turkish-Kosovo Friendship Group, I first congratulate you on the 4th anniversary of the independence of the friend and sister Republic of Kosovo. During the past four years, Kosovo has taken very serious steps towards strengthening its independence, developing democratic institutions and regional co-operation. Turkey's commitment to the successful future of a democratic, multicultural and prosperous Kosovo is complete. I believe that Kosovo will travel a considerable distance towards becoming a respected member of the international community by being recognised by more countries in the coming period. On occasion of these happy days, friends and brothers congratulate the people of Kosovo again, wishing their independence to be eternal. Regarding the Republican People's Party's motion, I would also like to point out that there have been very serious regulations during our mandate to prevent torture and abuse. Both our government and its judicial authorities are fighting decisively to prevent them. Currently, a subcommittee has been established within our Human Rights Commission. Besides, there's no need for research. We don't accept the motion. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0030par0040	Thank you, Mr. Sherbetcioğlu. In favour of the proposal, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0031par0044	Mr. President, I have made a pledge today in favour of the Parliament's research motion to prevent torture and torture crimes and to determine the measures to be taken. On this occasion, I salute you all. ▪ Zero tolerances to torture is undoubtedly a highly respected expression. However, the fact that this statement can be carried out is not the first thing to ban torture or to regulate it with the law. You can ban torture, but you can't prevent torture if you keep the path to torture open. Torture is a bad psychology, a bad law, a problem of perception as well as a sociological problem. Not just laws, but society must also say that torture is a zero problem. Throughout history, mankind has always been forced to stand between honor and comfort, virtue and bread. The essence of the capitalist system is actually based on that logic. If you want honor, you have to compromise your comforts, if you want bread, you have to give up your virtues. If it is in the form of an imposition, it would be very difficult to create a healthy person, a healthy system in such a society. Torture has always been practiced by sick people throughout history, even within systems, in order to deter those who are willing to die to be stubborn. There is no need to argue about it, but the torment is a shameful thing to do. Torture lowers not what's actually done, but what does. In a place where torture and abuse are traditionally traditional, sociological, political, cultural, religious examinations are essential to such practices. Being against torture and abuse doesn't solve the problem. In fact, making laws that strongly prohibit torture and abuse does not fully solve the problem. Hence, social, cultural, economic, and traditional veins that produce torture and abuse need to be examined. It's serious, it's worth the consideration and consideration. When talking about torture and abuse, the system must discuss the issues of the state, the rule of law, and first establish a consensus on them. Law doesn't create society, society creates law. There's no future in public legal regulations. It is two concepts that are interconnected with the law. It is only possible by authority to establish, provide, and protect the law. For him, choose security with law, democracy and security, one of the two. The assessments are completely wrong, even dangerous. You have to treat both of them together, both of them as complementary elements, before they're within each other's bounds. These are not the opposites of each other, or the alternatives, or things to replace the other; if you put them, you go to a totalitarian head, an authoritarian regime. The state is obliged to protect individuals against each other and against itself. So the state and the individual, the state and the community, and finally the state and the law are interconnected concepts. These concepts are like two sides of a coin, they complement each other, but they are never the same. No individual, no society, no society, no state, no law, no legitimacy. Without one of these facts, we can't talk about the meaning of the other. The most important expression that emphasizes the relationship between these concepts is the legal state. The economic, cultural, political, social, and intellectual rights of individuals are discussed as a whole in the legal state. Where there's torture, there's no doubt that nothing is true and it doesn't work. The individual does the torture, the system allows it to be built. Many of the assessments made over torture stem from ignoring these parameters. In this regard, declaring the state a torturer, or a murderer, means crossing the line and not knowing what he was saying. To exploit torture is as despicable as to torture. Therefore, the opening of a parliamentary investigation into torture will bring us to a position where people, the state, such as these allegations, such claims, slanders, accusations, in a sense. The way to prevent abuses is to open these kinds of research, identify their motives, and expose tortures without any doubt, but it's not the kind of thing that sane people would do to come to judgment over them by handling individual or individual cases. The only way to make peace with the individual and the state is to eliminate torture altogether. On this occasion, it is wise to make brief reference to individual, community, and state relations. Remember that individuals have a close relationship with both the character and the society in which they live. Plato said that thousands of years ago. It is possible only to protect and maintain the individual's basic rights and freedoms through the government. If the world is studied in a meaningful way, it seems that non-governmental communities can't speak of any freedom in the absolute sense. The state is too important a political organization to sacrifice to anarchist utopias. Another definition of the government in this sense is ▪ The political nation. Fascist, theocratic and communist deviations arise when the state loses its goal-car balance for the nation. Dear lawmakers, there is no doubt that individual and state cannot be dealt with within a cause-effect or thesis-antithesis relationship. It is imperative that you see the individual and the state as elements of a complementary and complementary mechanism, which has functional relations and is not in a position to be preferred to each other. By doing a complete mental abstraction, it means putting the data in the wrong place in the first place by confronting the individual and the state, and then by being as weak as a molecule in the face of enormous authority. If you build a mission that protects the state, individual and individual freedoms, then the business or political benefit of such phenomena will be eliminated. Since thousands of years, either the rulers of the state must be wise or the scholars must govern the state. We all know that you have opinions in the form of a virtuous, untalented, tortured government. You said "knowledge," you said "namulus," and you brought all these people to the head of the administration, but they became torturers, they became corrupts, they became people who worked against society. Then how will you protect the community from them? The question arises. And the way to protect society from them is to create a state structure so that when the worst, the most treacherous, the most immoral person comes to it, when it happens to the state, there's no way he can do anything but do good to the state and the community. In this sense, it is necessary to structure and make sense of the state in such a way that it has become a mechanism that gives and protects society and the individual, in particular, all kinds of rights, including freedom. The individual's rights are only meaningful if they can be guaranteed by an authority. That authority is the government. The state takes its legitimacy from the people who created it by some sort of social contract. A nation without a state is a pack, and a state without a nation is a meaningless slogan. In this context, the Parliament finds it correct in democracy and law to bring up the motion to investigate torture and torture crimes and to determine the measures to be taken.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0032par0062	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Against you, Lord Hussein Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0033par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I, too, wish to celebrate today's 4th anniversary of the foundation of our historical and cultural ties to Kosovo, to rule in Europe and to continue its activities in peace and brotherhood. I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to investigate measures to prevent torture and torture and avoid punishment. The EC PARTY, which came to the government after 2002, demonstrated its opposition to torture and torturers in every situation and under all circumstances. We say we're against the motion to investigate with these feelings and thoughts, not by a motion to prevent torture and prevent torture, but by asking that legal regulations be prevented, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0034par0071	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0035par0074	I think it's accepted, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0036par0075	Dear sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0034par0076	It's been made. Your Honour, it is.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0035par0078	Sustained.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0036par0079	Why don't you count it, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0037par0080	Let me count... Mr. President, we object. Can you count it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0038par0082	The Justice and Development Party...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0039par0083	There are 41 people there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0037par0084	There's 44 of them.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0038par0085	The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting held by the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 16,02,2012 (now), I request that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The proposed 164 rows of legislation published in the printed List of Papers and published within 48 hours to the 2nd place of the Agenda's "Law Bills and Offers and Other Jobs From Commissions"; the drafts 85, 76, 161 and 119 ranked in the order of 3, 4, 5 and 6th rows; and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this order. On Thursday (February 16, 2012), February 16, 2012, the meeting of the 164th law proposal until the completion of its talks, On Friday (February 17, 2012) he worked until the meeting of the 119th legislature, Continued work in the above-level combinations until the completion of day-to-day programs at 2400 p.m., if the daily programs are not completed, It's recommended. No speeches in favor of the Justice and Development Party's proposal?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0040par0101	Yes, sir, we did.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0038par0102	He's not here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0040par0103	Let me do the talking.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0038par0104	Mr. Gardendoor, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0040par0106	Mr. President, I have received a pledge in favor of the AK PARTY group proposal. I wish you all good work. Before you tell me anything about this, I'd like to say a quick word. Last night, during the parliamentary talks, I met with Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, Nationalist Movement Party Deputy Director and Deputy President of the Peace and Democracy Party Group to determine today's and tomorrow's schedule. With a compromise, the content of today's group proposal has been revealed, and I thank them. If I want to sum up our group proposal: We would like to recommend that State Intelligence Services No. 164 be brought to the 2nd place on the agenda before 48 hours later. We propose that the laws of 85, 76, 161 and 119 -- which are international contracts -- are to be taken to the top of the agenda, 3, 4 and 5 percent -- and that the order of other tasks should be based on that. Regarding the working hours, dear friends, on Thursday (February 16, 2012), until the completion of talks between State Intelligence Services No. 164 and the Law Proposal for Change in the National Intelligence Service Act; and on Friday (February 17, 2012) until the meeting of Law Bill 119th, which I mentioned, was completed at 24 p.m. We recommend that the work continue until the day-to-day programmes are completed if the daily schedule cannot be completed at 00. I'd like to ask you to vote in favor of our group's proposal, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0041par0112	Thank you, Mr. Gardendoor. Against you, Aydın MP Bulent Tezcan. Here you go, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0042par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are now living on a very fast agenda in Turkey this week. He came up with the fast agenda, and he began to affect the work of the House at the same speed, the same speed. Today, our Parliamentary study plans today to enforce this proposal, which has been proposed to change Article 26 of the MIT Law, known as the MIT Law. Dear friends, take a look as long as it lasts. There's been a KCK operation in Turkey recently. You're looking at the framework of the carried-out KCK operation, a part of the operation presents a danger of extending it to key MIT officials, including the current MIT Undersecretary of the MIT, and the special prosecutor who conducts the investigation calls 5 MIT officers to testify. This is what happens after the summons sent to testify, and then suddenly Turkey's agenda, even the Justice Commission's agenda, and then Turkey's Grand National Assembly's agenda, which quickly comes to the agenda of the Justice Commission, which is contrary to the Civil Charter, which is quickly ahead of the effort and appetite of your opposition in that parliament that you want so badly. Dear friends, Article 36 of the Civil Code is open. The bill sent to us on Monday, which was impossible to negotiate forty-eight hours before it was impossible, was passed through the Justice Commission on Tuesday, starting in the afternoon, until 11:30 p.m., breaking all the rules of procedure, being irregular. Dear friends, we are now trying to discuss this with the same excitement and excitement, by changing the working order of the pre-planned Assembly. Dear friends, look, in Turkey, members of the ruling party in the past and the ministers, the Justice and Development Party's establishments are being persistently interfered with. Let the judgment do its work, and let it go! There is a more dire thing going on than that which they cry out. There's an offer of law coming in. An investigation has been launched, and MIT officials have been subpoenaed in this investigation. There are public officials who are alleged to have supported terrorist activities by the terrorist organization. The investigation into these has begun, it is being processed within the scope of this investigation, and we are faced with the attempt to seize it as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and change the 26th Article of the MIT Law and leave the authority to conduct this investigation to the Prime Minister. Dear friends, I speak to your consciences, as I have said in the Justice Commission, to your consciences: we are suffering an eclipse. Today, if we discuss the 26th amendment of the MIT Law and, God willing, decide, legalize, and change the 26th Amendment, we will clearly violate the 138th Article of the Constitution. Clearly, we will be violating the 138th article of the Constitution, making a decision in the Legislative Assembly concerning an ongoing case. Isn't this an intervention in independent judgment, folks? Look, the proposal of the law that has been asked to be made... under Article 26 of the existing MIT Law, that if the MIT officials, members of the MIT, claim to have committed a crime in their service, they will be subject to the Prime Minister's permission to be investigated and prosecuted. That's the current law. Now, with the change they've been asked to bring in, they'd like to make an addition. The addition, the friends who are asked to do so, says: "Let us add to it those whom the prime minister is going to appoint in private. " The people who are going to be appointed by the prime minister are not enough, and if they commit these tasks, let their investigation be subject to the Prime Minister's permission. It is called, "Let the Prime Minister's permission." Secondly, the second point that is always being brought into question is that if these crimes are crimes involving special authorities in the jurisdiction of the courts, which is one of the crimes within the scope of Article 250, 251, 252, 252 of the Penal Code, then even special authorities cannot investigate, but if the Prime Minister allows them to investigate, they say. Dear friends, in favor of this today, from the ministers of the ruling party, Vice Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ to Mr. Minister of Justice, who made statements to public, TVs, newspapers, to Mr. Justice, two days ago in the Commission, to Mr. Minister of Justice, to Mr. Justice, to Mr. Justice, to Mr. President Bulent Arinc. Dear friends, as Erzincan's Attorney General has been subjected to a special trial until yesterday, when the prosecution is under attack and the prosecutor's office is under arrest, then the authorities have taken power from the Supreme Council of Prosecutors Erzurum Special Prosecutors. Those who tear up the apocalypse are interfering with this judiciary. Those who say, "Let go now, let the judges intervene in a Supreme Council of Prosecutors's Office, and directly intervene in the judiciary by the hands of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's legislature." You're trying to build a system like this. Dear friends, look, this is the law to be brought in, a law that gives the Prime Minister the authority and opportunity to appoint whomever he wants. There's no condition here to be a public servant, no matter who the Prime Minister appoints, they're exempted from prosecution, one. Second of all, there's no measurement to the nature of this. So you can assign a Turkish citizen, you can assign a foreign national, you can assign a secret intelligence officer in Turkey, and you can bring them a law that can be recognized as a privilege of prosecution. My dear friends, what is this called, not a mental eclipse? Look, this law has only one goal: it may be a law in Turkey to protect, protect, and ensure that I will not be tried under judicial immunity. This law gives the PMs the authority to form a private organization. This law gives the authority to legitimize the deep government. You know that coup d'etat you're always saying, that law allows people who use prime minister's authority to take a direct hit at future times? So you're going to stand up, one of the two words that comes out of your mouth is going to fight coupism; one of the two words that comes out of your mouth will be the independence of the judiciary; one of the two words that comes out of your mouth will be that you don't interfere with the judge. One of the two words that comes out of your mouth is going to be: let's fight the gang. There's going to be a law, and then you're going to bring a law against us so that you can build a secret organization for the prime minister of that country. Dear friends, this is not the solution.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0043par0130	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0042par0131	Don't bother, don't bother. You may trust your Prime Minister. (HPP) Today's Prime Minister may or may not be doing this, this is another discussion, but in democracies and the state of law, law can never be left to anyone's conscience. When the commanders are tried, the special authorities are independent courts, the independent judiciary when others are tried, but when it comes to the threat of touching the Prime Minister, the way to turn around and cut off...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0044par0134	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. In favor of the proposal, Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0045par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group in favor of the proposal. In the first place, the ranking of the law bill on the agenda: State Intelligence Services No. 164 and National Intelligence Service Act on the amendment of the Law Proposal on the agenda in the next 48 hours; again, 85, 76, 161 and 119 in international contracts; and the completion of the drafting of the legislation on the agenda to the third and fourth and fifth place of the agenda; and the order of other work schedules of the General Assembly on Thursday (February 16, 2012) -- the completion of amendments to the State Intelligence Services Service and National Intelligence Service Law Act on Friday (February 164) -- and the completion of the Law until February 17, 2012; and the completion of the draftment of the drafting of the draftment of the legislation on Friday (February 17th). In the event that the daily schedules are incomplete at 00 p.m., we'll continue to work until the day-to-day programs are completed... Again, regarding this matter, Prime Minister, I would like to offer you a motion that will not appoint anyone, and I would like to extend my regards to your High Council, where it may be assigned to public officials.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0046par0143	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Against the proposal, Müsh MP Sırı Sakık. Here you go, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0047par0146	Mr. President, dear friends, I will share with you my thoughts on this proposal, my group's thoughts. I salute you all. In fact, it's going to be discussed, and we're not looking at this law on the coming MIT (MIT) like the ruling party or the opposition parties. We all know very clearly what the real reason is, so it's wrong to protect and protect them by making a special law of yours, and the opposition party's move to intercept dialogue and negotiations is wrong. Neither of them makes peace in the country. Especially this understanding of opposition, especially an assassination of domestic peace. We say clearly: Why was the entire account discussed in Oslo, and why did the Kurdish children of Habur? It started that day, so there's a special law going on today, so it's not a reaction from the law. The real reaction is why dialogue and talks have been a process where the Kurdish problem is being resolved... and revenge is being taken. In fact, you don't have a program or a project. In the past, for example, I'd like to ask you, here comes the special laws that protect and protect such private laws, someone, sir, who will now commit assassinations. Well, the MIT had a gun in their hands in the past, he was involved in operations, he was committing murder, no one was judging them, no one was moving, no one was talking about law, no law, no democracy. Mesut Yilmaz, one of the former prime ministers, said that we clearly burned the forests in Greece. No MIT member has been processed, and these prosecutors have not done their duty, and they are now sitting in the former Undersecretary of MITs Bosphorus. There was a reporter's statement the other day, sitting in a $10 million villa in his corner. No one's subjecting him to an investigation. Now, the question is, how do we get from the Kemalist republic to the democratic republic? That's how we look at it. If your heart is strong enough, Turkey needs a legal order that meets European standards. On the contrary, we should be able to re-enact these talks, not to operations that would block Turkey's negotiations. For example, as a BDP, we propose that we have a project, and we say that these talks shouldn't have MIT personnel, so that any intellectuals, artists, politicians, consciences, anyone who has a special commission, this Parliament can form a special commission, and a special law can go out for them, this peace and talks can continue with these commissions. Look, our project is so clear and clear, but it's not being done. What you're trying to do today is protect and protect a few certain personalities. It doesn't give you anything, and if the allegations are serious, for example, let's investigate that MIT has leaked people to the CK and done actions within the CK together, but I'm sure that's not the prosecutor's point. The prosecutor's logic is clear and clear: that state's deposits are still in the prosecutor's brain, why was the Kurdish issue sought for negotiations? That's all the effort. Some people call it a bloody knife fight in the palace, or something. If you still have the best law in the world, if you apply the best laws, but you don't have a spring cleaning in your brain, that's the logic, understanding of these judges. So let's implement a legal system where we're all on equal terms, not just private courts, where you're going to authorize these special prosecutors, not just private courts that you're going to build. Let's put together the infrastructure for this. You say a lot of things, but you don't do anything. For example, you're saying about the seminary, you're going, you're making statements, but you're not doing it. You say important things about Cemevs, but you do nothing. You say important things about the Kurdish problem, but you don't free the Kurdish alphabet. You still have a lot of MPs coming out of this chair... so you used to take the names of Kurds, Azerbaijans, Greeks, non-Muslims and change their names in order to go to work and apply the assimilation policy. Some lawmakers still can't even get up here and digest them. You can change these things, you can bring them to life, but you don't do anything. For the first time in parliament today, the Republican People's Party Group's Parliament's motion to investigate has been accepted, and so has the apocalypse. Can't we all be partners in this? Can't we create a common platform? Here comes spring. Spring and blood and tears, we all bear witness. In the last week, nearly 30 PKK guerrillas have been killed, and are you happy about it? These are the children of this country, aren't they? The soldiers are dead, so who can be happy? All these people...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0048par0150	He's not a guerrilla, he's a terrorist...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0047par0151	You don't have to react from there. I'm stressing a reality. Blood is flowing, it's Parliament's duty to stop this blood. Don't you have any other duties? I mean, is God just about to use words here or...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0048par0152	If you call a terrorist a guerrilla, we'll talk!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0047par0153	That's what your minister says, too. You're still in the 1930s!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0048par0154	He's a terrorist.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0047par0155	You call him a terrorist, but most of the people say it's my will, it's my children.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0048par0156	The will of the great majority is here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0047par0157	Now, look, I'll tell you something: life isn't just the way you look out the window. Millions of people live there, and it's the children and brothers of those people. I was in Izmir yesterday, in the fields. Thousands of young people shouted: "Don't look on the ridge; we are all here because the people in the mountain are my brothers and my brothers in prison. " You still can't swallow it. For him, for example, it's always said, when there's no cure, the road is the cure, the mountain is the cure, the prison is the cure, death is the cure. So, this idea of yours drove the Kurds to the mountains, drove them to prisons, drove them to prisons, drove them to death, victims of unsolved murders, Kurds. No one went to these mountains out of joy, out of desperation... if there was no cure, they shot themselves in the mountains and searched for a cure there. Now, we turn around and say, "It's been so long, life has taught us so many things, we still can't solve this problem with the mountain logic of denial and denial here. We all have to accept each other, we all have to respect each other's language, identity, culture; it's not a blessing. You can come out here and say it, we'll applaud you, but you can go to Diyarbakir and deny it, there's no education in the mother tongue. You say, "You can come back later." You say, "The Kurdish language is not a civilized language." Here, these don't match, they don't match what you're saying and committed to. Yes, there's a people here, they have language, culture, identity, rejection and denial over the years, and it has to be done. In fact, Parliament should have done it today, so that we could solve this problem together without special prosecutors or private courts or laws to protect and protect your special units. Actually, the problem we've been discussing is, why have we been breaking the same laws for 90 years? Since we can't solve the Kurdish problem at work that we can't solve, we're hoping for help from the will courts, the state security courts, and from the special authorities, where we are today. However, without any need, this Parliament could return and remove all of this and create the country of law and peace together with all its consequences, and bring our inner peace together. I wish Parliament... that the AKP's group proposal had happened today, and we'd come out and, yes, we'd support it... if there had been a dialogue and negotiation group that would have included these intellectuals, democrats, politicians with this particular law that we had proposed, and we would have supported it. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit02spe0049par0164	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. I submit to you the motion of the Justice and Development Party Group: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'm taking a five-minute recess, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0049par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda for General Discussion and Parliamentary Research in Pre-Controversies. In this part, Istanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu and 23 of his friends will begin preliminary discussions on the opening of a parliamentary inquiry under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to prevent and avoid torture and torture crimes and avoid punishment. Government? He's in position. Now, since it hasn't been read before, I'm having the motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Investigating the Relations Between the Causes of the Increases in Responsibility for Resistance and Insistence and Insolvement Against Torture and Bad Opposition, ▪ Torture and Torture (Islamicism) (Islamic Monotheism) With the Purpose of Determination and Indulgence (Islamic Monotheism), the Constitution of the 98th and 105th Amendment (Islamic Monotheism). In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research. With all due respect. 1) M. Intuitive Godkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] 5) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Sinop]] [[Niğde]] 11) Mehmet Volcano Canailoğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Scholarship]] [[Edirne]] 14) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] 15) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Sakarya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] In July 2011, on charges of resisting arrest and defamation charges against our citizen Fevziye Genghis, who was subjected to severe torture and ill-treatment of two police officers, who were handcuffed at the İzmir Karabağlar Police Station, in response to a lawsuit demanding prison sentences for up to 6.5 years, and the victim's complaint was not considered under torture by the prosecutor's office. As a result, statistics show that the number of lawsuits filed in Turkey over recent years for torture and persecution has not changed much, and the number of lawsuits brought up has tripled due to the crime of resistance (resisting against the memura) to avoid the task. In 2003, Mülga TCK, number 765, was named "Serious Treats Against Efframent by Government officials." 243 in Morocco. And 245. The number of cases filed under the terms of the charges of torture and malfeasance was 1,141, while the same law was 254th, 256th, 257th, 258th, 260. And 271. The number of cases filed according to their Articles is 6,243. In 2004, there were 1,243 cases against the convicted torture and abuse crimes, while 7.297 were the number of cases filed against the officer according to the law's law. In 2005, the number of cases on the counts of torture and abuse committed under the relevant provisions of the multilateral TCK was 944, while the number of cases filed against the officer was 7.814. The new Turkish Penal Code No. 5237, adopted in 2004, entered into force on June 1, 2005, charged the officer with resisting charges of 265. The article is called "resisting not to have a mission," with a significant increase in the number of cases related to these crimes. For example, in 2009, Mulga 765 was TCK's 243. And 245. New TCK's 94th, 95th and 96th. 891 cases of torture and malfeasance have been filed under the provisions of Article 765, 254th, 256th, 257th, 258. 260. And 271. 265, which has been charged with resisting arrest in order not to get the job done by the new TCK with its clauses. A total of 24,001 cases have been settled under the clause. In 2010, these numbers were 963 and 24.938 respectively. At first glance, it seems that our society suddenly had the courage and the will to resist an officer. However, this dramatic increase in the number of cases filed against the officer on the charge of resisting action and the incident in Izmir was jointly assessed, suggesting that the charges of resistance against an officer in Turkey have been used intensively with the support of prosecutors in order to reduce the crime of torture and maltreatment. The ban on torture and abuse is 17th of our Constitution. is one of the most important negative rights in the article and basic human rights contracts approved by Turkey. In Turkey, which seems to have secured basic human rights at all levels in the context of the procedure, it is especially necessary for security officers to treat people with inhuman and humiliating treatment and to press charges against them in order to prevent investigations, to receive support from prosecutors and forensic authorities in this process, to investigate for the sake of the TBMM's human dignity. It's not the government, it's the people's rights. According to our Interior Charter, it will be promised to the government, the political party groups, and the first signator in the motion, or another signator, in order to determine whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened. The period of speech is twenty minutes each for the government and the groups, ten minutes for the motion holders; Article 102, 104 and 60. Now, I'm reading the names of the following members: On behalf of the government, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç; on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Reza Turmen; Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri for the People's Party Group; İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanzkulu for the motion. On behalf of the government, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç. Here you go, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0050par0077	Mr. President, I would like to present to you the most respected MPs on behalf of our government the motion to form a parliamentary research commission issued by Republican People's Party MPs. I salute you. Of course, we don't have to be able to share with you a very comprehensive preparation for the fact that the subject came up during the group proposals. However, dear lawmakers, I would like to share with you the information on the process. First of all, I'd like to share our opinion at the point that the sensitivity on the subject is mutually sensitive. The ground against torture is a ground where we must all keep alive and alive. Because the negative images of torture and abuse do not only disturb power, but a whole country with its power, a parliament with its opposition, and a whole nation whose will reflects on parliament. In recent years, the accusations attributed to the torture and abuse of Turkey are known to all. The second, third-rate country we've been exposed to in the eyes of international human rights organizations because of these accusations is also known to all. How Turkey's image has fallen behind on international grounds, how dark and dark paintings have been attributed to Turkey, are also known to all. In recent years, Turkey's government policies, state policies, the vision of full accession to the European Union have taken very important steps, and the positive aspects of these actions on human rights in recent years are known to all. A denial would certainly be unfair to our state, our nation, our Parliament, the Turkish nation's institutions. We don't think there are individual negatives, of course they can exist, individual, individual. We're not claiming that some public officials who exercise authority for administration have been completely eliminated from their individual flaws, their misdemeanors, that they've been completely removed, but there are two things that must be recorded in absolute order: 1) There is no systematic torture in Turkey, there is no systematic human rights violations in Turkey, there is no systematic abuse of individuals in Turkey. 2) On the contrary, Turkey is systematically dominated by its understanding of the fight against torture as of today. In Turkey, methodically, the universal needs of human rights prevail both in the administrative area and in the legal world. In Turkey, however, all our obligations stemming from the European Convention on Human Rights, as part of a conscious policy, as well as our obligations to prevent violence against women, are being taken in accordance with the provisions taken by the European Court of Human Rights, and again, on the basis of the decisions taken by the European Court on the application to which it has been referred. In the application for the request for a research motion, the sample of the abuse that took place in İzmir was reminiscent of the violence against a Turkish woman. Here, the administrative system has apologized to the public for what happened with all its units. The public officials in İzmir, especially the governor of İzmir, did not cover it up, did not cover it up, never went to the hiding ground, felt the need to apologize for what had happened and apologize. However, our Ministry of Family and Social Policy has followed and continued to pursue this violence against the woman. We don't have to settle for the pursuit of an isolated incident. It is the primary duty of all who are created as human beings, who are not in plain sight, who are unknown, who are not responding to the media, who are not moving to the judiciary, who are not moving to the judiciary, who are created as a matter of human rights and honor. That's how we look at it. We don't see human rights violations, torture, abuse as a political issue, we don't see a ruling opposition dispute or competition. We view and assess all forms of torture, all forms of abuse in the field of human rights as basically a human problem, a crisis of conscience, a legal problem. In this framework, many steps have already been taken with his opposition in the past, not closed, not covered up. The government of the Republic of Turkey, which is in charge today, represents the understanding of a government that for the first time has brought its vision of zero tolerances to the torture of the Republic. For the first time, the approach to torture has come to Turkey's agenda with the EC PARTI governments, and all steps that need to be taken in parallel are taken in the judiciary, administrative structure, in practice, in the pursuit of the Prime Minister of the Republic. When it's looked at in this way, valuable lawmakers, in our time, we've made the effort at the highest level. We've made a great effort and effort to expose, bring to justice, judge, and justify certain unsolved perpetrators of the murders that occurred before our power period. In our time in Turkey, no human rights violations, no torture incidents, no murder, no unlawful conduct, knowingly, knowingly, intentionally and intentionally, in legal terms, were deliberately, deliberately, or deliberately, covered, not covered, not covered. Today, in Diyarbakir, it is the government of today's republic, which strives to reveal that people have been killed and buried at the bottom of the wall for what purpose, in order to be searched, found, analyzed, and analyzed. We have that will, we have that consciousness, we have that determination. So in this framework, we don't see the need to redefine our known determination, declare it, if you want the truth. As I said at first, there is no need to act with a power-migration distinction in order to make decisions that need to be made in the field of human rights, to determine the limits of sensitivity that need to be taken. The administration is already determined to punish those responsible, to expose these events with all its units. Look, dozens of training seminars have been held before and after the unfortunate incident in İzmir, and hundreds of judges and prosecutors have been given additional training at these seminars to increase the sensitivity of the practitioners in the Ministry of Justice, to improve their knowledge and savings. In this sense, the chairmanship of the Police Academy has been acted on the other hand by the work of the President of the Justice Academy, in an effort to take measures to the maximum level so that the incidents and the likes of them will never repeat in this geography. Of course, the country's Prime Minister, ministers, public rulers, no matter how determined they are at the top, there may be some neglects at some point in the administration, or practices in which some rules, universal principles are ignored; some practices from human error, human weakness may be involved. The important thing is that in the case of some public officials using the state power they have received from the law, the administration protects these human rights violations, tortures or abuses, is it important to bring them to the front of the law, and that's the important thing. So far, our applications, all of these violations, all of what happened before our time, are in the majority of the negatives that have been as rare as they can be in our time because of zero tolerance. If the administration brings them to trial, brings them to the judge, delivers them to the judge, asks for their dues, then there's a systemic, conscious, stable goodwill and a legal stance. I think it's our duty to support this legal stance. What happens if there's a research commission? Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid we don't have the time to discuss and legalize even many of the laws and proposals on our agenda. Building new commissions, increasing the number of commissions, leading the MPs to those commissions -- and we've all been through this problem together in the past term -- it's not a very functional choice to keep them active while the fellowship commissions continue to work on one side.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0051par0094	You sound like the vice president, you're a member of the government.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0050par0095	You know, I used to be deputy president of the group.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0051par0096	You are a member of the government, speak for your government, there are friends to speak for the AKP Group. So as an executive...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0050par0097	Maybe I'm making it easier for my group president friends.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0051par0098	You speak for the government. Let the AKP Group explain its views.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0050par0099	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, when looked at in this way, our opinion as a government is to fight human rights violations to the end. If there are public officials who have caused human rights violations or have broken the law, it is to be able to bring them to justice immediately without accepting any protection. That's what we've done on every floor we've ever done, and that's what's going to happen from now on. If you have to follow a number of examples of abuse, it's not the period of years when the AK PARTI governments are looking for perpetrators, to track down some of the perpetrators, to track them down, because the AK PARTI governments have never been in the way of protecting these illegalities. Our conclusion is that the government's view of the event is within that framework. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0052par0102	Thank you, Mr. Sword. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Reza Türmen. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Specten.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0053par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'm here to discuss the establishment of the research commission which has just been approved. The task of the research commission is to investigate the relationship between torture and abuse allegations due to the increase in resisting crimes in order not to get the job done, and to determine measures to prevent torture and torture crimes and avoid punishment. I just listened very carefully to the Minister's speech. I really think his concern for this matter is a positive sign. He also said that the issue of torture is not a problem of power-responsibility. That's a positive development. Of course, then there are some questions. If it's not a question of power-responsibility, fighting torture, then why couldn't we agree on this research motion? The heart would want to, since it's a common concern, a common concern of the entire House, not a power-enforcement issue, then let's make this motion together, we'll set up the research commission together. That didn't happen. Of course, there's a second question. Mr. Secretary, it's all well and good, but we're fighting, but we don't need a commission like that either. Because it takes time. Now, that's not a word proportional to the sensitivity shown in the fight against torture. So you're going to be very sensitive on the one hand, and we don't have time for that. You're going to say, That's not happening. If it's such a big deal, we need power and opposition for the whole House, then we think we need time for it. It's supposed to be the natural result. Friends, torture and abuse are being examined in three categories in both our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights: one torture, one abuse, and one humiliating, degrading treatment. What's to be understood here is that there is a intention, a confession, a force to obtain evidence, and a threshold of pain, a certain threshold of suffering, which is torture. When this threshold of suffering is not reached, when it is kept on a lower threshold and is not intentional, it falls into the category of abuse. Disrespectful treatment has a subjective element; it's being investigated whether or not there's something degrading or humiliating for the victim himself. But all three of them, whether they're tortured or abused or abused, have the same procedure, are considered equally bad. Of course, when we look at the statistics of the European Court of Human Rights, we see that the torture problem in Turkey is not over, there is still a torture problem in Turkey. I mean, torture is so severe, so crimes against humanity that even being convicted of one case is more than torture, it's not like being convicted of other cases. Therefore, the European Convention on Human Rights makes a great effort not to be convicted of torture, and when they are convicted of torture, it finds a great echo in the public, the newspapers write, and it creates a very difficult situation in terms of government, even being convicted of one trial of torture. However, when we look at Turkey, there are many cases that have resulted in torture, abuse or degrading treatment against Turkey. We need to fix this, Mr. Lawmakers, we really shouldn't tolerate this. There are ways to fix this. When you look at the cases in Turkey, you can see that the torture, abuse cases that have been filed against you in Turkey are improving. Earlier in the 1990s, torture was done in a crude manner, so there were some methods -- the hanger of the Palestinian, cold water, I don't know, and so on -- and so on -- and so on -- and so on. That's true. Turkey's cases, which are condemned today, show a different quality. There's one thing using brute force, there's abuse, there's more beatings and so on, but it comes from here: either after the torture, abuse claim, the state doesn't pay attention, it doesn't carry out an investigation, it doesn't open an effective investigation, so there's a breach against Turkey, or there's something else -- that's what provides state protection today -- that's what defines Turkey's cases. This is happening in a number of ways; either the evidence is either removed or not brought to trial, or if it is brought to trial, the judicial process is not working, or it's either expired, sir, it's not available, it's not available, it's not available, it's not available, it's in various ways to take statements. In the end, he goes unpunished. Today, Turkey's most troubling cases are these cases, such as these. So there's a protection, an armrest against a government official who's being tortured. That's gonna have to change. I'm hoping this research commission will be convened as well. First of all, it's important for him to focus on it. Of course, there is another aspect: these security guards, the police, are acting smarter and are suing against them. When you resist... because there's always a doctor's report on torture, abuse. There's a doctor's report, there's traces. It is said by the police that the following tracks, sir, were caused by his resistance when he resisted me. Such a series of countersuits exists. And that, of course, is... torture is covering up abuse, these countersuits. Of course, that's where the independence of institutions comes in. In particular, the lack of independence of the Coroner's Office presents a major problem in torture, abuse cases. Of course, there's no way to understand... It is not possible to understand why the judiciary is the only person to honor the report from the Forensic Medical Association, but the judiciary does not honor the reports brought from private hospitals. However, this issue is not the only issue that causes Turkey a headache. There are other important human rights violations related to Turkey. There are a number of human rights violations from freedom of thought to arrests. Turkey, as you know, is the state at the European Court of Human Rights that violates the contract the most, is in the state that has the most to decide against itself and is the state with the most pending case. Now, these human rights violations sometimes seem to be intertwined with the state of law. We have another problem with the legal state today. That, as we all know, is a change in the MIT Law - the National Intelligence Agency Law. This will create a new legal state for Turkey, a new human rights problem. The thing is, as we all know, there are officers in Oslo, who have gone to talk to PKK officials. The records of this meeting have been leaked. Now, there are a few issues here and there have been investigations due to the record. There's an investigation going on. Now, here are a few questions. The first question is, what was the mission given to these authorities? There's no telling what this mission is. What was the nature of the assignment given to the authorities in Oslo? It's important to explain what the prime minister's mission is. Public opinion needs to know that. Because of this, it is said that the duty given by the prosecution is a crime. This task is overturned, a crime. What was the task given at the time, which was overturned, you need to know. Of course, here, I'd like to point out that there is a fourth amendment to the State Intelligence Service and the National Intelligence Service Act. The 4th article lists what he will do to MIT, and the duties he will carry out. These tasks are considered tantamount to the country and nation of the Republic of Turkey: establishing security intelligence on its integrity, its existence, its independence, its security, its internal, external activities, to deliver this information to the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of General Staff, the Secretary General of the National Security Board. Another is to provide information requests and needs for preparing and conducting plans for national security policy. Another is: to advise public institutions and organizations' activities against intelligence and intelligence... on technical matters and so on. These are considered tasteable. Also, if there are other tasks, it is called doing other tasks for the National Security Board. So how do you explain now that we're making a amendment in the MIT Law, and we say that they will be assigned to perform a special task by members of the MIT or by the Prime Minister? That's an important question. Of course, there must be another question. Does the Prime Minister have the authority to give any authority to any officer, let him not be a criminal? Does the Prime Minister have the authority to give such authority, especially if it constitutes a crime? The answer to that question has been made clear by this proposed law. Because it is said in this proposal of the law, that they are not only members of the MIT, but those who have been appointed by the Prime Minister to perform a special task. They'll be given a number of special duties. Friends, this is a law proposal that is incompatible with the state of law. When we call it the legal state, three things are understood from the legal state: The first thing that is understood is that all the savings of the state are subject to the rule of law. This law violates the rule of law. So there will be no investigation of the Prime Minister's orders without the Prime Minister's permission. Even if they commit a crime, they will remain outside the law. For one thing, this first element of the state of law is contrary to the law enforcement of all the savings of the state. The second element of the law state, the law must be clear, the law must be predictable, the law must be accessible. This element of the legal state is also being violated here. Those who have been assigned to perform a special task -- it is not clear what it will be -- are not certain who they will be. So there's a change in the law that's in total limbo, with no end. Such a change of law has no place in the state of law. The law, as I said, must be clear, specific, predictable. It's not predictable, it's not open. It's the law that doesn't know what to do. Anyone can do anything. An infinite power is opened here, a door to arbitrary use of authority. This gate of pleasure poses a major threat to the state of law. We need to protect the legal state against that as Congress. And finally, thirdly, the state of law should also contain basic values, such as justice, human rights, unlike the state of law. If it doesn't contain these basic values, there won't be a law state. For example, everything that is done in Nazi Germany is perfectly legal, there is nothing illegal. Jews who were imprisoned in Nazi Germany were not sent to the gas chamber without finishing their sentences. After he got out of prison, he picked up a gestapo and took them to the gas chamber, but he didn't take them back until they were fined. Everything's legal, but nothing's legal, nothing's legal. We need to separate these two. In order to save one person here, while there is a amendment to stop an investigation, on the other hand, it hurts the public conscience to do nothing about it while MPs are in prison as prisoners and eight MPs are in prison. (CHP clapping in rows) This undermines the sense of justice that should be found in the state of law. In that regard, this amendment is against the legal state. Here, of course, there will be other dangers. New silences will be created here. How do you know how to use it here? How do you limit it? Of course, it will be in the discretion of the person who wields this infinite authority, how to use an unlimited power, how to use a arbitrary authority. There won't be any other restrictions. For all these reasons, this amendment poses great dangers to the state of law. With such a change of law, if you go before the European Court of Human Rights with such a law, the European Court of Human Rights will conclude that this law is not a valid law. It's a law that's so vague, so open-ended, where it begins, where it ends, gives unlimited authority, the law state, and therefore incompatible with democracy. This has to be fixed. This will raise pressure on Turkey's democracy, the freedoms in Turkey. A French writer named Martine Gozlan wrote a book on Turkey, a very new book. He says there are three deceptions in Turkey during the Justice and Development Party period: there are three deceptions in Turkey. First: Turkey is not a democratic model. Second: Turkey is not a secular model. Third: Turkey is not a geopolitical model. Why do they like it? Because because it looks like them, because it's becoming a state of the Middle East, and because it's becoming an anti-Western state, they look at it with sympathy and they see it as a model for themselves. But Martine Gozlan asks the question, "Well, if this is a model for Arabs, what will Turkey's Republic of Turkey's model be?" he says. I think that's the question that needs to be addressed. We are in fact one step further away from democracy, from the state of law by accepting this proposal today, and we have also injured the Turkish Republic of Turkey's model, which respects the democratic, legal state, respects human rights. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0054par0133	Thank you, Mr. Specten. Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0055par0137	Mr. President, there is a motion first adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the absence of lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party during this period, at least during which we entered. For that, I'd like to express my thanks to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Supreme Assembly has agreed to the motion to prevent torture. In that case, the entire House needs to make an actual contribution to the commission on this motion by all groups. Everyone has to look at these studies with sympathy and behind them contribute to some of the suspects in the country, some of the allegations, some of the accusations, some of the accusations. In a sense, this will also cause some sounds, some words, and some misunderstandings to change. Let me make this clear: In this country, many facts are not viewed as facts, they are not perceived as facts; facts are different, perceptions are shaped in another dimension. In this regard, such research, such studies are needed in order to be able to equalize perception with the phenomenon, to ensure that it happens at the same level. Avoiding them means contributing directly to such activities, and let me stress that first. Dear lawmakers, if torture is the meanest business, if everyone is against torture, if we know zero tolerance for torture, let's set up this commission and make sure that this commission continues its work successfully by eliminating all suspects, abuses, rumors. Let's save institutions, concepts, and individuals from slander and accusations. The fact that there was no systematic torture in Turkey does not mean that some people did not torture or that some people did not act that way. In no legal state, in any constitution, there are no rules that justify torture, legitimacy, and legitimacy. But it's not about whether the law sees fit, it's not about theory, it's not about theory, it's about the enforcers. It's about appliances, about some people making a law of themselves. Some governments call themselves states, and I mean religion, and I mean morality. All decay, all rot, all total totalitarianism begins. In this regard, it is wrong to address the issue as a matter of law and to look at it in this dimension, since torture is not tolerated in any of the laws of the ages. It's a matter of social, cultural, social, traditional nature. That's the way to go about it. So let me just say that tomorrow he's coming here, we're all going to talk, we're going to argue, we're going to comment on it. I'll tell you one thing: preventing or preventing violence or child abuse on a woman, certain measures like this, some approach forms, will be tried by law to be protected or controlled. But let me tell you something: there's a law, there's a constitution, and there's a father law in this country, unfortunately. I'm saying it under the fingernails, but it's very closely related to how many unconstitutional elements or constitutional or laws are perceived by those people. This brings up the torture, the accusation, and the kind of abuse I've just expressed. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is where the common mind is credited and consolidated. For one thing, these Justice and Development Party friends, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not the Assembly of Justice and Development Party, it is the Assembly of Turkey. So I would like to remind you here in particular that turning the Justice and Development Party's mind into the Turkish Grand National Assembly or thinking in that dimension will lead you to a terrible amount of narcissism and egoism. It's a place to bring solutions to people's problems. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is not a place for people to rationalize the mind of power. Look, I'm going to tell you something, we're looking at it in awe, and we're seeing: as the National Movement Party, we've made a lot of proposals about animalism, agriculture, the forest village, and the narcissist, about the farmer's problems, and we've brought them over and over again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and The other side of the opposition, the other elements, has made several similar motions, and you have successfully rejected them. The Adeta Justice and Development Party Group has turned into a group responsible for rejecting the opposition's motions. In these matters, we said agriculture, and you refused. I suggest you all: how much rice was bought between 2003 and 2011? How many soy were imported in this country between 2003 and 2011? How many shopping malls opened in this country between 2003 and 2011? You open a shopping mall, you cause hundreds, thousands of small tradesmen to shut down. Opening a shopping mall means leaving a thousand people unemployed. The shopping malls you opened today -- quite frankly -- have sofas from America. Have the sites entered into the roots of the furniture makers? When you bring the sofas from the U.S. to the public in this country, then you leave those who make those sofas out of work, and then you put them out of business, sir, and it was worse before, and even worse in the 1937s, and we've fixed it now from this point of view. Sir, we set a record in exports. Right, yeah, you set a record. What did you do in the import, what did you do in the open? Well, the problem is it's about imports, it's about explanations. Then, how much of the export is imported? Now, it's important not to keep the logic out of this: between income and expense, between production and consumption, the more you open the scissors between exports and imports, the more open problems you're facing this country. This country has been transformed into a society of trade and consumption. 80 percent of people are hostages now, either hostages of credit cards or hostages of car loans, hostages of consumer loans or hostages of various elements they use to get by. If you look at it that way, that's the only way we'll know how to deal with social problems there. We brought it in, and we said, "Let's work on animalism. "Sir, livestock is so perfect, you know, all kinds of loans, all kinds of incentives. " Nice words, polished approaches, and then what happens? We import animals from foreign places to sacrifice at the Festival of Sacrifice. Sir, we're eating banana from Ecuador. During the election work -- I'm very clear -- I saw an inscription on a business window in GIMAT. It says in the article: "The new crop of Chilean nuts has arrived." I'm very clear, the fresh produce has arrived. When I was told to enter, I asked: How long and how long is the distance between Chile and Turkey? The ship arrives in 45 days. What about the old nutmeg? Is he who broke into the bottom of the nutmeg of Yahu, Aksaray, Niğdeh, and the silver house? Now, let's talk about this, let's talk about animalism. Yeah, there's a problem here. How can you ignore that? You deny it, we make everything perfect. You say. You're using a mind. The mind you're using is static, assigned to a certain area, and it's looked at within that dimension, so it's impossible to get out. However, the best administrations, the best governments, are the governments that can use those who say no to them, to draw conclusions from their noes and cover their gaps. The opposition is showing you your flaws. This country belongs to all of us. And whatever good you have done in this land - Allah is pleased with you all. We're grateful for the power, there's no doubt about it, but there's a system that's not done in this country that works for large masses in this country, and it's working for foreign companies, for financial capitalin outside, and for mechanisms that are trying to integrate Turkey into globalization. We want to turn these mechanisms in favour of Turkey, to set foot in these countries, the economy. This country's animal, this country's agriculture, agricultural products, this country's forest products are to be used at the highest level. In this agriculture we're talking about today, a significant part of Turkey is not planting its fields right now, it's not because it's not worth it, it's because people and some crops stay in the fields. Well, shouldn't we have a solution to all this? Now, when we were bringing all of this up, we looked at it, and it turns out that power once had a narcissistic sense. Don't keep saying we got 50 votes per cent, you have a life of choice, who knows what you'll be in the second election!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0056par0151	Seven elections, seven elections! That's what the others said.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0055par0152	So I'll tell you this: take all the votes you want, save all the capital you want. Whatever you do, it does not allow you to break the law or to break the law of those who do not think the way you do, nor will it give you an opportunity, nor will it give you a right to do so. You say the state of law, you say the constitutional order, you say democracy, we applaud them all. There's nothing wrong with them. But when we get to the application of these, we find out that there's been a case of a criminal or a criminal charge that has been filed against a very healthy evidence, and you're trying to take the issue away from the judiciary, and I'm telling you...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0057par0154	There was no trial, Hajji.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0055par0155	No charges were filed, but the investigation is ongoing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0058par0156	Why do you say it's been opened, according to you, you're not telling the truth?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0055par0157	You're interfering with the investigation, you're interfering with the investigation, you're committing a crime. So, there comes a day when someone's going to try to influence the trial, and you're going to get away with it. For him, the past was even worse, and we do everything in the perfect way, and then we continue to do it like this, and that's what you'll know, and you can go that way, but I want to underline that the road you're going is a dead end. There's zero tolerance for torture, illegal... (No one says anything about them, but you've closed the roads to torture to zero tolerances.) As I just said, look, the ministers of this country are giving a speech, giving a speech about an investigation. What does the minister say? He says: "I can't explain to my mind that the Undersecretary of the MIT has been called into the investigation. I mean, we have reason to believe that the commander of a 700,000-strong army has been arrested by a person who has served as Chief of Staff for as long as this time, but the prosecutor is unable to investigate the allegations that have been taken into the hands of the prosecutor due to talks or other talks in Oslo. We don't know if we can't understand it either. Another, Ahmet Davutoglu, said that Hakakan Fidan and his team did the right work. I have to ask, Mr. Davutoglu, did you do this work together? Or should I ask, are you in on it? How do you know?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0059par0160	Do you doubt it, Hajji? Do you doubt it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0055par0161	Deputy Prime Minister Bozdağ -- he's a lawyer, which is interesting -- says that when we look at what's going on, there's no crime committed, there's a duty done. So you already knew everything. So you're aware of the allegations, and you're going to be doing the D.A.'s office. Then woe to this country. Then the question must be asked, "Where is the walking, judgment, and law? ' If you get together, if you're the judge, if you're the prosecutor, if you're the suspect, then there's no problem, but it's not much good evidence. Now, this Parliament is a Parliament with eight MPs in it, all of which belong to the opposition. Why don't you bring in a law on these things? You bring in a law to take an MIT member from the inside or from the paws of the judge, but you don't bring in a law on them. Then, why did you allow people to be arrested in the incident of the surrender of the colonel, who had taken refuge in Syria for $100,000, for all sins and crimes and crimes? Bring him along, and tell him there is no crime here, there is duty, there is duty. Therefore, it is the duty of this Assembly and everyone to do what is necessary for those who violate the law and do business against the law. Now, for whatever reason, the prosecutor, who conducted the investigation into the case, as many cases that could have touched the AKP, is suddenly being brought in with an excuse, or, if he is at all, a criminal cover is being put on him. I'll tell you one thing: Lieutenant Chelebi, who was taken into custody in Ergenekon's case, was transferred to the phone number of 37 people from the Hezb-ut Tahrir militia, then there was an appeal to the court, and at the end of the month, it turns out that someone from the outside actually transferred the phone numbers of these 37 terrorists here. Do you know what they said to them? Why don't we just tell the Lighthouse prosecutors that they falsified the document? If there is a crime, can the crime be applied otherwise to the A, or to the B? Does that make any sense? What conscience can take it? I especially want to underline something here. Now, to agitate problems... or rather, problems exist to solve, there are no problems to exploit and agitate. In this regard, we need to address these problems, rather than go around them, we need to go directly to the truth, but the power corrupts, the absolute power corrupts, they think. ▪ Those who work in democratic ways can betray democratic ideals. Once they're in business, they can act in an illegal or democratic manner to avoid going through business again. There is a law in political science called "Oligarchy's law of brass." Or there is an approach. Today, I see in power that you really are a prisoner of such an approach here. I'd like to read the first verse from here once again by Sultan Suleiman of the Law, which our Prime Minister reads all the time but does not follow: There's no viable object in the public, like the state, It's like a breath of health in a government jihad. "Saltane" is only a jihan gavga. It's like a revelation to be in the world of bliss. The great Solomon spoke in a sense that the world was not even left to Sultan Süleyman. Sultan Mehmet de Akkoyunlu, who conquered Istanbul, wrote a warning letter to those who were out of line, trusting in his power for his rule. Sultan Fatih says: "He is proud of the state of the person, he is out of line, and if he trespasss against my land of Islam, he will lose his legitimacy. And I will come with an unrestrained soldier in the month of Shevval, and I will remove his persecution from the oppressed. This is exactly what was said in the end of the Long Hassanites. To go down in history from here, every power has an election life in democracies. Don't be proud, don't be proud, don't be proud. Those who brought you here know how to take you. Democracys can't afford to cross the line, to be surprised. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0060par0175	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0061par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. Torture, maltreatment, degrading behavior, I suppose, associated with human beings, human values, honorable life. At the same time, the measure of a country's democratisation and whether it is a civilized country is often measured by the statistics of torture. I mean, how much torture is there in that country? How much is it done? What are the effective measures? What's going on? When we look at the research proposal, it is intended to open a parliamentary investigation into torture and abuse claims, especially considering its recent increase in these issues. These research, you know, is a three-month study. In general, the ruling party consists of majority members. One falls to us, two falls to the MPP, three falls to the CHP, and 12 falls to the ruling party. So the number that will ultimately determine the decisions of the commission here is the majority at the ruling party again. Of course, he was tortured on September 12th, in this House, I believe, among all parties, there are those who were detained and tortured on September 12th. No.5, like Ahmet Turk. The situation of those who passed through Lu Prison is much, much worse. There are cases of those who were tortured in the prison, in Metris, and today the lists of those who died in torture in the type F monsters are increasing. F-type prisons now have over 100 patients and prisoners who are about to die. Recently, our Group Vice President, Pervin Buldan, read the letter from Mehmet Aras. The next day, the news of his death came. In what areas is torture, abuse? We're looking, starting in the armband, the police, the police, the detention, the arrest, especially in political crimes and in some qualified crimes. I mean, back in the day, there was no wiretaps, no wiretaps, no wiretaps. Those who were tortured were forced to talk; they were given electricity, they were put in the fall; 66 were described as being taken into the wheel, they were tortured, they were killed; they were dragged through the snow, they were tortured over and over again. Now, this is a serious threat, especially in times of coup, martial law, if it continues today. Now, as of 99, Turkey has become a new place. In order to become a member of the European Union -- the coalition period -- there were serious changes in the Constitution on October 17, 2001. So in the Constitution of the coup, before the AK PRIVITY on personality rights, fair trial, human fundamental rights and freedoms... look, I'm afraid I'm not meant to tell you, I'm telling you clearly. There are amendments to the Constitution here in the period before you. Open it, read it, it's 2001; it's the late Ecevit coalition. Now, if you read there, the 17th article has very clear definitions, ▪ Everyone has the right to live, to maintain and develop their material existence. No one can be tortured or tortured; no one can be subjected to punishment or treatment that is incompatible with human dignity. And then there's the ban on running by force, the 18th article: no one can be forced to work. No chores allowed. We make jokes from time to time. With your motions, you know, until the end of the day. You say running the House all the time is a kind of chore, but those who don't read the human rights law well don't understand it, so we're looking at a situation that works 24 hours a day. Now, after the constitutional reform was implemented in this process, the 90th article of the Constitution was changed. International contracts are becoming illegal in our internal law. Two of the most important contracts in these international contracts: the Civil and Political Rights Convention of the United Nations, then the Economic, Social Contract. But most importantly, at the end of last semester, the United Nations Select Protocol Against Torture was approved by our Assembly, and we all agreed to it. I think it was one of the best decisions we've ever made, we've made this decision together, it's an international contract. It makes sense that the Istanbul Protocol would even take the name Istanbul Protocol on the standards of fighting torture. Now, when we look at international, above-national law, above-national contracts, Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe, a member of a regional park, has adopted the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 3 of the third article considers persecution, abuse, and dishonorful conduct a ban on crime. By the way, we're out of harmonies, we're out of compliance laws. Has he changed his mind? Has he changed his mind? He hasn't really changed much. I mean, things have changed, so I wish our House had decided that, but because of the outside dynamics, the European Union's reforms have changed. That wretched environment in detention has been changed slightly more, the procedures for holding a report have been changed, the arrangements for the officers have been made. Although this is relatively intimidating, the main thing is to start a radical training process in the police and the gendarmes and the police, and to teach it in police schools, military schools, schools. Now they claim to have been given these as well, but we don't think that's enough. For one thing, it's not enough that the police, the gendarmes, the guards, the guards, have to go through training. If it were 70, would it come to you today from Edirne F type, Tekirdağ type F -- after that -- Kandira type F, Sincan (I don't know -- I don't know)? I get torture, abuse letters every day. Look, I visited the prisons where our MPs stayed this week. If you're putting 38 people in an eight-man women's ward, that's torture. Look, Diyarbakır E-type Prison has 38 women staying in the ward of Şırnak MP Selma Irmak in the 8-member women's ward, where 8 women are staying, and has now launched a hunger strike. Unchanging, indefinitely, the fast of death. Why? To protest this torture, these pressures, this isolation, this insulation, this injustice, this unlawfulness. If a congressman in this nation's House is currently on a death fast, it's a remarkable event. A public-elected MP is on a hunger strike against these tortures. Again, Şırnak MP Faysal Sarıyıldız is in Mardin Prison, and he has also started an indefinitely hunger strike as of yesterday, and Mardin Prison is now full of 4 times its current capacity. I mean, one bed, three shifts isn't enough. Three people in one bed can't sleep eight hours apart, one man standing. Now, don't you think that when you fill these prisons, when you put four people in a bed, you both violate human rights and abuse them and force them to behave dishonorably, and that's an app? We have 130,000 prisoners and prisoners, the current destination. I often pass this on to the Minister of Justice with his reports. Now there are special courts in Diyarbakir, Diyarbakir, Diyarbakir... you know there are special courts in Diyarbakir, where they bring prisoners from Mardin, Urbana, Siirt, and they bring them in handcuffed. You know that Diyarbakır courthouse you're looking at outside after you bring it in on the road in a torture, handcuffs, and a terrible jam, and there's a sixth of the courtrooms on those screens that show up in the courtrooms. Excuse me, that's worse than the bathroom. Do you know that there are people who have been brought in as defendants who haven't been testified yet, who have been kept there for 15 hours? They're under arrest in such an environment at the bottom of the Diyarbakır Courthouse. That's not what I'm saying. People are being held up. So, friends, don't the prosecutors see this, the Department of Criminal Affairs, the Houses of Investigation? The Human Rights Commission's been to two or three prisons, and reports are going to say, "Burkkale or something; it's almost paradise." So are we going to talk about what we've been through, what we've seen with our eyes, or are we going to talk about the truth? Is such an approach acceptable in a country? Now, you, from here, in the European Court of Human Rights -- in Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, at three points, one, the part of torture -- which is intensive in torture -- the second abuse, and the third is degrading. In these three, Turkey sets a record for all member states in 2011. Is he proud of that, fellas? So if you're proud of it, keep voting for rejection. If your conscience, mercy, humanity, and the religion you believe in, for the sake of your beliefs, if you accept this inhumane treatment, in light of these decisions, vote against it. I don't want the House to work on this human dignity for three months. People are still saying slogans. Human dignity will be defeated by torture. I never forget. We've been through this. At this party, in this House, there are four groups of people who have been tortured. I went through a coup when I was a lawyer. I was in custody, and I looked, and two of the teachers who were brought from Sivas, their beards, were in prison for fifty days, and they were brought to my cell with their eyes closed for fifty days. These two teachers had their eyes closed, and I was alone in the cell. They were talking to each other: we'll notify Hasip Kaplan, our lawyer, and we'll immediately put the acquittal order in front of the prosecutor, and we'll be released. I said on that day: "Valla, your lawyer is here too, he has to leave first." Look, we've come from that day. On the way to today, I gave her a lecture about violence. I've removed what was done in Operation TK. The task force raids the homes of mayors, elected officers, lawmakers in the morning of the night. They raided Layla Zana's house. There's been no word from this House, nothing, nothing. When Merve Karakçı's house was raided, it is the Deputy Prime Minister who is now in the middle of an apocalypse. Now, can there be such an understanding? Human rights or human rights, isn't that everybody's rights law? Now, look, isn't it ironic that violence on women has increased so much in this recent period of time? What's feeding it? Women's murders happen every day. I was at the courthouse today. 16 general secretaries, executives, women executives from the Public Laborers' Union raided their homes, raided their unions, their confederations, brought them all into custody, brought them to the courthouse after five days of detention. What's the difference? You break into his house at the crack of dawn, wreck his house. It's not enough that you take his personal effects, his computers, the institution he belongs to, you print the confederacy, you take the computers of the confederacy. Where does that happen? It happens during the dictatorships, during the dictatorships. Guys, don't let anyone fool you. If you're going to call terrorism "merorism," terrorism is the mindset that commands F-16 planes to bomb. We're going to die 34 lives, we're going to have a weakness for intelligence, we're going to bring in intelligence, we're going to strengthen intelligence, we're going to bring protection, we're going to bring in immunity. Look, I'll tell you this: read the reports of the Human Rights Association, read the reports of MazLUMDER. Most applications are about torture, I took a look at the lists. Although, there's data here, too. Friends have read it. Now, you'll be making a law in a moment. Oh, we say, of course, both intelligence and government, dialogue, negotiation, this must happen; Parliament must do it, the government must do it. That's right, problems are solved to talk, problems can't be solved without talking, but when you put on immunity armor and load the armor, when you leave an unlimited gap in person or institution or other missions, the number is open, the frame is open, the field is open, the area of duty outside MIT, which means that it's private security, the Coast Guard, the Army, the Air Force, the Navy, and even the firefighters, you give a small MIT document to whomever you want, to whomever you want, to whomever you want. No one can investigate the crime he committed after that... you read it in the Silence Report, didn't you? Those who carried those little documents in their wallets in that Silence Report took people's lives, tortured people, and turned Sapanca into a triangle of death. All the unsolved murders are in their files, in their reports. Bring all of those Susurity reports, and you'll see the sheep here, you'll see that the killings have fallen to the level of the extended sergeants, you'll see how the confessionors are being used, you'll see how the agents are being used, you'll see what kind of massacres the intelligence has been involved in, you'll see the white Renaults, you'll see the killings. Now, for God's sake, haven't we learned from the past? Let alone torture, abuse, we'll proceed directly to the arrangements for human life. Then it's very simple to do what's necessary. Come on, we've merged on animal rights, we've merged on animal rights, we've gone out as four parties, and we'll issue a law, including the commission to investigate them. And I invite you to human rights. Mr. Powers, we've agreed on animal rights, please, let's agree on these human rights. We invite you to come to an agreement on human rights. Really, voice this invitation with your conscience, with your conscience. So what are you going to lose? Three months of research motion... listen to experts, go to the United Nations Committee for the Protection of Torture, see, there are very valuable academics in the Human Rights Commission, there are lawyers, let's listen to the CPT, let's look at examples of the world beyond the CPT, how did they build this mechanism? In Spain, how did the people's referee, the public defender's organization, prevent them? What's the difference between that ombudsman and that ombudsman in Turkey? Let's look into these and I'll invite you again about human rights: let's agree on animal rights, let's agree on human rights, let's form this research commission together. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0062par0206	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Amassian MP Mehmet Naci Bostancı. Here you go, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0063par0210	Thank you very much. I salute you all. On what grounds did Fevziye Genghis, who was subjected to abuse at the police station in the district of Izmir Karabağlar, take place in public? Cameras. There were cameras inside the station, and those cameras were placed at the police station to determine if there were any acts against human dignity. Who put it there? AK PARTY did. Cameras were placed in all police stations during the AK PARTY's ruling period. The goal was to determine if there was any illegal, anti-human rights activity in the past, where there has been a number of incidents. That's how he got on the public's agenda, and the newspapers wrote it, and after the incident, about 30 people who were there were suspended, and they're still on trial. Of course, what's mentioned here is true. The state's attorney's case under duress, he'll walk in his own direction. Dear friends, ten or fifteen years ago, if we were talking about the violations of the outposts in this House, we wouldn't have been able to do anything else. Of course, even if there were cameras to detect the violations there, we couldn't do it then, but police stations were the only places in Turkey's recent history where the stories of what happened when the doors closed were closed. Jumping out of the third floor or breaking his head, his eye as he fell down the stairs, stories that the prisoner, his own self-inflicted self-destruction. Yes, there are people in this House who don't just read it out of books when it's called torture, abuse, who have actually lived their own life, all parties. I've been through it myself, and maybe the new generation doesn't know what the unsub is. I've seen how people who were brought in as suspects in the lower level of security were treated one day, two days later. Yes, during September 12th, in many prisons in Turkey, people were tortured, treated badly. So I was in Mamak Military Prison for about a year, where I was exposed to all of this and became a witness. It is true that when Turkey is not only in the 30-year period but in the past -- for various reasons -- I will tell the public about this -- it is true that it is approaching the public as criminals, as suspects, as people who need to be watched, to be disciplined, to be disciplined, and that the state's security devices are in this framework -- to be ironic, I say so. But after the 80s, with the experience of September 12th, Turkey's transformation and transformation have drawn veils over them, and this area has begun to gain clarity, state and community relations, security axed practices, outposts, bureaucratic places, trials -- any place where human rights violations can happen has become more transparent and clearer, a process. In 2000, friends, 12 years ago at a police station in Istanbul, there was a Palestinian suspension registered in the inventory of the state. Anyone who's hung up on a Palestinian hanger knows what it's for. And they made an inventory of the state in 2000. That can't even be thought of today. Over the past ten years, the EC PARTI Power has made arrangements for the rights of expression within the framework of the law of harmony, has made arrangements for child rights, has made arrangements for the equality of women and women's opportunities. We've made arrangements for the problems that a government has seen in this area of the judiciary. Under the 2005 amendment to the Turkish Penal Code, torture, persecution, abuse has been defined, decriminalized, and severely punished. So -- you can see the details of these -- the AK PARTY, as the political will of a democratic, liberal, modern, civilized country, has made the necessary arrangements in the field of justice, and will continue to make the necessary arrangements. We will, of course, continue to be sensitive about abuse and torture, some of the information related to this will be followed when the findings come. It is the duty of government, public officials, and there is also a political power that gives courage and courage to those civil servants, and because of his political position, bureaucratic wheels must work on the basis of human rights that he took from here. You need to see the bigger picture. Where does persecution, torture, abuse come from, why is it done, and how is it essentially prevented? If we see the bigger picture, we have an idea of where we're going with Turkey's problems. Dear friends, for the past five hundred years, people have been viewed as beings who have no right to life in the face of holy authority, against the power of the king, his majesty. 1679 Habeas Corpus, those interested know that while the basic, non-transferable, non-responsible rights of life, freedom and property referred to by John Locke, while the world's modernisation of the process transforms into political power relations, while the public, the community, the crowd, the mob, are on the road to becoming the primary perpetrator of these ruling relations, there are also fewer issues of abuse and torture, from the government's authority. The key is in power relations. Who's running it? How's he running it? Under what legitimacy references does he run? If there is democracy in a country, if there is legitimate power, if the circles representing public power answer to the public, there is no question that public authority, state government, will resort to violence, abuse, persecution to build public consent. These practices, tortures, tortures are in authoritarian governments, they are in totalitarian governments, they are in regimes that don't answer to the public, people don't choose, people don't recall. You can't say anything about human rights, you can't make any public opinion. Recently, in the 20th century, mankind experienced such state models as a great experience, a painful experience. The Soviet Union was a bureaucratic despotism. The place where human rights violations took place in the most incredible way, more recently, in the 1900s, especially in the Soviet Union during Stalin, the great slaughter in 1931 and 1932, the great slaughter in 1937 and 1938, millions of people, unfortunately, were used as cheap labor by a bureaucratic despotism, as prisoners, as machines of a dream of crossing America in various heavy industrial moves. If the political authority in a country does not answer to the public, if it is the power of a minority, if its destiny is to be judged on a charge of self-inflicted legitimacy, there will be torture and torture. Unfortunately, until recently, until the 1980 coup, Turkey was managed by what we call a simple, clear, short understanding of power relations, a structure called bureaucratic custody. Until 1946, there was only one party administration, and after 46, we moved on to multiparty life. While moving into multiparty life, there were no dominant elements in the ruling relations, no ones from the polls who were able to decide what was in the name of Carl Schmitt, as Carl Schmitt put it. Of course, in a place of bureaucratic custody, public consent, transparency of what has been done, relations between public authority and public authority are not clear and transparent. There, officials of the state, even the lowest rank, see themselves as the untouchable power of the holy state against the people, against the civilians. There is information in the public's mind that even touching an officer's buttons begins from six months in prison. You don't even say a word, let alone raise your hand to the people who represent public authority. In the 90s, the Dot magazine did a study at the Kızılay Square. The reporters of Dot magazine asked people who were passing by, they put them up against the wall, they made a search, and people went along without objection. Who are you? Show me your ID. What are you evading? Why do you do such a thing? It didn't even occur to people. Why? Because it's a tradition. If someone is saying a word to him in a commandful voice, giving a command, it obeys because he perceives himself as a representative of the civil world, of the civil people, of the holy state above the people. We went through a process of modernisation, urbanization, metropolization, opening up, economic enrichment, the emergence of economic elites and intellectuals in the 80s, 90s, with the emergence of bureaucratic custody. Basically, power relationships, dear friends, are not just things that happen on a political plane, on their own. It's based on social ground, where the people, the elites, the environments, play a role in power relationships. In Turkey, they are also called Anadolu lions, replaced by established economic elites, and the axis of economic elites has changed. Instead of the readers of the bureaucratic and established elite axis, which constitutes a historical power block with them -- that's the exact term -- the children of Anatolia studied universities, went abroad to graduates, doctorates, have been raised as new intellectuals, who are also familiar with the tradition they come from, but are also familiar with the world. It is the social transformation in Turkey that transforms the ruling relations in Turkey. Generally speaking, friends around the opposition criticize the EC PARTY, and they say: "You have come, you have created a supporting press, you have created a fellow businessman, you have formed allies. " When I hear about this, I see a flaw in reading about the field, politics, economics, sociology. For this: There are some dear friends among us who are certainly aware of Marx's assessments. Marx reversed Hegel's dialect, thus linking material conditions with political relations. In fact, Marx's reasoning is also important in understanding political relations if the exaggeration is left aside. It's the social dynamics that determine power relationships. AK PARTY didn't set up an ally press. AK PARTY didn't fund itself. New wealth rose in Turkey's changing social conditions, new elites, new intellectuals, new bureaucratic environments, new bureaucratic environments, people who won their bread in international markets with blood, sweat and tears, under the protection of the state, without trade in the incubation conditions, marked Turkey's change, and the politics we call politics, political power, and the will here came in return for this social transformation. Otherwise, if this reasoning, the reasoning of the opposition, had been true, it should have come to him by the force of power, by building up allies, by building up supporters, not by the will of the people, but by the support of the people, by the zembil of the sky in some way, not by the support of the people. Thus, Turkey's transformation, its role here is not only in the general assessment of politics and economics, but also in human rights, modernisation, civilisation, in these matters. The role that politics will play in human rights is a political will that states its limits and limits as far as the provision of the judiciary, in relation to bureaucracy, in relation to civilians. And as soon as that will turns out, because I think so, my friend in the AK PARTI, and so on, he doesn't show up because he thinks so, he's the social dynamics that modernize and civilize these people's thoughts, that modernize and modernize Turkey. Since we are his representatives, the AK PARTY has to act as if it were a determinist. In a modernized country, a citizen is a man of age, seeking his rights and law. Today, even people in the village who can't read or write, if they know how to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, if people can seek their rights in international law by consuming internal law, it's because there's a phenomenon of civil citizenship in Turkey. A country's honor, its development, its democracy, and its freedom are registered in these adult citizens, and citizens of Turkey, compared to the past, are people who are more urban, who know their rights, law, who are never deceived, who have never had anything to do with the tradition of beer. These illiterates, who can choose which vegetables are better in the marketplace when they have 500 lira incomes, are mature enough to know which political parties will cure their own problems in politics. Therefore, the direction of Turkey's state, Turkey's society, is in a direction where human dignity is higher, where rights and law are sought in all places. The place where this is recorded, where it is written is the social ground, where its political will is surely with its opposition, but its host is the AK PARTI, who plays the main role. Hopefully, a Turkey that we have less talk about, less debate, less human rights, more honored by our citizens, everyone. Thank you very much, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0064par0233	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0065par0237	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to thank the General Assembly for making the preliminary call. And I'll take the fact that this preliminary interview has been held as a precept for the adoption of this motion of research, first of all, that the House accepts a motion for research for the first time, and we can really talk about it. I've just listened to Mr. Minister, Mr. Hodja, but believe me, the human rights advocates, both speak in both terms: these were talks that legitimized punishment, talks that legitimized punishment. How do we take precautions against torture and torturers here, and how do we minimize this? We have proposed a research proposal, but both talks have, unfortunately, legitimized and encouraged. Mr. Secretary, I'm not saying that the human rights violation hasn't happened in our time, but it has been reduced to a minimum, so we've established that will. I'd like to give you a number of 2011 figures of my very close friends, whose many lawmakers are proud of being members and founders, and I appreciate their work, because I know that you don't read those Association reports anymore, so let me read them here, and let the record show that maybe you'll come to your senses a little bit. The Human Rights Report in 2011 revealed a dark picture. According to the report, 158 were killed in 2011, 47 were tortured in torture, 259 were killed in bombings and mines, 18 were killed in ritual killings. 34,947 people were also taken into custody in the same year. This is the report from the 1950s, the 60s, the 70s, the 80s, the 90s, not the 2011 MEZLUMDER. I'm reading the report, and so far, a minister of yours hasn't answered it, and he hasn't said it's wrong. He didn't say it's wrong. He didn't say it's wrong. He didn't say it's wrong. He didn't say it's wrong, so I admit it's true. I'll leave aside the reports of other human rights organizations, the Human Rights Foundation has very valuable reports, the Human Rights Association has very valuable reports, the Turkish Medical Association has very valuable reports, they've written reports on this, and I'd like you to look at those reports. We also submitted this research proposal after the incident in İzmir. It is true. But I just told you, I had the Clave Research Center investigate in July 2011. The title of the study is this: "Consistence and Persecution" and "Resistance to Do Not Do the Job" in July 2011. I had it done. Then I asked the Minister of Justice the question on August 4, 2011. It's a comprehensive motion. How many pages? Seven pages. The Minister responded on 23/12/2011, giving a comprehensive answer. Dear friends, I received these numbers from the Minister's answers and from the Research Center's research. The sun doesn't roll with clay! Torture continues as an administrative practice in Turkey, only covered up. I'd like that to be known. In 2004, in 2005, in 2006, I was the president of the Diyarbakır Bar. In the seminars held for caution, amongst the lessons given by the experts to the security guards, how do you save yourself? There were lessons and they expressed in those lessons: a report, so you ignore the marks and so on. That way you can hide the torture. Look, dear friends, here are the numbers. I got these numbers from the department's numbers. There were 24,938 cases filed just last year. I don't know the number of defendants in these cases. These cases are the case against the police, the case against the security guards. It's the number of cases, perhaps 50,000 to 60,000 citizens. If you say there is no torture, then let's do the opposite, and I'll withdraw the motion. ▪ Security officials are being tortured and tortured by our citizens! They are so victimized, so much resistance to them! Let us look into it. Why are our citizens resisting the police? If our police, after that our security officers are doing legitimate work, if they're serving in accordance with the law, why do citizens of the state of the Republic of Turkey resist and insult security guards so much? That's a problem we have to solve. If there's no torture, it's a problem, let's investigate it. It's hard to say torture, there's torture. It's hard for you to say torture. You don't have time for this, Minister said so, let's run this Parliament by making law at work, but let's not engage in these kind of commissions. Every congressman has a very valuable job to do here, so don't let the Clave worry about such things as torture. We've already made our laws as legislatures, we've sent them. That's what he said. Well, if this House isn't going to investigate torture, if it's not going to investigate unsolved murders, who is? Is it just the duty of the judge? Is it just the work of the executive body? Can't we, as Congress, make suggestions to run it as a legislature, to guide the judiciary, to reveal the difficulties that have arisen in practice? Why are we running from this? What are we all doing here? Dear friends, what are we doing here? Eight or nine of our friends will take over, present their report, and if necessary, we'll issue a law, and if necessary, the executive body will take the necessary measures, but you avoid it, avoid the torture. Look, dear friends, I've read this. Maybe 15 or 20 research proposals from this one, dear friends. Thomas Hammarberg's January 10th report, dear friends. Ten research proposals, 20 research proposals. Now, who is this Thomas Hammarberg, the civil rights commissioner? He didn't come to inspect the Republican People's Party, he didn't come to inspect the Peace and Democracy Party, he didn't come to inspect the National Movement Party; he came to inspect your government, he came to supervise the implementation. This report wasn't written for us, this 30 pages report wasn't written for us. The findings here were not written for us, positive suggestions, positive suggestions, negative suggestions; they were written for you, but also for the legislature. So, come, accept the motion, let's work together here. In addition, let's show the active attitude of the legislature against the torturers, and there's no need to avoid it. Finally, I'll take your word for it. I'll take your word for it. I'll move on. I warned you about MIT the other day, dear friends. You're trying to get behind everything; you're trying to get behind the law, you're trying to get behind the law, but one day, this detour will catch up with you. Legally and politically, you're doing it wrong. Look, no one would think of it, because you, many of you, have not been in martial law courts, you have not been in law enforcement, you have not been in private court, you haven't been in law enforcement, you haven't been in state security courts, you haven't been in law enforcement, so you don't know how that logic works. So, you're in shock for today, but tomorrow I'm reading the Article 283, so that you won't have another surprise the next day. You might say, "This stuff isn't for him, it's not for him." But I'm reading it, for the record. Those who have allowed a criminal person to get away with research, arrest, arrest, or execution of the sentence... are members of the board, who will make the law here the day after tomorrow. They will say yes. They'll think of it. So let's not make a single-person, event-specific law. Let's look into whatever's behind this problem together. We can reach a compromise in this House. It's not the opposition, not the opposition parties, not the Republican People's Party that's running away from reconciliation; it's you who are now sweeping Turkey's fundamental problems under the carpet. You've been in power for ten years, you've become a master; yes, you've mastered the rule of law, you've mastered human rights violations, you've mastered private life. Let us demonstrate your skill again in making Turkey a law state, working together. If we can do that, then the 24th term has done its true function. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0066par0256	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Preliminary talks on the parliamentary inquiry motion have been completed. Now, I'm going to appeal to your votes on whether or not to open a congressional investigation: those who have agreed to open a parliamentary investigation... those who have refused... are not accepted. Now, according to the Interior Charter 60, I promise only five of our members of parliament who have entered the system. Here you go, Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0067par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. The Rize Administration Court has decided to halt in 2008 in connection with the mining activity, which includes the location of Cerattepe, which is just above our Artvin. This court's decision has been ruled out, and as of next semester, the Director-General of Mining Affairs, tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., would like to re-arrest this place. When the tender is examined, it will be seen that very bad smells are coming from this tender. I tried to warn the Minister, I said some things. Perhaps the result of this tender will be a judicial process, perhaps -- I'm afraid -- a Supreme Court process. This tender condition clearly describes a company, meaning its color, its sex, its company, its location. That's why I'm requesting that this go down in the House, and I'm warning the Minister here, please stop this tender tomorrow. This tender, which is intended to be carried out on top of Artvin, is above all, against contract laws, against legal regulations. I demand that the tender be stopped immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0068par0266	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0069par0269	Mr. President, a 4.7-sized earthquake occurred today in Malatya in the village of Darende Çukurkaya. We're all glad there's no casualties in the earthquake. We've been told that an abandoned house has been destroyed, and there are cracks in several houses. Dear friends, Malatya, one of the most active faults in our country, has suffered major casualties in the past years. While the Van earthquake remained fresh in the minds, the earthquake in Malatya was still a victim of the Van earthquake. Malatya is not prepared for an earthquake, just like our other cities. It is not known which buildings in Turkey are earthquake-proof and which buildings are weak. According to studies, 70 per cent of the buildings in Malatya will be destroyed in the possible earthquake. Therefore, in the central districts and villages of Malatya, the building must be inventoryd, and a decent urban transformation must be implemented. Government institutions must now take precautions to prevent the casualties of Malatya in a possible earthquake. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0070par0273	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0071par0276	Mr. President, I'm going to speak a little louder, maybe the House will be quiet. I don't think we've had enough work efficiency from the noise of this House in the first place. We're all forming this House, and as we all speak, please, all of my fellow MPs, especially the ministers, do or do not say a word in the discussion of certain, important issues, because one of the ministers is being entered into a polemic, one of the ministers is coming, and one of them is coming, and we don't know which one we're dealing with, and we don't know which one will answer to us. And I respectfully ask the entire House to either listen to what's being said or talk outside if they don't listen to what's being said next. That's what I'm suggesting to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0072par0279	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0073par0282	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister of Youth and Sports. I think he's sitting backstage. When we ask a minister a question, I'll tell that minister to answer you in writing. I think that today, in this House, there are always private, private laws being discussed. I'd like to ask our Minister when a loan and housing institution in Kozan district of Adana will be tendered and when its programme will be established. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0074par0287	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Your Honor...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0075par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we all know that Fevziye Genghis Izmir was beaten and tortured at the police station. On February 15th, two days ago in the court of Fevziye Genghis, the judge ruled that there was not sufficient evidence of torture, and referred the case to the original criminal court, not to severe punishment. I'd like to ask you, isn't this torture? Mr. Secretary just mentioned human rights violations. Isn't that a violation of human rights? What will our ministers do from now on? We want a government that is the same, not a government that has different words and applications. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0076par0294	Thank you, Mr. Trust. Finally, I promise Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0077par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. While Mr. Family and Social Policy Minister Fatma Şahin is here, I'd like to ask him a question. If he sees fit, if he can answer, I'd appreciate it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0076par0299	Mr. Congressman, this is not a question-answer, it's a request for a statement based on the 60th of the Civil Code. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0077par0301	I know, I know, sir, but we don't always see Fatma Falcon, Mr. Secretary is here. I'd like to know about it from him, if possible. When will the bill for preventing violence against the woman arrive in Parliament? Because we've all known lately that violence against women has gone up a lot, and there's been a lot of women's murders. There's an urgent need to take precautions on this matter. I see that Mr. Fatma Şahin is making an effort on this matter, but I think it is urgent that this bill come to the House. If the Minister can make a statement on that, thank you very much. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit03spe0078par0304	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0078par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. The Commission and the Presidential Representative? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Isparta MP Recep Special (Isparta) and Justice Commission Report (Isparta). The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 164 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk will speak on top of the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0079par0017	Mr. President, Isparta MP Mr. Recep, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the law proposal to amend the MIT Law given by Special. I salute you all. (x) 164 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Dear lawmakers, we are here today to discuss a law proposal that concerns the right to live under Article 17 of the Constitution, which was established after the coup of September 12, 1980, which we all shouted at, and that shows that it has deviated from the principle of democratic law. Maybe this bill is a clause, but the meaning of this law proposal is very serious, and it's going to be huge. Dear MPs, we all know that last week by the İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Heavy Criminal Court Prosecutor, Mr. Hakan Fidan and former Undersecretary of MIT, Emre Taner, former Deputy Undersecretary of MIT, were informed that the investigation into the Sun and the 2 MIT members had been launched and immediately rioted by the government and the parties of the AKP. It's the first time they've made a statement from an MIT member in Turkey. First, any pressure has been imposed to change the decision of the prosecutor's attorney, who has launched this investigation, who has started it, who has led the investigation, who has made changes to the decision, but, without any change in his decision, Friday at 1700 p.m., this proposal is being prepared quickly -- in an instant and in a state of panic, prepared with the sense of escape from the current challenge -- has been presented to the Parliament and has been told by the Justice Commission on the telephone that the law is on its way and that it is being distributed to the Commission and distributed on the agenda on Friday at 18 p.m.m.m. It's sent to members of the Commission via e-mail address after 00. My dear friends, on Tuesday, we discussed this proposal in the Commission, expressed our criticism. Now, first of all, what I'm trying to say is that democracy has to answer the question: Do democracy have to deviate from the state of law in order to fight terrorism? Or do we need to open channels that will go to an illegal organisation outside the state's legal organisations? The Republic of Turkey, as written in its Constitution -- as written in Article 2 of the Constitution -- is indeed a democratic legal state -- then it must obey this principle in the fight against terrorism and in other matters, and everyone must embrace the rule of law. Actually, I'm looking at the newspapers, and it's said that the architect of this proposal is Mr. Recep Special, the architect of this proposal, actually, Mr. Prime Minister. Now, I'm asking your entire delegation, and I'm asking all of Turkey: If the İstanbul Special Prosecutor's High Criminal Court had not called these people to testify and had not been called to testify that they had been investigated, would this bill have come to this House, my dear friends? We're going to have to go out and give the interrogation objectively first. Dear lawmakers, after this proposal came, I see that riots immediately began from the government, shouting and shouting, and Mr. Bekir Bozdağ immediately made statements that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ had misread the law text by the special court of the criminal court. My dear friends, what is this about? According to Article 26 of the existing MIT Law, it is subject to the Prime Minister's permission to be investigated for the crimes that were born or carried out by members of the MIT. Now, based on this, Mr. Bozdağ and government officials have argued that the special official court must be granted permission from the Prime Minister to open an investigation. I'm going to put aside the wrong or the right of that thought, and we can discuss it, it's a thought. But, my dear friends, this is not the first time that MIT members have been taken into account. Earlier, under the Anti-Irtica Action Plan, which was launched with an anonymous and anonymous letter, the deputy chief of Istanbul has testified as the defendant and is being tried as the defendant. Mr. Bozdağ and the government have to ask: wasn't this person a member of the MIT? Wasn't this person's testimony taken by the same court, while the accused was being held, there was no Article 26 of the MIT Law? Then why didn't you come out and yell? I continue with you in Erzincan in 2009, just two years ago, Erzurum Special Prosecutor Osman Şanal, President of Erzincan MİT Branch Sadri Barkın, and Kılşim Hacel took MİT into custody on December 4, 2009, and detained him in a series of tense incidents. On December 7, 2009, he was arrested and arrested. So he didn't call you to testify, he didn't invite you to testify, like they did. They went, they raided it, they took the MIT, and they took these people into custody. Was there then no Article 26 of the MIT Law? Mr. Secretary, why didn't you tell me then? Then why didn't you say you needed the Prime Minister's permission? Moving on, friends: MIT Asia District Chiefmişaviri Explorer Kozinoğlu returned from Afghanistan to Turkey on March 9, 2011. A day later, he was arrested in the Oda TV case, and he's being tried as a defendant in that case, and my dear friends, this person, you know, died in the Silivri dungeons. We don't know if he was killed or not. Well, wasn't Explorer Kozinoglu a member of MIT? When Kozinoglu was on trial, wasn't there a 26th article? The head of the Istanbul MIT District is now being tried as a suspect, as well as my dear friends, as part of the operation on the fix in Istanbul. Dear lawmakers, there are no double standards in law. It's important to ask here, with all this illegality going on, aren't these special authorities making a mistake in commenting? Didn't these special-level courts make illegal, violations of the European Court of Human Rights decisions in Ergenekon, Oda TV, Sledgehammer cases, TK cases, sympathetic lawsuits? Now they've made a comment error? The government needs to answer these questions, but there is a positive outcome in the name of democracy, which is this: is there a conflict between Fethullah Gülen-Erdoğan or not? It's not my business, the newspapers are always on top of it. Or is the code for this conflict a judicial-MIT conflict? That's none of your business. There's one thing that concerns me as a lawyer, and it's that private court courts that have become the center of production of injustices and illegalities really have become unsavory, rude, lawless practices that are now disturbing the ruling environment, so even with the boomerang effect, the power must now come to its senses, as Mr. Justice Minister once said in the past, rather than discussing things one by one by one. What's rooting it out? It is to remove the special authority courts that form the center of these events, my dear friends. In one speech -- when asked -- Mr. Secretary says: "We can't discuss the issues one by one. If we discuss this today, we will have to discuss another matter tomorrow. My dear friends, Mr. Bkent Arinc, as Deputy Prime Minister Ergenekon and KCK will answer for what they've done in cases and other cases. Everyone will answer for what they've done. And here all institutions should be able to account for what they've done. In that case, it is necessary to ask Bulent Arinc: Really, what is the purpose of trying to rescue and rescue these people from the investigation launched by the Istanbul special prosecutor's criminal court for crimes in Article 250? Why don't you take it out on account? This offer of law brought in today is not a very innocent proposal of the law, valued lawmakers. In fact, this bill defines a privilege and immunity for those whom the Prime Minister will appoint to perform the task on a special assignment, as the current MIT Law has been granted immunity for members of the MIT. We just told you that this bill was so unprofessional that I don't believe that my friend who prepared the proposal was prepared; I respect him because a lawyer doesn't prepare this proposal, it's so unprofessional that... Now, first, look, this bill has been offered. How did this bill come about? It's like this: the members of the MIT or those who were assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special task, so the two groups, the special group, were assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special task... what is this special task? No one knows. So, who will be assigned? For example, can the Prime Minister appoint the leader of the terrorist organization in this context? In the commission, my friends said, "Honey, that's not gonna happen. So would the great Prime Minister do this? And I ask you: that you have appointed in this country, made commander of the forces, led by the Turkish Armed Forces, made Chief of Staff, Ilker Başbug is being tried today on charges of establishing and leading a terrorist organization, and this person has been accused of being Ergenekoncu (e.g. Ergenekoncu), who has infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces in the indictment. So why shouldn't the Prime Minister? I mean, where does the Prime Minister's credibility come from? I mean, can friends be the kind of security that people in a legal state create? So, when we look at these events, you can't place people's assurances on a Prime Minister. All right, in my opinion, he can appoint the director of a terrorist organization. Why would he do that? It is not clear that it is about to carry out a special task. Friends, our Constitution is open, no one can use a government authority in the 6th article of the Constitution or the Constitution that does not take the source of organs from the Constitution. It is now clear in the Constitution and the laws which the Prime Minister will perform. Now think of something that I did with the special assignment of the Prime Minister, such as Mr. Prime Minister, to assassinate the main opposition party, to assassinate the President, for example, or to assassinate the President or to assassinate the main opposition party. There's no stopping it. The Prime Minister won't do it. Now, I've been informed that the AKP Group is going to make a motion. That would limit the special assignment to being a public servant. Well, my friends, this is an indication that the proposal of the law is unprofessionally prepared. Again, it was said in the Justice Commission that this law proposal is applied to the past. See, my dear friends, the second article of the Constitution is the state of law. This proposal is contrary to the rule of law in Article 2 of the Constitution, which is against the principle of separation of the powers written in the Constitution, which violates the law's law order in Article 137. No one, Prime Minister or President, can give orders about a crime. Now, what will the Prime Minister order? What special task will he command? So the state's legal institutions in this country can't carry out their duties, but the legal bodies that belong to the Prime Minister are unable to carry out the mission of the National Intelligence Agency, and the need for Mr. Prime Minister's special assignment? Why does the Prime Minister need this? When we say this, you give the Prime Minister the authority to form his own private organization within the state. When we say that our friends are offended. If you guys really don't want the Prime Minister to be involved in another organization other than the legal organisation of the state, you don't give that kind of bill, you don't give the authority. I'm a member of the Republican People's Party. If the Republican People's Party were in power, if the President of the Republican People's Party were Prime Minister, I would not be able to say yes to a law that gave him that authority, as a lawyer, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, dear lawmakers, now, I'd like to ask the Minister: Mr. Secretary, what is really going on in Turkey? I asked you that at the Commission, and you didn't answer. Who rules Turkey? Look, who gave you the intel in Uludere? The Joint Chiefs have made a statement: we received intelligence and evaluated this intelligence, and we operated accordingly. MIT made a statement: We did not provide intelligence. Mr. Secretary, my friends, assuming that the MIT didn't give us any intelligence, who gave us the intel on the Uludere case, or is the M.S.I.T. perverting the facts on this matter? When we look at the history of countries, when we look at our own history, we know that intelligence organizations themselves organize and manage terrorist events. Suspicions have not been resolved in Turkey that some social disasters were organised by intelligence agencies, by the CIA, by co-operation with the MIT, before September 12th, even after September 12th. There is a Gladio trial in Italy, and after the incident there, the last Prime Minister had to go out and make a statement about the incident being carried out by the Italian intelligence organization. Now, I'm asking Mr. Secretary, who is running Turkey? So far, how many of the events that we know are done by the KCK or other organizations, at least how many of those we think were done by the MIT or by illegal organisations? The minister has to come out and explain. The minister said that if the crime is not committed, if it is not infiltrated, there is no such thing. Friends, does the MIT have a duty to tear apart the integrity of the country with its nation, its country? The mission of the MIT is written in the law. I'm asking again, Mr. Secretary, a thousand of those who have been captured are said to be members of the MIT. Guys, it's so bad. So a thousand of the people caught in the KCK operation say that they are members of the MIT. So it's become a subsidiary of the ACK MIT? How many MIT members are present on the executive board of the ACK? Or how many of the district officials are members of the MIT, Mr. Secretary? You're gonna have to come out and explain this. You are a government in this power, in particular in the process of silence, who advocates the claim to question the practices committed in the Ergenekon case, for a number of illegal laws and orders. Now, are you aware that by giving the Prime Minister such unlimited, uncertain powers, what is unknown, you will create a new illegal organization, start new political killings left unsolved in Turkey? So what the Prime Minister once said was that for the government and for the government, the eating is honor. Do you want to start the period? Guys, this is a law proposal that is unique to a concrete event that is being investigated. So it's more than personal, it's specific, it's specific, it's specific to a concrete event. So it's intended to save certain people from the hands of the investigation...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0080par0046	Please make up your mind.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0079par0047	...is intended to eliminate the investigation. That's how many of the majority in the legislature ignores the judiciary by forcing the number of fingers. Therefore, in particular, it violates the 138th Article of the Constitution. If you're really defending democracy in this country, if you're defending law, then there's only one job to do, to remove special authority courts, to put an end to vulgar, rude, lawless practices, to allow everyone and everyone to be investigated and cleared in normal court. Now, I'd like to finish by asking the AKP Group. "O AKP Group, there are such serious accusations against the MIT, which have been reported in the newspapers. In the face of these serious accusations, you can cover up the investigation against them with the law you've passed here, but how are you going to destroy the belief that those people committed crimes on the public conscience? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't think the MIT should allow it either. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0081par0053	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Adana MP Murat Bozlak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Grizzly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0082par0057	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the generality of Law Proposal No. 164. I hereby salute the General Assembly. How do we rescue the Undersecretary and his friends from the investigation launched on the basis of Article 250 of the Criminal Law on the Undersecretary of the Special Prosecutor's Office of Istanbul? Because Mr. Prosecutor did not see the 26th article as an obstacle, he began this investigation, thinking that Article 250 of the Penal Code gave him the opportunity. Now, dear friends, I'd like to first underline a point. Our AKP MP friends are also offering laws, and our parliamentary friends from the opposition party are offering law proposals. However, the law proposals made by our AKP MP friends are first accepted by Parliament Speaker, then by the Presidents of the Constitutional Commission at jet speed, and then down to General Assembly after the necessary talks have been held. It became so that we are now faced with a special law-making situation in every concrete case -- the AKP. This overturns the law-making technique at jet speed, eliminates the fact that lawmakers make a proper assessment of their proposals, and, of course, by the result, the laws that are incompatible with the law technique, which are incompatible with the principles of the legal state, unfortunately, our Parliament is taking them out and putting them into effect. This situation -- our friends just mentioned -- is turning this parliament out of the Parliament of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey into the AKP parliament. However, there are other political parties besides the AKP. Why are the proposals of those political parties not implemented on time by the Speakers of Parliament and not brought to the agenda of Parliament, the General Assembly? As a matter of fact, I still don't understand this inequality. Again, the ruling party is trying to overcome every challenge by enforcing a law based on its numerical majority. You know, Mr. Deniz Baykal, about the Mehmet Haberal incident, went and met with Mr. Prime Minister, said Mehmet Haberal's mother was disturbed, and asked that she be allowed to see her mother for the last time. Mr. Prime Minister said OK. But they're back. How will that be possible? Is there a law? There's no law. Then do it. They said, "Let's do it." A bill has been proposed on the order, and commissions have been discussed, and is now on the agenda of the General Assembly. Also, Mr. Minister of Justice came out, and he said: "We have been in isolation with the Imran for six months. This lockdown has no legal basis. I'm in trouble, how are we going to get the legal basis for this? Then do it for isolation. If there's no law, do it. They said, "Let's do it." We also encountered the same thing in the Strict Law. When a law was passed three months ago in the Antiquities Act, a law imposed on the bosses, they returned, they returned, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, they came, and they came, and the punishments prescribed in this law are too high, so please change it. What are we going to do? The law must be made about it. Again, no law, no law, do it. Do you know what this is, dear friends? It's the law, the law. The logic of impulse is the logic of Terakki. This logic has brought nothing to Turkey, but Turkey has harmed it. If this country hasn't been democratized, if it hasn't completed the process of democratisation, that's the logic inside. Again, technically, I'd like to address some of the shortcomings of the law. It can't be arranged, it's ordered by the law. That's the general rule of criminal reasoning, but unfortunately, we're always making individual laws in this Parliament, just like the law that comes today. And that's a special law for three or four people. We take it out for the people, and then we generalize it; it doesn't matter, it's what we thought at the beginning. Are we bringing this law as a general and objective law, or is it private, and this law is extremely disabled in that sense. Another flaw may contradict the general law and the private law. The 2937 MIT Law is a special law. Article 250 of the Penal Code is a general law. If there is a discrepancy between the general law and the private law, there is a special law here, but the lawmaker has no right to deliberately create contradictions between the general law and the private law, knowingly. This is abuse of duty. We're doing it wrong, we're not acting on the mission we've been given. We're making a special law, knowingly, to overcome the general law, to overcome the general law. Again, from a legal point of view. Again, our friends at the Justice Commission have also expressed this proposal, which is indeed in violation of Article 283 of the Turkish Penal Code. Article 283 of the Turkish Penal Code states that those who seek to protect those who have been investigated in an investigation that has begun will be punished as much as this. Now, my friends told me, they were going to punish you, but now they're probably going to punish all of us, so they're going to punish everyone who raises their hand for accepting it. I'll tell you right now, I don't accept that law. Again, dear friends, according to the Constitution, this is a violation of the Constitution. According to our constitution, there can be no discussion in Parliament due to the cases that have already begun. We are now making these negotiations, unfortunately. Another important thing: once again, friends have stated that the Prime Minister is actually given special authority by the proposal of the law, which I'm not saying is not my language -- that he's going to start a gang, but it's an arrangement that can lead to that. You, my fellow AKP MP, know the Prime Minister well. You can say, "We trust him, he doesn't form a gang, he doesn't make a mistake." But we're in a mortal world, we're in a mortal world, we're all going to die tomorrow. God bless him, if the Prime Minister dies, won't someone else replace him? Is this country going to be without Prime Minister? What happens if tomorrow, when such a situation occurs, the founder of the bullet is blessed for the government, and the one taking the bullet is for us. What happens if it falls into the hands of the prime minister? What can't be done with this law? He's really very upset about that, too. And in that sense, I feel that the law should not be passed, it should be rejected. Now, dear friends, they often say that this is the conflict of MIT-SECTION, that's the main reason. Whether it's the MIT-SECT conflict, or the conflict between groups that support the AKP and AKP, it doesn't matter. A status quo has been created in this country since the founding of the republic. There's an official government ideology around this status quo. This is the status quo that has been established in this country from the founding of the republic to protect and protect the official state ideology; its sovereign courts are immediately established in the republic, followed by the courts in Yassıada, behind its martial law courts, against the state security courts. The state security courts have been transformed by the European countries into heavy criminal courts with a change of name by the AKP, when it is said that there is no such thing in the process of the European Union. Now, dear friends, what has these courts ever brought into this country, have they contributed to the welfare of society? Who can say that? Can anyone say it helped our democracy? Could it be that the judiciary has given independence to these political courts? These courts are political courts, and their job is to hold anyone who opposes the status quo and opposes the official state ideology on their hands. Look at the past, what they've done to the Supreme Court. He has taken the head of Sheikh Said, and has ordered the execution of Seyit Reza. Again, these courts have written the death warrant for Adnan Menderes and his friends. It's these courts that have written the death warrant of their friends and Sea Travel. Here are the courts, the courts, the competent courts, and now arresting the MPs of this Parliament, claiming that despite public support, you have the authority to keep them in prison despite the will of the people. Now, what needs to be done is not to go around the edges, but to go to the core, and that's to remove the courts. Let us all remove the 250th article of the Penal Code, the 251st article, and the 252nd article of the Law, and let the land rest in peace. As long as we don't do this, this country faces such challenges all the time. Now, today we went with Mr. Hasip Kaplan and our friends to file a petition to the Ankara Special Prosecutor's Office. There, the KESK executives expressed themselves in the State's Attorney's Office. KESK executives, aren't these officers? The top executives of KESK are all civil servants. No one's saying anything, especially from Parliament, the ruling party, maybe you didn't even know about it. Well, they're being tried. Let's put them on leave. They're officers, and they're senior officials. Is there anyone who says that? No, I don't. We don't say, but the Attorney General in Istanbul is making a decision for the top bureaucrats, opening an investigation, the ruling party, on the one hand -- I don't really understand why they're opposed -- one of the main opposition parties is arguing together, and one of them is saying, "Let's do this, let's do this," and they're going into a study and effort. What is it, what is it? Now the main opposition party says, "How do you go to the office of the Undersecretary of MIT or MIT officials to go to peace, to go to the brotherhood, to negotiate in Oslo, to the Imranians?" So what do we do if we don't make these calls? What's he gonna do? Should we continue with the tried methods so far?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0083par0076	Kill him, kill him!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0082par0077	Should we kill him?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0083par0078	Yes, yes!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0082par0079	Dear friends, we now return to the ruling party. The ruling party also thinks: "You can't judge my bureaucrat. " This is understanding now: he can't judge my bureaucrat. We can never solve the problems of this country in this way. Dear friends are now the Kurdish problem at the bottom of all these problems. Mr. Sırrı Sakık spoke before me. Indeed, we cannot resolve this issue by means of the 90s. We can't solve this problem by bringing people who are stepping up to the gates of the courts and getting them to judge. This is the main problem of this country. The children of the people who live in this country are dying right now. He's got Kurdish children, Turkish children, Arab children, Laz children. Young people who also died in the guerrilla are citizens of this country, and they are the children of the Kurds. How long are we going to continue this conflict process? Aren't we going to try to resolve this peacefully? Are we to imitate the Prime Minister of the '90s, and imitate those governments? Where are the governments? Had those governments done the right thing, they would have survived today. Look, you can't read the name of the political party that was fighting violence at the time, does it? They inherited the entire Democratic Party. Then the Justice Party became DYP, and because of that logic, they ended up with their lack of solutions to the Kurdish problem. These people have given you a mission as AKP. Don't suppose this people didn't vote for you every day so that you could lift the planes from Diyarbakır to Kandil. I'm especially telling my friends of the Diyarbakır MP, go and ask them in Diyarbakır if we could lift a plane from here every day, if we told you we would lift it, would you vote for us? Ask them, no one will accept it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0084par0081	What did they say there, when they asked for votes in Diyarbakir?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0082par0082	They defended peace, they defended peace, they defended brotherhood, and that's the right defense, and that's the way it's supposed to be. Dear friends of the AKP, I specifically say that violence is not the solution, but you cannot resolve the Kurdish issue with violence. The government brought in a Kurdish politician who had been here for many years before in Europe, 30 years, 40 years ago, especially with a special effort to get him to listen to the Human Rights Review Commission, and he made him say, "The PKK is a state organization. Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has formed the MIT. It is now said: "There are a thousand members of the MIT inside the KCK. Oh, my God! These are all our friends, five of them our friends, five of them our congressman, the others our mayors, our mayors, our city general council members, our city council members, and the senior executives of our party. Now, if a thousand MIT employees are here, please take it out, expose it, and we'll know who they are. We walk with them, we work, we say, these are our friends, this is a smear campaign, but the Kurdish people will never believe in this smear campaign, they won't get you a point. Now, last but not least, as AKP, you are literally a power force, the state-run CHP of the 1930s. Do not make the mistake of the CHP and choose what is right. Choose what's right, clear the way for peace. As our friends say, let's not take this through the bureaucrats, let the House personally seize it, let's take the rational people who are sensitive to it with us, and let's stop this problem, this blood of brothers, together, together. This is the historic duty of this House. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0085par0087	Thank you, Mr. Grizzly. Izmir MP Oktay Vural on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0086par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I salute you, Mr. President, with the honors of the High Council and its esteemed deputies. In fact, what we're talking about today is that we're discussing a special, special, special, special proposal by the name of the person who actually submitted the motion against the Constitution. Our whole nation knows clearly for what purpose, for whom it was given, for which illegal acts were given to camouflage. In that regard, the Prime Minister was given... Which is why, again, I'm asking the Lord Prime Minister for a cure for his surgery, I really am. But Sultan Süleyman, who has just been read by Özcan Yeniçeri, Sultan Süleyman of the Law, has a saying that there is no peaceful object in the public like the state. In fact, what we're discussing today is a process in which the state, which we call the state, should be a viable object for the public, is driven out of agreement. Really, today's discussion is sort of a turn-up sheet. It is crucial that the processes that bring this argument, the goals intended by this proposal of the law, the desires to be done, the fact that it is the direct truth that there is no sovereign state for the people and that today, all of us together, together in this House, show how it corrupts and ignores the values that we have sworn on our honor and honor. In that sense, the words, the actions must be followed in a sequence, and what I see at this point is really very important -- yet today, my dear friends, in the name of the AKP Group, and in the case of a motion to investigate torture, illegal acts for the government -- and today, when we consider the purposes of the law proposal that I hope to evaluate with your consciences, it shows how much contradictions have been made. See, Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı speaking on behalf of the AKP says that if the political authority in a country is a decree of self-proclaimed legitimacy, there is torture, torture. In a place where there is bureaucratic custody, public consent, transparency of what has been done, relations between public authority and the people are not clear, clear and transparent. Who are you, show your identity, what do you represent, and why do you do such a thing? He will no longer have a say. Look, Mr. Suat Kılıç speaking on behalf of the AKP says: "Is it important that some public officials, in the event that they go outside the law when they're using the state authority they've taken from the law -- so you, Council of Ministers -- are these human rights violations protecting the examples of torture or abuse, leading to the law?" Now, the Suat Sword says today: if there are violations of the law, if they are not brought before the law, there is torture, torture. Here, at this point, where we come today, in fact, if the administration brings them to justice, if the judge brings them to justice, if he brings them to justice, if he asks for his account, then there is a conscious, stable good will and legal position. So, since you haven't removed it, you're putting it in your own words that your good-willed posture is not stable. Let no soul be tested by what it says. Those who have just spoken on behalf of the government, speak on behalf of the AKP Group, talk about bureaucratic custody, talk about commitment to the law, talk about bringing the violations of the law to justice today, want to dismiss their violations from the agenda of the judiciary. There's no need to say too much. Therefore, your statements, the legal state, the statements of democracy, we are against the attack. It shows that your expressions are essentially empty. Now, we're talking about a case. In fact, when we talk about something like this, what processes brought us here, we need to analyze them. Dear lawmakers, we're speaking as opposition parties here, but we're all responsible for this nation. We all have to serve under the Constitution. We all promised the rule of law honor and honor. Therefore, I submit to the conscience of lawmakers here, in a place where your Turkish nation's conscience is first expressed, our talks and our talks, your decisions. Today, it is our duty to do this accounting of conscience against the nation we are responsible for, against whom we are responsible, and against the state we are responsible for. In that respect, I'd like to consider the assessments here as a ruling-Muslim assessment, and say that the assessment in this framework does not exactly fit in as a member of parliament. Look, let's take a good look at the processes we're talking about here. My dear friends, the processes that brought this process into this process have not actually been successful in the fight against terrorism in Turkey, we need to find a political solution. There has been a process in which a number of guidelines, internal and external guidelines can lead to the redefined state of Turkey and its nation, and there has been a process in which the terrorist organization can be stepped in line with the demands of such a political solution. Look, when we came to talk about these issues, when we made statements about the negotiations, you rejected them, but then it turned out that negotiations were being held, but you refused in public. After the negotiations were held, the state would meet, the government would not negotiate. You said, "We had no idea of the oslo talks." He said, "It turned out that this was not an interview on the state floor." Ahmet Davutoglu said that the address was the government. You sleep with the blind, you wake up cross-eyed. Some of your guides even said: "We will meet with the Devil." After all, those who have even spoken to Satan have entered into relationships that ignore what the state of the Republic of Turkey calls official ideology, but are fundamentally based on the issues of this state and the nation, identity, integrity. So, in fact, behind the scenes of what we discussed today, there was this misdiagnosed, and as a result of this misdiagnosed, there was such a negotiation process; you refused. His records are out, sir, these are other people's inventions. You said so. As you walked through the snow, you showed that your tracks would be undetectable, and as a result of all this talks with the devil, protocols of contact with the devil began to reflect. There are protocols. The Prime Minister said: "No, there are no such protocols." Now we're seeing, we're looking at protocols within the TK investigation. There are referee states, and all of these processes are actually my dear friends, with a claim, that's what they are. Who will determine whether these claims are true or not? Now, in such a process, my dear friends, with the MIT, or rather the delegation referred to as the special representative of the prime minister, there are many allegations such as the introduction of Turkey into the Constitution, the introduction of Kurdish into the Constitution as a second language, the adoption of three protocols under the name Democratic Resolving Principles. Are these claims true or not? My dear friends, who is it that should question such claims, illegal, unconstitutional claims, if they are true? Now, Mr. Minister here says: no crime, no duty. Is it the government's duty to negotiate the unity and integrity of this nation with a terrorist organization? See, these are the main objectives and tasks of the state. It says to maintain the integrity of the Turkish nation, the indivisibility of the country. Now, in a process like this, you get up and you don't have a crime, you have a duty. If you justify a number of illegal, unconstitutional acts, then the state itself puts dynamite at the bottom of it. In this regard, the implications of these relationships are grave. A public official is said to have entered the police station with a bomb on his back in Diyarbakır. There are allegations about a member of the ACK who threw a Molotov cocktail at the city bus. Now, when you look at all of this, the fact that you accept these grave claims directly as a crime over the state, actually, means that you ignore the state. Given this aspect, it has become clear and clear that the PKK had established the state, and that those who had made some statements on this stand concerning the state's relationship with some of its units, were, in fact, doing so in order to cover up their relationship with the TK (KCK) and the PKK (PKK). So, at this point that we're here today, to ensure democratic autonomy status... For God's sake, if the political will is behind them, let it out, say with courage: Yes, I wanted autonomy, autonomy, the establishment of the autonomous Kurdistan, and Kurdish to become official language. That's my political opinion. Let him say it. Why are you getting the government involved in this? Why are you making politics out of government officials? In that sense, at this point that we're here today, there's a belief that there have been talks with a terrorist organization in contrary to the basic qualities of our state, that there's been illegal negotiations, that there's not enough of that, but there's been some kind of relationship involving the establishment of a terrorist organization. If you cover it up with this law, the government will be charged. In that regard, the value we need to protect today is to strengthen the opinion that there is a stable state in the public opinion that the state cannot engage in illegal activities. What you do is to be questioned and investigated in terms of government, as well as in the foundations of this state and in terms of the Constitution. Other than that, there are coup plans in Turkey -- you have made many statements. Here's the thing. It's got to be investigated. Everyone must answer. You said, e, we say. If the plans have been prepared, let him answer with the PKK, if there is a plan for the unity and integrity of this nation together. Why are we running away from this? Who are you kidnapping? In that regard, at this point where we are here today, some high-ranking public officials are being held accountable, and those who find it legitimate in the name of democracy are missing from the law, unfortunately at this point that we are here today, following instructions given to their own public officials. Where is the rule of law, my dear friends? We made a law. It says that the MIT Law is tasked with protecting the integrity of the state of the Constitution, the integrity of the country, beyond which there is no duty. Other than that, if the task is within the scope of this mission, it is evidence that the government has given instructions to public officials outside of this mission. That's where the bond is established. If you haven't really given a directive for Turkey's integrity, if you're not looking for such a law, why is this protection and protection? He is already subject to the Prime Minister's permission because of his duties in Article 26. Well, then, you must have given some of the government's officers political duties. As part of this political mission, you have negotiated Turkey's unity and integrity under the referee state, my dear friends, under the referee state, protocols have been set up, and instead of the PKK, you have opened the way for the construction of a parallel state, such as the KCK. It was founded in 2005, and you opened its way until 2009. Which is what Ocalan called the third stage: the legal steps of democratization will not be the basis for re-enactment. The PKK will also become political with the legalisation of TK activities. This equation you entered was the equation of politicisation of PKK. You allowed the ACK to plan to find a political solution, you applied parallel state applications, but the great Turkish nation realized this game. The National Movement Party has deciphered these policies. If you really had an opportunity to step forward in accordance with your instructions regarding these policies, you would have brought these protocols to the House. But we, the National Movement Party, saw this game, we deciphered it. When we decrypted, our citizens who voted for the AKP were reacting to this dirty, dirty bargain that the majority of our citizens rejected, and you had to make a U-turn when the response was made. Well, that's the gist of it. At that time, the government must explain: If Bekir Bozdağ is saying that there is a Vaazife. Explain in heart what date, for what purpose, for what purpose, for whom you have given it. Look, I'm here to make you a clear offer: if the government has orders to hold these negotiations, which you say exists with this action, let's have a closed session, let's find out. For what purpose did you send these officers there, who instructed these people, and for what purpose, explain them in closed session? There is no need to hide behind such vague laws, but say with courage: "We have given instructions, we have instructed the public officials. Why do you throw them into the fire? Are they threatening me? If we go in front of the judge, we'll tell them who ordered us.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0087par0120	Please make your commitments, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0086par0121	Thank you. So today's law is actually a process that shows the traps set in front of our government and our nation. It is time to demonstrate that the rule of law, the legal state, is a Grand National Assembly of Turkey with high values, such as the state's dependency on law. Let's all say no to bureaucratic oligarchy, together -- we swore to the rule of law, we swore to the state of law -- let's say no to bureaucratic oligarchy. Let's all defend the law together, in case political parties are being watched, heard, and listened to, against those who take the power of the state and the public official and try to set us up. In that regard, I appeal to your consciences today, and I urge you to say no to this bill. I'm also asking the government and the AKP Group to immediately withdraw this law proposal as the National Movement Party. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0088par0125	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Isparta MP Recep Special on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0129	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTI Group on behalf of the highly valued lawmakers, State Intelligence Services 164 rows, and the Proposal to Change the National Intelligence Service Act. I salute you all. The National Intelligence Agency was founded on July 6, 1965, and on the basis of the National Intelligence Service Act 644, and on the basis of the Prime Ministerate. This law, which has been in effect for more than 18 years, has been replaced by the State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Service Act, which is currently in effect on January 1, 1984, as a result of the work that has been done to address the setbacks in the implementation and to make them in line with changing world conditions. In Act 2937, the foundation and its main tasks are laid down in general, and other issues related to internal organisation have been allowed to act quickly, both under confidentiality and under changing circumstances, leaving secret regulations that the Prime Minister would approve. Another feature that separates Law 2937 from Law 644 is that it is directly linked to the Prime Minister by Law 2937. Under the constitution, the MIT is directly linked to the Prime Minister, along with the Council of Ministers, in view that the Prime Minister is responsible for the implementation of the government's general policy. The National Intelligence Service is to create national security intelligence on the country and nation of the Republic of Turkey, its integrity, its presence, its independence, its security, its constitutional order and all its external elements, and its possible activities across the state, and to deliver this intelligence to the institutions needed by the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff, the Secretary of the National Security. In drafting and conducting plans for national security policy of the state, the OSCE is tasked with countering intelligence activities involving the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of Staff, the Secretary General of the National Security Council. The National Intelligence Agency cannot be tasked beyond these duties, and this agency cannot be directed to other services other than intelligence services related to the security of the state. Under the 7th Article of the MIT Law, the Undersecretary of the MIT shall be held accountable to the Prime Minister for the fulfilment of his duties stated in the MIT Law, and he shall not be held accountable to any person or authority other than the Prime Minister. What do we intend to do with this proposal, which has been accepted by the Justice Commission, and which we are now negotiating by bringing it to the agenda of the High Assembly, and I want to make this brief statement? In fact, such a legal arrangement is not necessary, but the aim is to bring such an arrangement on the agenda of parliament and to prevent wrong interpretations and practices in progressing events and practices. Article 26 of the MIT Law states that the Prime Minister's permission for the criminal prosecution of members of the MIT is present. This is not a new situation. Article 2 of the MIT Law, under the heading of the definitions, is the distinction between MIT personnel and members of the MIT. The officers, who were part of the MIT staff when they were referred to as MIT personnel, represent those who were assigned to the MIT in the Turkish Armed Forces, those who were employed in the OSCE. Even if it is referred to as, there are MIT personnel and other officials in charge of carrying out the duties given by this law or by this law. This includes those who have been assigned to the mission and activities of the MIT, referred to by the other officers. The 26th article of the MIT Law includes the birthing of the law, which does not apply in other laws or regulations. The Bureau of Investigation is a member of the MIT that I mentioned, and has been acting against the true will of the legislator, who has not been granted permission in an investigation that he should have made very narrow interpretation of his mandate. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare this bill and put an end to the errors of interpretation and practice.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0090par0140	So you're the only one who saw this?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0141	It's legal, it's about security. Currently present, the investigation is subject to the Prime Minister's permission, not only to the 26th Amendment of the MIT Law, which is now in effect, but to investigate for all members of the MSCE due to the nature of the mission or alleged to have committed the mission. Since 1983, no one has contested this for nearly 30 years, and no one has found it illegal. Now, when it comes to the Prime Minister's permission, where does this come from, such as the authority, which does not fit into the legal logic, and so far ignores the practices of the law, being cruelly, relentlessly criticised? That's already been authorized. Turkey also has a law on the trial of officers 4483 and other public officials. This Law was established in 1999 during the reign of Anasol-M and is still in effect. An investigation into the alleged crime against a deed officer in a district depends on the permission of the governor-in-law. According to this Law, it is up to the minister's permission to investigate prosecutors about high bureaucrats of the ministries. Mr. President, under Article 3 of Law 4483, it is up to the Prime Minister to open an investigation into the Undersecretary of the Council of Ministers, the Chief of Staff, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other public officials, under the 3rd Amendment of Law 4483. The late Ecevit served as Prime Minister with this authority. Our Prime Minister, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with that authority... was already in Law 4483 until 2009, and no one complained.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0091par0145	That's what Veysi Source said, but he was never elected again.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0146	In 2009, special prosecutors were authorized to open absolute investigations under the Penal Code, so the permit in Article 4483 was restricted to senior bureaucrats in Article 3 (e) joke, but no changes were made to the 26th article of the MIT Law, and all kinds of investigations and permits have been carried out for members of the MIT. It is not possible for the ruling body to question its anti-terrorism policy and its preferences in democratic law state and countries adopted the principle of dissolution of powers. This is a very sensitive subject we're talking about. The prevention of many actions is due to intelligence studies.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0092par0148	You're the only one who's ever thought of all this?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0149	The task of gathering intelligence is a very important and very sensitive mission. With that dignity, it would do great harm to accuse the people who did this with their lives of cooperating with the organization.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0093par0150	We don't.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0151	I'm afraid there's a price to pay for the lives they've been exposed to.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0093par0152	Who's blaming you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0094par0153	He was good at blaming the Chief of Staff.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0154	In this regard, it is a matter to be very careful about.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0095par0155	Where were you when you accused the Chief of Staff?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0156	There should be no damage to the intelligence collection mission in the fight against terrorism. These people work for our country and our country with great sacrifice.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0096par0157	Did you just wake up?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0158	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, preventing the wrong implementation of the appliances available and brought in by this arrangement... this arrangement that corrects the errors of interpretation is not a new institution in our legal system... that has been issued as a prerequisite for criminal prosecution and investigation... before starting a criminal investigation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0096par0159	What were you thinking for three years?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0160	People written in the special law, lawyers, notaries, and individuals involved in the alleged criminal investigation of all public personnel duties, the processing institution is already available in each of them.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0097par0161	Who prepared this text for you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0162	As with every permit situation, the permit for this arrangement is also open to judicial supervision.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0098par0163	Don't read it, don't read it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0164	A protection is not an immunity suit that is completely removed from judicial control. The Prime Minister's permission procedure is an administrative procedure, and with the Constitution, we are entitled to our laws...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0099par0165	TV's on, TV's on. People are watching. Speak up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0166	...as well as any administrative procedure, which is subject to administrative judicial supervision, clear. The Prime Minister will allow it or not...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0099par0167	You're not on the committee. You're on the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0100par0168	Who's controlling it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0169	Either way, it's open to administrative jurisdiction.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0099par0170	He's still giving me TRT.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0171	If he does not allow it, the person involved will take this administrative action to the administrative judiciary and will always have the right to object.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0101par0172	Show me the minister like that!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0102par0173	No, no...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0174	Therefore, there is no rule of law. The claim is, as it turns out, a claim without foundation, not to reflect the truth. Once again, I'm stressing here. The legal control path is wide open in the arrangement that is still available and now we've made it even more clear.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0103par0175	Why don't you make it clear about the Chief of Staff?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0176	There's absolutely no legal suit, no judicial kidnapping, and no one's being brought here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0104par0177	Between the Prime Minister's two lips...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0178	It's not the first time we've brought a warrant here for crimes involving special authorities, courts, and special prosecutors. For example, the Minister of Justice's permission is required to launch an investigation into crimes involving these special court and special prosecutors in the 301st and 306°th Article of the existing Turkish Penal Code.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0104par0179	You also released the insult to Turkishness.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0180	When a normal citizen commits a crime involving these substances, the Minister of Justice will be in charge of it. Prosecutors under heavy criminal authority, we will run a permit operation on this, but we will not include those who need to perform certain tasks, who need to be protected by their duties, on a permit. To understand this, there is no way to accept it the way you evaluate it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0105par0181	It's running a gang in the government!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0182	Mr. President, the most critical issue of this proposal is an open posting by the Prime Minister. This law is the concern of those who have been appointed under the MIT Law. But in order to avoid misunderstandings and debates, we are now ending the debates by the Prime Minister, who has been assigned by the public officials to perform a specific task.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0105par0183	You can't do that either! You can't do that either!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0184	When the executive organ does something wrong, it'll fix it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0105par0185	The law gives the job.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0186	At least we're doing an injustice to the political institution, the legislature. Politicians always answer on every platform in this country. Those who criticize us in this country in this sense, let them trust the Prime Minister as much as they trust the members of the judiciary, and the Prime Minister of this country will never compromise the criminal organizations. [[Noises in CHP and MHP rows]] This arrangement is an arrangement by opposition to the public, private to the individual and address, and its claims are not true.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0105par0189	Explain the gangs, the gangs... the gangs you've assigned.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0106par0190	Listen up, guys.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0089par0191	Mr. President, are you going to interfere with this or should I?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0107par0192	Go ahead, Mr. Special, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0108par0193	Explain who's behind the unsubs.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0109par0194	This is the state of law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0107par0195	Congressmans, please listen carefully. Go ahead, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0197	This arrangement is a special arrangement by the opposition and a surrender to an address that is not true. Because in order for an arrangement to be unique to one person, it must be applied only to that person and then no longer be able to implement it. However, under the MIT Law, a prior investigation into all relevant MIT members will be carried out in investigations, prosecutions, and any further prosecutions. This also shows that the arrangement is not a personal and address arrangement.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0111par0198	And we believed it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0199	Many changes have been made here in the Turkish Penal Code and the penal laws. The recently lifted prison sentence in the Czech Law has recently been adopted and legalized in this Parliament. There were tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of cases going on during all these arrangements. Nobody said you interfered with these cases, interfered with the judicial process. Of course, any change in criminal legislation will have an impact on the foreseeable or unpredictable cases. It means no, it's synonymous with "let the law not do its duty." Of course, legislation will reveal its own will.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0112par0200	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0201	In the last ten years, it's also clear how gangs, mafia, and criminal organizations have been fought. All dark scenarios have been uncovered.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0113par0202	By meeting, by negotiating.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0203	It's been resolved, and it'll continue to go. No illegal activity is covered up, it won't be covered up. In view of all of this, they will form new gangs, and we can only say that Turkey is no longer the former Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0114par0205	Sure, sure... you're legitimizing the gang in the new Turkey.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0206	In Turkey, those waiting for a continent ready for all these efforts and attacks against our government and our party, in the face of the judicial-MIT conflict, all those who are constantly tasked with susing and polluting the Ergenekon case are re-employing with this proposal from their positions of law. No one should be involved in these recent events by politics, by politics through convincing pink concepts, such as transparency, exoneration, the state of law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0115par0207	Teacher, after Veysi, you're history too.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0208	The OSCE Law states the nature of any other law that has not been passed -- the 26th article that is now in effect -- is the definition of the nature of the law. Therefore, the Penal Code is outside the scope of Article 250 and 251. Therefore, there can be no investigation of members of the MIT without the Prime Minister's permission. So, what do we do when it's like this, why do we bring in this law? We're compiling what's written in the law in bigger letters, in thick lines, and in a language that everyone, all the practitioners and parties will understand.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0116par0210	So that you can negotiate more freely with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). You make these negotiations public now.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0211	The Penal Code, which is in effect, was adopted in June 2005, and the MIT Law was adopted in 1983. Under Article 251 of the Penal Code, the prosecutors investigate crimes involving Article 250. The 26th article of the MIT Law is subject to the permission of the Prime Minister to investigate members of the MIT. The prosecutor's office says there's no need for permission because the Law on Criminal Law is the new law. Against that, they ignore the MIT Law because it is a special law and the 26th article must be applied. Yes, the Penal Code is in effect in June 2005, and in parallel with the regulations in the field of criminal law, many harmonies have been passed in this parliament and has also entered into force. The amendments to Law 5397 and the MIT Law have been made. If this had been a lawmaker's will that the Prime Minister's permission of the MIT Law was not necessary, the laws of harmony would have taken necessary steps and made arrangements in this area as harmonisation changes were mentioned in the MIT Law. Mr. President, it is clear, my fellow lawmakers, that the law on listening in the part of the MIT Law has not been violated by the Articles 250 and 251 of the Law on Criminal Law, while the investigation in Article 26 of the MIT Law has been subject to the Prime Minister's permission. Law 5651 of the MIT Law has been changed again in 2007 and the matter of permission has not been touched again. From here, the Articles 250 and 251 of the Penal Code lacks the thesis and the argument that the Article 26 is the next law. The prosecution cannot investigate without the Prime Minister's permission. From another point of view, the sixth joke of the 6th Article of the MIT Law under the law of harmony says: ▪ The records obtained under the rules of this joke cannot be used except for the purposes specified in this law. The principle of secrecy applies to the preservation and preservation of information and records available. Those who act contrary to the provisions of this clause are being investigated directly by the prosecutors of the Republic, even if they were committed during the mission or because of the mission.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0117par0215	Mr. Recep, read the last joke of the 4th article.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0216	In 2005, the 26th amendment has not been changed, so the legislation here, Parliamentary will, has once again confirmed that the permit is covered in all crimes. Another important point is that the institution's armed forces, the police and the intelligence institutions, have a different quality of employment. As a rule, it's an institution that has to have people in its criminal organizations. This is probably why it is included in Article 26 of the MIT Law in any other institution and in any legal arrangement. The Articles 250 and 251 of the Penal Code does not cover it. This separate and different expression in the MIT Law makes it a special rule against the Penal Code and proves that the Prime Minister's permission requirements continue. However, it was an open violation of the law and the rule of law to start investigating these matters without permission. The wrong application will be corrected by this arrangement.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0118par0220	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0110par0221	In this country, no one can build a brotherhood of ideal unity, not profit. We will continue to act in brotherhood, intimacy, and common wisdom. Those who make a mistake or abuse them will pay for it in a forensic hymn. I salute you all, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0118par0224	Thank you, Mr. Special. On behalf of him, Yalova MP Muharrem İnce. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0119par0228	Thank you. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you. Now, it's a matter of a law, actually, not three articles, but one clause: execution, execution, execution. When a clause comes to the commission, you will add a temporary clause, and when it comes to the General Assembly, you will now try to replace it with motions. A government, a ruling party, a party with 326 MPs, could it be that clumsy? I don't think so, I don't think they're incompetent. I think they're in a hurry, they're in a hurry. That's how a nervous substance can make a mistake, even in a law. There's a crime, they want to save someone. We're on the tip of this, they call it. That's as clear as it gets. Let me sum it up for you, the summation of this law is two sentences: ▪ Taking out the Muhali, cleaning up the party. That's what this is about. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, immunity to special officials. Who are these special officers? A Turkish citizen? It's unclear. Public servant? It's unclear. You passed a law in 2005 about the police, the gendarmes, listening to intelligence. The Constitutional Court called it off. You wrote: "It is done by the person or commission that the Prime Minister will personally authorize. " The Constitutional Court unanimously rejected it. Even Mr. Hashim Sword was unanimous, he voted for it. What happened today is that you are... against the state of law. He said the Constitutional Court, now that we see, we will see, your Constitutional understanding, your President's appreciation, your discretion, all of it. I mean, you don't have to finish law school. A few-and-a-half, a member of parliament over there, sees that this is contrary to the Constitution's 2/5th Article, the rule of law; the Constitution sees that Article 10 (the article 10) is contrary to the principle of equivalence; Article 128 (the Court of Law) cannot be questioned, it cannot be questioned, it can't be questioned, it can't be questioned, it can't be questioned, it can't be questioned, it can't be questioned, it can't be questioned, it can't be identified, it can't be stated. We had a motion for a gene, Mr. Cicek, the Speaker of the House, who didn't process our staff because it was related to a case that was being filed, so how did he do it in a hurry? We're here again. Dear friends, in democracies, the prime minister's authority is not unlimited, there is no such thing. The prime minister's authority cannot be unlimited. For one thing, the ruling that the president of the TİB would be appointed by the Prime Minister was annulled by the Constitutional Court. Look, what you do when you're stuck, I'll give you examples of your ten-year activities: the president of TBITAK is appointed by the Prime Minister for once. The president and his members of the RTÜK will be allowed to stand trial. Now, the prime minister will grant the permission to investigate the members of the MIT and the prime minister's special assignment? What does that mean? Sultan Suleiman of the Law had no such authority. What does that mean? Yalova is the AKP County President's special officer? Can the Prime Minister get us killed? Is there such a authority? So the Prime Minister must have seen the Great Century a lot, identified himself with the Law, and probably wants to make Pargalı the president of the MIT. Even Pargalı had no such authority. My dear friends, there is a passage from the understanding of the holy state to the holy ruler, to the Holy Prime Minister. Look, she said "Circles." She said, "Can a bullet be eaten by a horseman?" Once upon a time there was a holy state, and we destroyed it. You say, "You are creating a holy Prime Minister." There was another definition that you once criticized, remember? Once upon a time, I knew a chief of staff, they were good boys. When you said, "You have a page-by-page statement." What's the difference between the chief of staff who says he's a good boy and the power you gave the Prime Minister today? In the same way, the Prime Minister will say: "I know him, he's a good boy, he doesn't need permission."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0120par0238	JITEM's gone, MITEM's here, MITEM!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0119par0239	This House is no place for executives to legalize their illegal activities. In this country, everyone's security is law. But everyone in this country, unfortunately, is one person, and his trust is one person, and his fearful dream is one. Someone in this country's security is the Prime Minister, and his feared dream is the Prime Minister. The safety of his followers is the Prime Minister, and the fear of his opponents is the Prime Minister. My dear friends, look, everyone has surrendered in this country except the Republican People's Party. When a journalist is scolded, the Prime Minister immediately loses his job. A businessman he's obsessed with...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0121par0242	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0122par0243	There are others...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0123par0244	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0124par0245	I didn't mean political parties, anyone can defend themselves. I'm in no position to defend political parties, your parties. I said it in terms of political parties and other institutions, and you defend your own party.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0125par0246	That's what we'll say from now on.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0123par0247	Take it back, take it back.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0124par0248	If he scolded a journalist, he's gone; if he's obsessed with a businessman, the financiers, the tax collectors, they don't lose their heads until they bankrupt him; if he's obsessed with a bureaucrat, he doesn't stand a chance. My dear friends, what is the difference between the logic of the Kenan universe and your logic? The Kenan universe had brought in that temporary 15th article, and you boast of removing it, but this is unfortunately the temporary 15th article. Come on, they had a coup, they wanted to protect themselves, but what did you do to get behind a shield like that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll tell you something else: look, it's easy, let's say there's a plastic bill case, a minister who's accused of a plastic bill, we have a majority, a law, a plastic bill pardon, a minister who got away with it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0126par0252	Where is the minister now?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0124par0253	A bureaucrat you've brought in will pay compensation, he'll pay compensation, you'll change a law, the bureaucrat won't pay the damages, the state will. And now you're building a protection shield for the people you've assigned to commit crimes, and when the tip touches you, you go to legal regulation, you break the constitutional order, you break the separation of forces, you establish the law of the Prime Minister's surrender. My dear friends, I'm reading you Article 283 of the Turkish Penal Code. One of these days, everybody's gonna need it. I don't think anyone would believe it if they told us that someone in this country who served as Chief of Staff would go to jail. Today, the guilty will be seen, but it will not be yours, and one day you will be yours. (Applause from CHP rows) So you need TCK 283, everyone, 75 million, I'm reading that anyone who can get away with research, arrest, arrest or execution of a criminal will be sentenced from six months to five years in prison.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0127par0256	It'll be a lightweight, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0124par0257	If this crime is committed by the public official in connection with his duty, the punishment will be increased by half... I'm telling you that one day I hope you won't need it, and I'm very curious about the whereabouts of all the civil society in Turkey, the unions, the business world, in particular, the silent, non-verbal universities in Turkey, and the law schools that so far have no reaction. If this law passes in Turkey, it will create new Greens, it will create Gladio, and you will be responsible for all the unsolved murders that will take place from now on, I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0128par0260	Thank you, Mr. Tünce. Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ on behalf of the government. Here you are, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0264	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm here to present you with both our opinions and reviews of criticism on the proposed law. I hereby salute your high council. Dear MPs, the National Intelligence Agency is one of our country's most distinguished institutions. Article 4 of the institutional code explains the issues related to its mission. When we look there, the country and its country and nation of the Republic of Turkey are considered to be involved in creating national security intelligence on all existing and external activities, against its integrity, its existence, its independence, its security, its constitutional order and all its elements, and other tasks are included here. They're given very important tasks, and these are very important tasks for the country's survival, for its existence, for its independence, for its safety, for its peace, for its peace. Only in our country, there's no intelligence service, there's every country in the world, and when you look at the laws of those agencies, we see that they're similar to the law that established the Turkish Intelligence Agency and regulates its duties, but when you look at the protection stuff, we see that there are more protections and protections in those laws than there are in the Law of our Intelligence Agency today. Today, countries are not only in themselves, but in their territory, and in order to be globally strong...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0267	Oh, come on. Is it your duty to act against the terrorist organization?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0268	...inside and outside, he sees that he needs strong intel, and according to this, they're doing some evaluations themselves.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0269	You gave him autonomous Kurdistan?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0270	Turkey is a growing country. A great power in his territory today, a global actor in the world.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0271	Let them go, let them go. No crime, duty?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0272	It is natural for Turkey to have that kind of change, to have improvement, and to have a number of exceptions when arrangements are being made for those who will perform tasks for our country's safety outside. When we're arguing here, when we're considering the issues...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0274	It's all in the law. They're protected by the 26th Amendment.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0275	...I'd like to say once again that the approaches to destroy this country's distinguished institution on the grounds of some political debate are not right...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0276	Tell people the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0277	...because those who serve in this institution are serving at the expense of their lives. Now, the seriousness and danger of their duties are undisputed by all Parliament and the public.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0279	You're giving them a duty outside the law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0131par0280	How many of the MIT have been martyred?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0281	There's a great deal of importance in discussing such sensitive tasks over a certain sensitivity.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0282	You give public officials political duty, illegal duty. All this, all this talk, all this evidence.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0283	It is not the work of those who serve in this Parliament to threaten Parliament by saying, "What will happen if you do so?" Why not? For Parliament's act of legislation is a fundamental task given to it by the 7th and 87th Article of the Constitution. It's a criminal approach to parliament doing its duty.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0284	Parliament is the rule of the nation, without bureaucratic control...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0285	Sir, there's a case that's been seen, and if you edit this case, you'll influence the judiciary, you'll influence the trial, which would be a crime, and then the punishment is the law, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on. What does that mean? What does that mean? This means that you should wish that the current Parliament would not work according to the Constitutional provisions, because no Constitutional provisions can be interpreted in the way that will render any other decision. All the laws discussed in Parliament are in the courts. If you discuss this law -- the Law of Punishment -- you will have an impact on these cases. You should not discuss the penal code, but we have. If you meet the Court of Justice, you must not meet. We have met. I ask you, how many jobs or transactions have been held in Parliament that are not in the courts? When you look at it, everyone sees that these are very few.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0286	This Parliament does not allow those who will legitimize talks with the PKK, no matter what party it is from.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0287	Otherwise, there's a case, or you're setting up a subject or a clause, and there's something about it, you can't fix it. If you say, "You're going to lock the door of Parliament." However, Parliament works under all conditions, and its law enforcement is not considered a violation of the Constitution as an intervention in the judiciary, it is a constitutional mandate, and it performs its duty. It does not apply to ongoing cases. It is extraordinarily wrong to be called the Court of Appeals, as well as to the provisions made in the law of material punishment and the law of procedure, because if the basis is to have legal consequences in favor of the person, then the Supreme Court of Appeals has a decision here, and other decisions are being carried out. What did we do in the Criminal Court of Justice to delay the release of the sentence? We got him out of the House, and there was no transit warrant, and the Supreme Court did it, and the courts did it. Why? Because it's a procedure that can lead to legal consequences in the person's favor. Therefore, these provisions are not a violation of the Constitution. Well, what is it? There's an argument: general law-private law; previous law-after law. There are many arguments, and it's important to eliminate them. Parliament has passed laws on issues that are sometimes controversial, and regulations that resolve uncertainty when there are some uncertainties have passed long past this Parliament. So, is it a special arrangement? That's a lot of twists, too. When you say "personal law," I have a law, and I read: Law date 7/7/1948, number 5245. What's the name of the law? There are laws and other laws in the sending of Idil Biret and Suna Kan (Suna) to the Music Collection of Foreign Lands. The special law. That's what you call it, it's called...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0288	We sent the Prime Minister on vacation here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0289	...the number of people who would benefit from the special law, and in those numbers, there are names. When you look at it -- I've studied -- all the special laws that have been put on this island, there are a lot of examples of these, but this arrangement is a general arrangement and...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0130par0290	Holy shit! The MPs believed it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0291	...is an arrangement that will be applied to everyone and everyone in my door. Another thing, there's been a lot of debate here, a lot of opinions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0132par0294	Mr. President, we don't hear what the speaker is saying, we don't hear what he's saying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0133par0295	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0129par0296	If you say, "What is it?" he's like, "Dear lawmakers, the prosecutor thinks of the good in the country, thinks of the good in it."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0133par0297	Mr. Secretary, just a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0134par0298	At least don't raise your foot, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0133par0299	Congressmans, there's a hum in the hall, please, let's be quiet. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0301	The prosecutor thinks of the good in the country, thinks of the good in the country. And the judge? He'll think about it. Police? He'll think about it. Soldier? He'll think about it. The officer on the floor? He thinks of the interests of the country. They don't operate and operate against the country, but the country's Prime Minister does business and transactions against the country's harm, its welfare, its benefits, its interests. This Parliament is the nation's Parliament. These ideas are an expression of unintegrated understandings of democracy. You will trust the appointed ones, and you will not trust the chosen ones of the people. That's not trusting people. Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0136par0303	You don't trust the law that people do!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0304	Look, all the work the Prime Minister has done, all the decisions, the legal control path is clear, and the political control path is clear.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0137par0305	In the Constitution, the Prime Minister will use his jurisdiction. Is that what it says?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0306	Parliament can handle political control, and the people can do it in the chest. It's also open to public opinion, and it's open to judicial supervision.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0138par0307	Legislation cannot replace judgment, not judgment!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0308	The 125th Article of the Constitution is very clear, and the way of the administration is open to all actions and procedures.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0138par0309	Where is the right of the mirage, which was thrown out of Molotovkottey?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0310	The Prime Minister's decision to give or not permit is not a final decision, and the judiciary is also open there under general provisions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0139par0311	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions I asked!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0312	There is no cover, no cover. Besides, it's not new to allow the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0139par0313	I asked you a question, you didn't answer, answer me here!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0140par0314	Mr. Ali Reza...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0135par0315	Since the day this Law came into effect, the 26th Amendment has a system of consent, and the Prime Minister has the authority.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0139par0316	I asked him a question, but he won't answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0141par0317	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0142par0318	Didn't you talk for 20 minutes, Mr. Ali Reza?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0143par0319	And it's not right for people who haven't discussed it so far to discuss it today.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0144par0320	Don't run from judgment, don't run away!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0143par0321	One other thing: does the Prime Minister give the order about the crime? He won't. Why won't he? Because the Constitution and relevant laws dictate what the Prime Minister will serve on.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0145par0322	Answer the questions, Mr. Secretary! I asked you loud and clear! Drop the demagogue and answer the questions!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0143par0323	The Constitution 137 is very clear.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0146par0324	There's no room for gangs, there's no room for gangs!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0143par0325	He does not give an order that is a crime, and when it is given, he does not release responsibility, and the Prime Minister of Turkey does not give a criminal order today or tomorrow or any other time. But, unfortunately, you trust the appointed, but you don't trust the chosen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0147par0326	Mr. Secretary, answer the questions, answer the questions! Are you deaf?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0148par0327	Mr. President, please... he's insulting you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0149par0328	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0329	Especially with the AK PARTY government.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0151par0330	Answering questions...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0149par0331	Mr. Ozturk, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0332	...to date with gangs...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0149par0333	Listen carefully.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0152par0334	It's not a simple matter. Is this a simple matter?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0335	...a government that has fought the banks, the illegal structures, and earned our nation's appreciation for their actions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0153par0336	Who runs Turkey, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0154par0337	Mr. Ozturk, please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0338	...insistent, insinuated approaches to accuse his Prime Minister and the President of forming a gang are not appropriate here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0153par0339	If you're running it, answer me. If you're not directing it, I'm not. Say it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0154par0341	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0342	It doesn't suit you here, and it doesn't suit you, and it's not nice.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0153par0343	Answer the questions! Answer the questions if you're running them!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0344	The Prime Minister of this country protects the country's interests, but unfortunately there are other things being said. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Well, there's some operations going on. The TK was set up as a parallel configuration, and so on, and so forth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0153par0347	Answer the questions!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0348	Who says that? It's from the terrorist organization and its followers. So there's an agreement on the floor, here's the document. Who explains the document, who pulls it out?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0155par0349	Prosecutor.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0350	Terrorist organizations and their members are saying something.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0156par0351	Demagoji, only demagoji! You'll fool the AKP lawmakers!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0150par0352	Well, the government of the country, the Prime Minister, says: "There is no such thing." He explains, "These are slanders." He says, "There is no such agreement. There is no agreement."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0156par0354	Answer the questions, who provided the intelligence in Uludere?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0157par0355	His papers are coming out, his papers. Well, in that case, don't let him get away with it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0156par0356	Where did you get the intelligence from in the nation?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0158par0357	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0358	Well, I'd like to ask you now: parties or others who are doing politics in our country... the Prime Minister of our country, the Prime Minister of Turkey, when something like this comes up, there's no such thing, it's wrong, it's not true. He's making a statement, we don't believe the Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0160par0359	Then let's go after him, all of us.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0360	...but when a terrorist organization has a document or a piece of paper in their hands, we get up and accuse the country's Prime Minister with the mouths of terrorist organizations. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Is that possible? Is that even possible? Some places, some circles, in Turkey to wear down the country's Prime Minister, are fabricating a number of slanders.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0161par0361	You're slandering, twisting facts.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0362	You're looking. Where did this come from? Here's what the ACK militants found in the search on the ground and everything. Who's saying that? You're looking, everyone's talking. So what? What does the government say? There is no such agreement. We explain it, but despite all this...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0162par0363	Maybe you put it there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0364	...we blame the government for what is in their hands with the supporters and members of terrorist organizations; we believe in the allies of the terrorist organization, but we don't believe in the government of the country. Is that even possible? [[Applause from the EC PARTY ranks; noise from CHP and MHP rows]] It is a slander against the Agency and our country to say that the PKK or the PKK's terrorist organization was founded by the National Intelligence Agency.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0163par0367	Huseyin Steel, Hüseyin Steel is saying what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0368	It's an injustice to all of our people, all of our martyrs, who have fought terrorism so far, and it's not right.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0164par0369	We'll even meet the devil. He says, "You're up now and you're denying it!" There was talks with political instruction. Ahmet Davutoglu said.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0370	The KCK will do parallel construction, which the government will allow, no such thing. Then who's running these operations? Who's in power? Who's in there? Who's doing the operations? Who's the law enforcement officer who put this evidence in front of the prosecutors, who's the security guard? Who's the source of this intel? Is that even possible? It's the security units that take them to the courthouse and deliver them. They take their evidence to the judicial organs and deliver it. They're the ones who'll investigate them and prosecute them. They'll do it. But when you get up out of there and all this is in the middle, you don't want the government or...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0164par0371	If you love God, you'll insult the MPs of these talks!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0372	It is a tremendous mistake to accuse the people who have done great tasks in the government of ▪KCK (KCK) of organizing a parallel structure. Everyone is saying something above Turkey. Turkey, in the Middle East, in the Balkans, in many parts of the world, has significant changes, while Turkey is in a proportional position of its own in terms of these changes, while someone else may be able to account for them, but the power to break all these accounts is in this Parliament, in our nation, in our government. This Parliament has broken all accounts, and has thus far broken all games, and will spoil other games; and those who are counting do so in vain. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'd like to share another matter, which is that the terrorist organizations have infiltrated...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0165par0376	Who are they?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0377	I didn't say the intelligence officers committed a crime. I just said...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0378	Told me what?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0379	I said there's no way he could have infiltrated terror organizations without committing a crime.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0380	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0381	What did I say? That's why I said...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0382	He's gonna kill a soldier...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0159par0383	For example, an intelligence officer -- I'm asking now -- went to a terrorist organization...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0384	You're no Deputy Prime Minister!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0167par0385	Congressmans, please listen, calm down.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0386	What crimes did you commit? How do you know?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0387	...is going to say that the intelligence, the MIT, has assigned me...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0388	How could you leave such a charge above the state? Look at that!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0389	...here's my duty card, and I'm going to come between you, gather intel from you, and then I'm going to report it to relevant locations...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0390	Apparently, you've served there before? Are you on duty?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0391	...will you excuse me? He won't. Then what?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0393	He's gonna commit a crime?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0394	So when he goes there, when he says something to get inside them, what does the penal code say: "Being a member of the organization." That's what I mean.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0395	He's gonna be dealing drugs, huh? He's gonna kill you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0396	Otherwise, he infiltrated the terrorist organization with his life and his life...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0397	He's gonna drop a bomb? He's gonna throw a Molotov?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0398	I didn't make a statement to make it look like a terrorist organization who's willing to be a martyr to this country.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0166par0399	No one's questioning them. No one's questioning them.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0400	Those who make me say it on my behalf are making a great slander against them and against me. My explanations are clear. And I remember clearly in that explanation that there is no such thing. No participation in actions, that can't be said, and there's no way to say it. It's unthinkable, it's impossible to think about.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0169par0402	Don't twist, Mr. Bekir, don't twist, don't twist!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0170par0403	Be brave, be brave! Be brave!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0404	But they took it from there, and it was as if the members of the MIT had carried out the actions of the terrorist organization, and then we looked at it, and there were other people talking.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0170par0405	You told the Prime Minister there was no surgery. He left ten minutes later. What do you know about these things? What do you know?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0406	That's why we need to get one truth right here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0171par0407	We need to determine that he's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0170par0408	You're not telling the truth!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0409	And that's this: members of the MIT, who serve here, the members of the MIT, who have infiltrated the organisations, are serving at the expense of their lives, and they're serving at the risk of martyrdom.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0171par0410	Don't abuse, don't abuse! The asylum is behind them!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0411	Showing them that they cooperate with terrorists, terrorist organizations... whoever's doing this with whoever's saying it, it's doing the biggest of all, not the best of this country's unity, unity, security, back, not the worst of all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0172par0413	You're framing me!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0414	Of course, valuable lawmakers, I'm not saying that in every institution, what is missing may be the wrong one.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0172par0415	Why are you blaming me?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0416	It's not fair to accuse everyone by mistake and error of the institution when you're criticizing an institution because there's one person missing, because there's one person missing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0172par0417	You did it right away because the Chief of Staff is the head of the terrorist organization, didn't you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0418	When there's someone who's wrong, it's the government's duty to hand him over to the law, to open up the path of justice, to make him answer to the judgment, to all of us, to you, to you, and to you, to rule the country. This government has never been a protector of those who commit crimes, nor has it ever stood behind them. We fought the dark buildings, the gangs, the mobs, us.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0173par0421	The court decides the crime, you don't decide the crime...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0422	We did it, we did it with illegal construction...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0173par0423	The court decides the crime. I mean, the guy who went to court...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0424	Those photos are photos of those who did this to Turkey when they ruled Turkey. Now look, there's no mobsters, there's no gangs, there's no secret organizations, there's no illegal organization.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0174par0425	You've escaped judgment, but you won't get out of here!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0426	The people's will is in the hands of the law. Whoever's outside the law has a will against them that comes with the power he takes from the nation and the law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0174par0427	Don't run from the law, don't run from the judiciary!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0168par0428	This will always be the case, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0175par0430	Thank you, Mr. Bozdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0176par0431	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0177par0432	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0175par0433	Wait a minute... Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0177par0435	Sir, Mr. Secretary, I've also stated in my speech that there are protocols and there are audio tapes of Oslo talks, and you believe in what the Prime Minister doesn't have. It's as if he's mistaken that we're getting information about this from an illegal organization. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0175par0436	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0178par0437	No hard feelings, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0175par0438	Congressmans, I leave something to your appreciation. Please, all speakers listen to our MPs calmly, and then if you need to talk, it's better if you answer. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0179par0440	Mr. President, if you'd just done that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0175par0441	I'm telling everyone, sir. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0180par0443	Mr. President, there's no bullying here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0181par0444	Mr. President, he teased us, and we'll answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0175par0445	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0182par0448	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Secretary, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't know what you're talking about. (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) With an agitation here, with an agitation, you want to block the use of the consciences of lawmakers here, but these consciences will come sooner or later.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0183par0450	Look at your own conscience, your own conscience!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0182par0451	In this regard, you said, "No negotiations." You said, "He's a bastard who doesn't prove such a negotiation." You said, "He's a scoundrel." After that, it turned out that you had been negotiating in Oslo talks." (Applause from MHP and CHP rows) Ahmet Davutoglu found it to be by political instruction. No protocol, you said. That, my dear friends, is what we criticize. If there are no protocols in this protocol, then why are you blocking them in exchange for this illegal act if the government has not given political instructions about such issues as autonomous Kurdistan, Turkey, PKK police force? Why are you blocking this? No, you're not telling the truth. If it were like you said, you would have opened the door to the conclusion that the judgment was being ruled out of the job of running it, and you wouldn't have closed it. This nation needs to be the bench of conscience. In that respect, don't fool anyone. Well, if there are missions out there, and they're out of your jurisdiction, why are you avoiding them? Why do you want to block this investigation? In that regard, you interrupt MPs to call in the Prime Minister, give him the Prime Minister, or something like that, to question these dirty and dirty negotiations in public, to account for them in the eyes of the court. It's clear here that your attitude is also evidence that there's a kinship between the government and what's being done. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0184par0455	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0185par0456	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0184par0457	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0185par0458	Mr. President, the ACK investigations...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0186par0459	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0187par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0188par0461	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0189par0462	Wait a minute, I promised Mr. Kaplan, I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0190par0463	In the investigations of nearly 1,000 members of the MIT in criminal activity...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0189par0464	Wait, I didn't hear you, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0190par0465	...a statement aimed at our party...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0191par0466	Mr. President, no teasing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0189par0467	Will you please calm down?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0191par0468	Sir, he said KCK, BDP... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0189par0469	Wait, I don't understand, Mr. Kaplan. Mr. Kaplan, I don't understand. I don't know what you're talking about.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0192par0470	In the investigations of nearly 1,000 members of the MIT in criminal activity...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0189par0471	Yes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0193par0472	Mr. President, may I have a moment of your time? But Mr. President, there's no bullying, it's the KCK, it's the BDP, it's the BDP, it's the MHP, it's the MHP, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0189par0473	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0194par0475	Mr. President, I've been promised a wrong, a right, not to make this place nervous. I'm calling to the government from here: this war that has been going on for 30 years, to end this conflict, to end this brother fight, to the end of the dialogue, to the end of the negotiations, to the end of the negotiations, as long as we put out this fire. We're behind you, we're with you, we're ready to walk with you. It's the right thing to do, and it's the right thing to do to save Turkey from disaster. We're with you to the end, and we're not afraid of anyone. The documents of the unsolved murders that have been committed for 30 years are in the Capitol archives, open this, read this. Who committed the unsolved murders? So fear not, but see also the Imran, and see the Kandil, and go to Oslo, and go to Erbil.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0195par0477	Don't let them deny it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0194par0478	In this House, if you can't do it, if you can't talk inside yourself, if you can't figure it out inside yourself, it's the shame of the House, the political institution, that's a fact. No one, on our part, speak for us. At another point, I'm going to point out that you're wrong. You've arrested 10,000 of our friends in the KCK. Did your MIT organize our MPs? Did they run our mayors out of the election? 10,000 people. Even today, 15 KESK executives were sent to arrest women in court. Political parties are essential elements of democracy. Look, we've come here, and we insist on working in this House, because we see it as the address of living together, the solution. That's why we don't take to the law. With these laws, it's unsolvable, my friends. Let's put the will together to solve the Kurdish problem, together, without hiding behind closed doors, really, quite frankly... after this law comes out, there are a thousand MITISTs in BDP, show me one, I'll give you a medal, show you one! The BDP is an open party, a hearty income works, a belief in income works, a belief in freedom works on income. We're the party that's paying, we're the party that's resisting, but if we get this law, that's what's going to happen. B. X Officer, please come in... If this law is passed, the Prime Minister's document will also look at the following: "The Special Official Document of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey." 009 B. B. He's in charge of the X Task Force. P.S. His mission is unknown. Come on, guys, it'll hurt you, it'll hurt Turkey, it'll hurt all of us. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0196par0486	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0197par0487	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0196par0488	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0197par0489	Mr. President, after my speech, Mr. Bozdağ, when I read TCK 283, did you threaten the public? He took the words I said with different meanings and accused our group. If you'll excuse us, we'd like to respond on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0196par0490	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0197par0491	Mr. Godkulu will answer on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0196par0492	Well, Mr. Godkulu, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0198par0494	Mr. President, Dear Congressman, I mean, it's a really historic day, and we're trying to solve a very important problem with a law. Congress shouldn't have done it this way, it shouldn't have come to this. I made a point in the Commission yesterday, and you don't really know the special authority courts, you don't know the special prosecutors, and since you don't know them, this happened to you, it could happen tomorrow at another job. That's why I pointed out this clause, yesterday on the Commission, and today on the General Assembly. This activity is to allow a person to be arrested within the logic of special authorities prosecutors at the point of not being caught. It can be interpreted that way, Mr. Secretary, it can be interpreted. Otherwise, this Parliament is currently serving as a law within the discretion of special prosecutors and courts. Why can't you understand that? We're speaking Turkish, why don't you understand! The day after tomorrow, a special prosecutor will come out. Why did you offer this law? Did the Undersecretary of MIT set you up, are you a member of that organization? We draw attention to this problem because it exists. This was written in your era, we didn't write, you wrote, you brought, this Congress accepted. If a prosecutor comes forward, what are you going to do when he tells the congressman who made this offer? What will you do if he tells the commission? So let's solve the problem, not with these palliative measures. Let's lay down special jurisdictional courts here, remove them from Turkey's judicial system. Why are you running away? What's it for? Mr. Minister says that during this period, the Prime Minister does not give orders, he does not give them tomorrow, he does not give them in the future. Didn't he, dear friends in the past? How do you secure Turkey's future and the prime ministers who will serve in the coming hours? Is it going to be yours? How do you know? We've been there, I've seen those documents. How can you say there's no people who'll be walking around with those documents the day after tomorrow? So, you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong, you're doing it wrong politically. You can't solve these problems with one-point laws, it can't be solved. Therefore the judgment is there, and you are wasteful of the people, and you are waste of the Undersecretary. You waste it all by arguing so much, you waste it all, you waste it all, you waste it on this. You're arguing about all the right jobs and wrong jobs he's going to do here. They go, they give statements, justice appreciates them. And then we'll evaluate it all here, but you're taking over this institution, and you're using private prosecutors and courts as tuition for politics, and you're doing it wrong. Therefore, the problems are not with one-matter laws, but bring them to the table together, and we will share our will here. You're wasting Turkey. People die every day. You're crossing the line of problems.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0199par0500	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0198par0501	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0503	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0199par0504	Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0505	Mr. President, you've just arrested the speakers, the BDP spokesman, 10,000 of our friends from the NECK. I'm not going into the other speakers one by one, that's enough. Sir, I'd like a word from the tease, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0199par0506	How?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0507	Because of the KCK, we have 10,000 friends... He called and blamed our group. I want an explanation. It's not your job to arrest, it's the duty of the judge. What's that got to do with you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0201par0509	He calls it "judgment." Did you arrest him?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0202par0510	Are you a judge?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0511	I'm going to state that we're not judgmental.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0203par0512	I mean, he didn't say anything to you, but come in.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0204par0513	Shame on you, Idris Bey. He is standing in the back. Don't deny him.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0515	Dear friends, I'm really...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0204par0516	Either Idris is telling the truth or you are!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0517	...we're discussing an important law. But after I started these law talks, I listened to some very valuable orator in my place, and are they really telling the truth? Maybe they're telling the truth once in a while, but after listening to the speakers one by one, I realized that we're really doing a good job here, doing a very good job, doing a very clear job.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0205par0519	You've brought ten motions for him.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0520	Dear friends, a group is leaving from one side saying to continue the negotiations, the other is leaving, you're not negotiating. What if, dear friends, are we negotiating or not?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0206par0521	Your soul mate, your soul mate, you walked down those roads together.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0522	One of you is negotiating, go ahead. You're criticizing us because we're not negotiating, another group is saying something different.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0207par0523	You don't understand, you don't understand!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0524	Look, guys, the National Intelligence Agency, above all, this intelligence unit, this is its mission, it's not the government, it's the government, but...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0208par0525	You're seeing each other and you're not seeing me.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0526	...has done so in the past, and today the state can make some talks because the goal is to end terrorism, end gangs, end mafia, the goal is to build a system of prosperity in terms of Turkey's future, in terms of the welfare of our nation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0208par0527	What about Bekir Bozdağ?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0528	Dear friends, please be a little more reasonable, please, dear friends, let us put our hands on our conscience and speak the truth when we speak here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0208par0529	And you're a negotiator?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0530	Did this law exist before or didn't it? We never did, so we're not just exploring the world, which is the 26th Amendment of the MIT Law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0209par0531	Don't kid people, you brought special arrangements! Then why are you changing the old law?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0532	A law that entered into effect in 1984, and this Law has this sentence, but it has not been carried out. The failure to implement this sentence will cause serious problems for the country's intelligence. Look, guys, if we say we're going to fight against the gangs, we're going to eliminate organized crime. We're saying we're going to take out the biggest terror threat in the world, especially if this government is determined to fight terrorism.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0210par0534	What fight, you're negotiating!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0535	...if the government continues to fight this challenge, please, but please do not expose those who do this mission to serious criminal charges who receive intelligence information and share it with the authorities. We're asking him to reconsider, so let him think it over. He went on the Prime Minister's leave, gave or did not, the Prime Minister is not making the final decision, he is again judging the final decision.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0210par0537	What's the point?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0538	This is an administrative procedure, administrative procedures are subject to administrative justice.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0211par0539	Then you change prosecutors, you change judges!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0200par0540	The prime minister has agreed, and if the prosecutor sees the allegations as serious, he will take them to the administrative court, and he will judge the final decision. So the Prime Minister isn't making the final decision, so he's giving me a chance to reconsider. You've taken on such an important task, in terms of the state's future, and you've made it your job to carry out this mission, and I think how right it is to be subjected to severe punishments for doing this task, and to be threatened with life imprisonment. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0212par0543	Tell them we gave the order!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0213par0544	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0214par0545	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0213par0546	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0214par0547	Mr. Secretary said in his speech: "We bring the guilty to justice." Now, it's possible to make sense here. I mean, we're lawmakers from prison to hospital to the richest of them all. The people in prison who are in custody, the people who are suspects, they're not all criminals, they're all brought to justice. Mr. Secretary's statements suggest that the government considers everyone it brought to justice guilty, and that means that today the judiciary has taken its place, and that I am entitled to judgment. I want to have a talk about this.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0215par0550	Well, you've made your contribution, thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0214par0551	Mr. President, there are arrested MPs inside...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0215par0552	Thank you, there's nothing specific for you. You've said your piece, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0214par0553	There are arrested MPs inside, Mr. Secretary, and he thinks they're guilty.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0215par0554	But you did, you fixed it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0214par0556	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0216par0557	Mr. President, Mr. Ahmet Aydın said they were telling the truth once in a while. He meant us. This is a very obvious taunt, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0215par0558	Here you go, Mr. Slim. Please don't allow any more bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0217par0560	Mr. Tütin, please don't pick on me.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0215par0561	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0218par0563	Thank you. This is a different way of saying lies! And by the way, I just became a veteran, and I hit my head on the bow, so watch out, and I'll tell you what. Dear friends, look, let's fix this. Was there a meeting in Oslo or not? We saw each other. Who did? What did he see? I've put that aside. Now, in Kayseri Square, before the referendum -- as soon as the referendum was seen -- this debate is different, we're discussing something else -- the Prime Minister went to Kayseri Square, Mr. Prime Minister, there was an interview. Those who were dishonest, said they were despicable. That's what we're saying. So you're going to see them and you're going to see them, and you're going to tell people that you've seen them, you son of a bitch. Those words await their owner in Kayseri Square. Those words are hanging there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0219par0568	He's hung.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0218par0569	First of all, that's what we're saying. Secondly, Mr. Ahmet Aydın, even the clock stops twice a day. But unfortunately, you're not even the clock that stopped today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, you, MIT, the police, the power, the community... it's an argument. We don't really know who's in this discussion. Now, you, in this cramped environment, in the environment of dust and smoke, the state is confused, the institutions are confused, everything is confused, and you say, in such an environment, that the tip of this is going to touch us, it's obvious. When you say, "Let's raise your finger," we'll bring in a law, we'll organize it, we'll get out of here. Okay, I get it. You're probably going to pass this law here, Mr. President's position, then the Constitutional Court's position, we'll see about that, but I'm going to show you a newspaper story:.... a billion-dollar profit in 100 tenders..... with what law will you correct it with?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0220par0575	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0218par0576	What law are you going to fix this with?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0220par0577	He's got preparations, too.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0218par0578	Look, when a person starts to do wrong, once they start, they come back like a sock. You're going to try to save the Prime Minister's special officers today, and tomorrow you're going to do a hit on these tenders? What will you do the day after tomorrow?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0220par0579	They've got preparations.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0218par0580	Will this ever end? When will this end? Look: a mill in every stream, if its water comes, A chicken from every peasant, if the peasant gives it to him, It's going well if it comes to the end. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0221par0586	Thank you, Mr. Slim. [[Continue]] On behalf of him, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0595	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I think we've had enough arguing, yelling, yelling. Now, I invite you to try to understand this in silence, in silence. In your consciences, in your minds...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0223par0597	We thought you'd call out to our consciences!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0598	Yeah, I mean, you can tell jokes and laugh every once in a while, but please listen to what I'm saying. Dear friends, look, let's just say this first. And our people are listening, and it's time to listen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0224par0600	It's okay, it's okay! They hung up!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0601	The past, I'm afraid, is the past. Then I'm telling you: Dear friends, in ten years, nine years later, as the Justice and Development Party of Turkey in the Grand National Assembly, is it appropriate for you to be involved in such an argument? First, answer this question in your own conscience. Look, dear friends, the allegations are too heavy. It's impossible to judge the matter by ignoring these claims. The indictment against the newspapers and unrefutable justice claims that a very valuable institution for the future of our country and our nation, such as the National Intelligence Agency, is co-operating with a criminal organization. Who claims that? It's a judgment call. It says that the members of the National Intelligence Agency are in charge of both the construction and the establishment of this CK. The KCK is cognitive in its crimes, and the National Intelligence Agency is working to ensure that a result can be maintained in accordance with the KCK. There are more than seven of them, seven of them, very serious allegations and accusations. Now the republic's prosecutors, who are in charge of the nation with these issues, are investigating them based on the documents that this investigation has reached in its investigation. In this investigation, this investigation, based on information and documents, provides evidence that MIT executives have been involved in the crime, which opens the file. He's interviewing 5 MIT executives with a file he opened. That's the thing. The bet is heavy. The future of our government, so if this claim is not answered, then the perpetrator of all perpetrators will be found. He already claims as a state, and now, the institution within the state will be known, MIT. Now, dear friends, the person in charge of explaining that the investigation launched by the judiciary is not against the government's political preferences and policies. İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor Mr. Fikret Elçien says that this investigation was launched during an investigation launched by the Public Prosecutor's Office against the TK terrorist organization due to the fact that some state officials were acting outside the office given by the executive body, in which they were able to produce evidence that would help the organization's actions to be carried out. Who is to say this? Attorney General of the Republic. We're not gonna believe this, guys? Aren't we going to find this valuable?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0225par0606	You don't want it investigated? It's not to believe, it's not to be investigated? Let him be investigated.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0607	So, excuse me, but in the heat of being caught red-handed, you're bringing this law here. Why did you depose this prosecutor? And you've relieved 12 law enforcement officers of this investigation. What's with the anger? You have a fear of where this investigation might lead. You bring this law as a measure of your concern about your government, about your party, about whether you're officially caught red-handed or whether there's going to be more serious consequences if you don't take precautions now, that's the bottom line. There's been a lot of heavy accusations, allegations, questions, no answers. What the Deputy Prime Minister is doing is emotional, polymics over the Prime Minister, abuse. It's not like that. So, we cannot interfere with the independence of the ruling. How will the AKP's government, which boasts, explain the fact that a legal proposal has been brought here to intercept an investigation that has now been set up by the judiciary? How are you going to tell everyone about this? Now, there's a warrant for the arrest of five people. You're in the middle, the police aren't doing their duty, they're not doing their job. These five people...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0226par0608	He's calling a statement, not a warrant.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0609	It's not an arrest. It's a warrant. It's a warrant. You've interrupted the trial. What's the motive? Dear friends, look, the bidder has told me a long time here. I want to tell you something else. The main thing is not to commit a crime. The main thing is not to be involved in an act outside the law, or the measures you take will not protect you. This law does not protect you. A friend of mine just told me, and I actually told the TV today. As in Article 15 of the Constitution, which you have lifted, you need to build a suit of armor. What you're doing is against the Constitution, what you're doing is against the law, and what you're doing is against the existing Turkish Penal Code. Now, you, in my opinion, must contribute to this law by making a motion that states that all executives of the AKP are in charge of all administrative, financial, legal responsibility in their term, that they cannot be investigated. Put a clause here so that you can protect yourself. (MHP cheers) Otherwise, that's where it's going to end. Dear friends, I hope you won't need it, but why bring it now? Look, I'll tell my fellow bidder that under the 26th Amendment of the MIT Act, the prime minister will be granted permission. Why do you need it now? By your proposal, you're saying that if the Prime Minister's special assignments are to be investigated, the Prime Minister will be granted permission. Dear friends, the 4th article of the MIT Act contains the duties of the MIT. There are no special tasks for the prime minister in the MIT.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0227par0614	He won't take it. Read the 2nd article.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0615	Dear friends, the 4th article of the MIT Act does not include special duties given by the Prime Minister among the MIT intelligence officers. What special task will the Prime Minister give, but in the event of criminal activity on this special mission, you're making his investigation a warrant from the Prime Minister? Based on what assumption?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0228par0616	There must be crimes committed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0617	Who is this Prime Minister's special task force? No description. What special duties will be given? No description. So, as someone claims, the Prime Minister is building his own deep state, is that what he's developing law for? I'm saying one more thing, and I'm running out of time, and the Prime Minister doesn't need that kind of protection. No one needs protection from the law, from the judiciary, so let him give his statement. We insist as the National Movement Party, why do you interrupt the judiciary, prevent people from being cleared? There's a lot of strong accusations, so let these charges be questioned. Why are you avoiding your own judgment?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0229par0619	It's based on Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0230par0620	I guess it's true.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0621	When we were going to trust the judiciary, there was a judge's guarantee, there was independence of the judiciary, there was the 138th article of the Constitution? What's the rush? What's with the fear? Dear friends, look, I'm reminding you to read back to the next 1957, that's the reaction of the decline period. I'm also saying that there are some very valuable lawyers among you, and you know that this law is both against the Constitution and against universal law. It's the law, the law, that's the law, that's the law, that's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0231par0625	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0626	Mr. President, I'm completing. So using legislation, the government has no right to narrow the scope of the judiciary using the Turkish Grand National Assembly, friends, it has no right to use the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to expand its territory. It goes against the rule of law, against the rule of law; it goes against the principle of the separation of forces of our system. Therefore, Mr. Oktay Vural, as Mr. Oktay Vural said, must explain why this law was brought here. What crimes are you hiding? What kind of fear leads you to such a conclusion? It's a mind-blowing law. It's already in the law, the Prime Minister will get permission, so why bring it back?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0232par0629	Why didn't he take it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0222par0630	Well, I guess I do! Well, I guess I do! Therefore, dear friends, I address your common sense, the integrity of your conscience, the integrity of your minds: what you do is not right, and by what you do you burden the Prime Minister with a very heavy burden. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now the Prime Minister is on the side, the side of the bargain. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0233par0636	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Members of parliament, there is a motion on this clause in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm having the motion read...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0234par0639	You're not in the material.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit04spe0233par0640	No, it's all over... I said it wrong, I'm sorry. There is a motion for talks on all of it according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. Your imposition is 72. In accordance with the clause, we propose that the negotiations continue. For law enforcement law enforcement to learn more about this proposal to legitimize the state's rule of law, which violates the rule of law, which helps to intervene in the judiciary, which is to legitimise the state's legal and parallel state formation with illegal actions. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0233par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 164. The commission and the government are in place. Now, we're going to do a 20-minute QA on the whole proposal. Mr. Kaplan... no. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0235par0007	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is the government: militants of the PKK terror organization from Habur Border Gate had entered our country with a free hand depending on the openings. How many times has there been a meeting with the PKK terror organization before and after the entry of the separatist terrorist group? Are there 90-95 per cent agreed on issues with Imralı villains and terrorist organizations? What are they? What are the studies conducted with the terrorist organization under the agreement provided? Where and at what level have the limits of domestic campaigns to prepare public opinion been kept? What works have been carried out in Parliament, the government, in the adoption of 90-95 per cent of the issues you agreed on to society, the state? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0236par0012	Thank you, Mr. Right. Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0237par0014	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, we've seen it in today's debates, so it's not wanted, rights, law and justice. The account is being asked why the talks were held, why the talks were held in Oslo, starting with Habur. We say that these meetings were the right talks, and that's all that needs to be done from now on. Thirty years of fighting and violence, this problem has not been solved. It wasn't just the MIT guys, it was the government. From now on, these negotiations must take place. Secondly, this prosecutor was taken away from the incident, but the same prosecutor conducted an operation on the NECK, the same night, and hundreds of people were arrested. In this fight, Kurd Mehmet is on watch again, Kurds are back in prison. If this prosecutor isn't defending rights, law and justice, why is he still equipped with special powers? Why is he still in charge of the ACK operations? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0238par0018	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Mr. Tanal... no. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0239par0021	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, my question was Mr. Bozdağ. But Mr. Secretary can also answer. You remember, Mr. Secretary, that in the face of the dismissal of Şemdinian Prosecutor Ferhat Sarıkaya, Mr. Bozdağ and you said this was a clear intervention in the independence of the judiciary. Now, another prosecutor with the same family name has been dismissed in another investigation. In your opinion, isn't that an intervention in judgment? It's an intervention in judicial independence, isn't it? The second incident: you continue to operate on the NEP, but you also remove the prosecutor and the police investigating this operation. How is that a contradiction? I wonder how you're going to explain that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0240par0026	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0241par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, has the so-called leading road map of the leader of the terrorist organization been given to the Prime Minister? My second question: What is involved in the so-called road map of leadership that the Blood Terror Organization gave to the government, which the government apparently shares with terrorists abroad? What are the issues you allow to discuss with the terrorist organisation on the so-called leading road map, and what steps have been taken by the AKP government so far? What were the four other meetings discussed before the 5th Oslo meeting, and what promises were made? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0242par0034	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0243par0036	Thank you, Mayor. Minister, at what time did you send Hakan Fidan to İmralı? Do you have a written order for the Imralı to be dealt with? Has the request for a visit and a meeting come from the Imralı? What messages did Hakan Fidan deliver to you on his return from Imralı?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0242par0038	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0244par0040	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to address your conscience and logic directly. As far as the press is concerned, this referendum and general election process have information that the MIT is operating in favour of the ruling party in the election process against the Republican People's Party, DP and BDP. With this kind of information available, when there are deaths and there are charges of treason, do you think that MIT will be able to function after this law, after this legal arrangement, if these guys can function easily, is that logical or correct? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0245par0043	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. Dear Earth... no. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0246par0046	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, since Hakan Fidan, who stated that he attended the Oslo talks as Deputy Prime Minister as the Prime Minister's special representative at this time, is it an operation to rescue him and the Prime Minister, who you added special duties to the law? Second: In these talks, the names of those who applied to the PKK to set up a TV channel in the east were written by the PKK sympathizer, and I called the governor, who is non-sympathetic? Let them do it. I said let them do it. Permission granted, and the television channel started broadcasting. What channel is the television that Mr. Hakan Fidan had mentioned about the establishment of his expressions? Who is this governor? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0247par0050	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0248par0052	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we know that special prosecutors have been given the right to review without permission from the Joint Chiefs and have been entered into cosmic rooms. That means the special prosecutors have absolute confidence. Well, when it comes to investigating the Undersecretary of MIT, why can't special prosecutors be trusted? Isn't that a contradiction? Second of all, with this proposal of law, don't you give the Undersecretary of MIT immunity to the law? Third: Won't there be a law in the constitutional democratic law state and two separate laws directed by the Prime Minister? Fourth: In democracies, isn't law for everyone, for everyone? Fifth: What is the place in the legal state of democracy, justice and living? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0249par0059	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0250par0061	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ denies it, the MIT has to commit a crime in order to infiltrate terrorist organizations without firing weapons on the military and without being a live bomb. He just admitted it himself. This is indeed a confession. That means he knows some things. Now I wonder if MIT had been infiltrated by the massacres in Çorum, Marash, Madimak, and the massacres in Madımak. If he did, was he involved in the crimes and what crimes did he commit?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0251par0064	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Moroglu...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0252par0066	Mr. Secretary, this law hasn't been passed yet, and it's been a week since we started investigating these people. It'll probably be another two or three days before I get back from the president and it's published in the Official Gazette. In the meantime, who's been hiding these officers? Who's gonna be responsible if something happens to them? Or if they continue to commit crimes, who will we answer to?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0251par0067	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. Here you go, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0253par0069	Mr. President, thank you. In the last ten years, how many members of our National Intelligence Agency have been transferred to the courthouses where they have abused their duties, exceeded their duties, exceeded their authority? I want to know the number of these. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0254par0072	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0074	Thank you, Mr. President. The first question is for Mr. Reshat True. Depending on the openings, the PKK's terrorist organization militants entered the dorm. You said they were waving their hands. How many times have they been interviewed? The first question is this, Mr. Right. Dear lawmakers, regarding that incident in 2009, there was no conversation with those who came in, not with the people who entered the house, but -- it has already been expressed in this Parliament -- when the terrorist organization's leader came to Turkey in 1999, he was imprisoned in İmrali Island, and his trials were held by Ankara courts on the island to go to İmralı. Before and after these trials, the state's relevant, authorized units have held talks with the leader of the terrorist organization at the time and on the ground, when they needed it from the day it arrived in Turkey. That's where the procedural times were expressed. During this period and during every political power that has ever served, certain talks were held when needed; military bureaucracy, intelligence bureaucracy, security bureaucracy.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0256par0077	There was never a political meeting.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0078	I'm not saying political.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0256par0079	Politics, your political talks.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0080	I didn't say political, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0256par0081	We're talking about politics.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0082	Mr. Vural, I didn't say political. What I'm saying is that military bureaucracy has spoken, intelligence bureaucracy has spoken, security bureaucracy has spoken. I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0257par0083	Did they negotiate the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0084	And valuable lawmakers, if a state has the means to solve such a burning problem that already exists in its country, if it has the means, if it has such an instrument, it should be questioned whether to use it or not to resort to it. What country is there in the world that doesn't have the means to use it when he can? The present blood in Turkey is the security bureaucracy, the politician, who seeks a cure for the stopping, ending of current violence, not crying, no matter what you say...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0258par0085	What's that got to do with mothers not crying?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0086	Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0258par0087	What does Turkish nonsense have to do with autonomous Kurdistan?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0088	Well, then, members of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0259par0089	Please, please don't talk to me, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0090	...after these negotiations began here, the valuable spokesman of the three political parties went out and talked for 20 minutes. They made a lot of accusations, a lot of heavy talk, but...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0260par0091	There's more, there's 12 recordings.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0092	But our understanding of democracy, our democratic culture, our respect for our discussion... began when the spokesman for the ruling party came out, the talks began, the same way that the Deputy Prime Minister, who came out and spoke on behalf of the government, interfered in the same way. Now, you ask questions for ten minutes, and I try to answer those questions, but I see that you don't want to be able to get anyone to speak from the podium, and you don't want to sit down and ask questions...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0260par0093	Demagoji, don't!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0094	...you're providing access to a government member who's trying to respond with a certain sutra.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0260par0095	Demagoji, don't! Don't demagogue, answer the questions. Don't turn away!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0096	Please don't sabotage...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0260par0097	Don't turn away!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0255par0098	I try to answer as many questions from here as possible.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0260par0099	Answer the questions seriously.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0261par0100	Here you go, Mr. Ergin. Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0262par0102	This kind of dialogue is out of the question.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0263par0103	You don't answer questions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0262par0104	You're the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0263par0105	You're the Minister, answer the questions with dignity!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0262par0106	Please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0264par0107	Mr. Ergin, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0263par0108	You violated the law in Habur.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0262par0109	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0264par0110	Mr. Vural, please don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0265par0111	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0262par0112	Dear friends, everyone will do what is best for them, so let's get on with our work.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0266par0114	That law suits you very well, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0262par0115	These talks have been held so far, and after that, if any government security agencies, intelligence agencies need them, they'll be held.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0267par0116	We like to ask you questions against those who are negotiating with the PKK, we have the heart to ask questions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0268par0117	Ask the question, but ask the question accordingly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0269par0118	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0267par0119	Look, you don't talk the way you do, either, you see? You're doing the right thing, Mahir. Look at you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0270par0120	Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0121	The second issue is: A lot of talks have been said about what intelligence units have discussed, what has not been discussed, whether they have reached an agreement, whether any agreement has been held. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, to be honest, you weren't in these meetings, and neither were we.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0272par0123	You're in, you're in. According to the political directive Ahmet Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0124	As a result of these talks, if the state of the Republic of Turkey and the government of Parliament, which existed under that state, had a basis that the government had received the vote of confidence and could have accepted, we would have brought this and taken action to do what is necessary in this Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0272par0125	Sure, sure...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0126	Intelligence agencies are not organizations that exist all over the world to meet good people. They work for criminal, criminal, anti-resistant organizations, intelligence organizations. So if it comes to a reasonable conclusion here, they come to a place to be implemented. Your conversation may say things that have never occurred to us, make demands, but only those who make the request unless they're accepted. There's no indication that the intelligence agencies that have made these calls to our government at this point. At this point, there are no promises and commitments made by our government at this point by the political institution, and I declare it very clear.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0272par0127	"The political order" said Ahmet Davutoglu.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0128	I move to the question of Mr. Sakık, Mr. Sakık, why were the meetings held after the meeting? The question is now being asked. They asked a sort of question. He also asked why the prosecutor had been confiscated from this investigation and why the same prosecutor had been carried out on the TK investigation. Dear MPs, you're all watching, Mr. Shandir, who has the next problem, asked a similar question: ▪ Şemdinlı Prosecutor Ferhat Sarıkaya was relieved of duty, you reacted very strongly to it; now another Sarkaya has been dismissed, why don't you put any reaction to it? I'll try to answer two questions by combining them. Post-Habur meetings, etcetera, that's your interpretation. I'm not going to take any evaluations on this, as the process is going on right now, but the incident with the prosecution's removal of the file is a total bailout from the Istanbul Attorney's Office.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0273par0131	They do it without you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0132	The HSYK, Judges and Prosecutors' Supreme Council has no savings in removing the relevant part of this case from the prosecutor's hands.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0274par0133	What about the lighthouse?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0134	The decision to continue TK investigations is also the savings of the relevant Attorney General's office, its application. You have reacted to Farhat Sarıkaya, why do you not show it? Dear MPs, let's remember that Van Prosecutor Ferhat Sarıkaya was removed from the case and discharged from the profession after a trial he had prepared. We have stated that the discharge of this profession, if there is a mistake that the prosecutor has done, there may be a complaint-based procedure, but the exports of the HSYK, which HSYK has done, are based on none of the grounds in the existing Judges and Prosecutors' Law, and that it is an arbitrary discharge. However, in the next exercise, there is no hand-pulling or deposed to the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. What has been done is the İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, who has been charged with conducting the investigation, has expressed its reason for the emergence of the painting. One is, our Attorney General has not been briefed on this matter while such an important savings are being made. Secondly, the secrecy of this investigation has not been observed. In the file, it has been decided that information hidden from entity lawyers and parties should be taken away from this investigation because of the fact that sheets have been published in all media organs. This is the savings of the relevant Attorney General. That prosecutor is currently in charge of his duties, doing his work on other investigation files. I think it would be very wrong to make a comparison between Van Prosecutor Farhad Sarikaya and this.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0275par0137	Mr. Secretary, I have your statements from that time. That's when you reacted to him being removed from the file.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0138	The same second question is that you removed the prosecutors and the police who were investigating. You say. Of course, I don't know why the Security Service, the Homeland Department, has a reason for it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0276par0139	You represent the government.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0140	I'll ask our minister about the motive for it and I'll brief you in writing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0276par0141	Toucher's on fire. Anyone who touches the ACK gets burned.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0271par0142	But we didn't get our hands on the D.A. who did the TK investigation, I just told you. Mr. President, I will answer the remaining questions in writing. We're out of time. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0277par0145	Thank you, Mr. Ergin. The talks on the entire proposal...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0278par0147	Mr. President, the Minister has wandered, wandered, avoided answering clear questions. So we expected the Minister to answer these questions bravely.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0277par0148	Mr. Vural, we're out of time. He said he'd answer in writing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0278par0149	If you want to talk, talk on the stand. You have the right to speak on the stand, why don't you speak?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0279par0150	You didn't let anyone answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0277par0151	The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. RETROLATION PRODUCTIONS AND MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY REFERENCE MADDE 1-1/11/1983 was changed in the following way, along with Article 26 of State Intelligence Services No. 2937 and National Intelligence Service Law. It is up to the Prime Minister's permission to investigate those appointed to perform a special mission by members of the MADDE 26-MIT or the Prime Minister, who have been assigned to carry out their duties, due to crimes committed during the nature of the mission or during the execution of the mission, or on the charge of Article 5271 of Article One of Article 250 of the Law, as charged with crimes committed in the field of duty. Erzurum MP Oktay Ozturk on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0280par0161	Mr. President, I'm here to present to you the views of the National Party of Action on the 1st Article of Law 164. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we're making a law in the middle of a crisis. It's really hard to make laws in these environments, but we all want to approach this objectively, as a member of parliament, as far away from our personal, subjective views as possible -- whether it should be removed or not -- this stance is important for the health and health of the law. There is a crisis that we really don't want, which no one is pleased with, and there are those who call it a state crisis. Here's the MIT, the government, the judiciary and the safety. A variety of groupings are now in a mutual position, and the prosecutor who handled the case has been removed from the file, and has launched an investigation into the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors. On the other hand, there's a court order; there's been a warrant and a court order for the arrest. So in a situation like this, as a legislature, we are somehow involved in the functioning of the judiciary. Congressmans, the bill that came before you through the Commission is, in our opinion, a murder of the law, a freak of nature. We're dealing with a design based solely on the power of the finger. The authorities use it by the power they get from the people, and sometimes they do it wrong, although it's with bad intentions or good intentions. In these cases, independent justice is carried out by the principle of separation of forces. The path of judgment, the path of judgment, comes into play for those who exercise their power wrongly, evilly, or deliberately. No, it's not a crime. Antithesis is proposed in judicial dialectics, and in the process, the verdict is reached, and the republic's prosecutors investigate the need for what they see. There's an ongoing investigation now, which is a KCK investigation, allegedly building a city for the PKK terrorist organization. The prosecutor's office is making decisions on the allegations that some MIT officials have committed crimes by acting actively in this organisation. Now, the law that we've come up with is that we've just been amazed at Bekir Bozdağ, as if we've brought this law or we've created the events that led to this law -- accusing us of opportunism -- and we've had the opportunity to talk. We remind him that this law is your law, the events that led to this law have been published in the press, and the prosecutor has launched an investigation, and we've been informed about it, and we're talking here. Look, when we look at that prosecutor's allegations, we say, wow, if these are real. First, the MIT is alleged to have carried out the ACK construction under its own supervision and supervision, which is a grave claim. Other than the mission to collect and obtain intelligence and information from the MIT delegation, he mediated and directed the organisation's administration. The MIT has contributed to its passive stance, both in direct contact with its members, as well as in preventing and preventing the attacks and information of its attack through its members. He's saying, "Hey, He has agreed with separatist circles to break the integrity of the state and break constitutional order by violating the task of collecting intelligence. He condoned the bloody acts and was a courier between the prisoner and the Kandil in Imran. As part of the commitments made to the organisation, security forces are involved in working to prevent their operations and to report back to bloody terror, he says. That's not what we're saying, it's what the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is saying, because you sit at the table and agree, but because you don't stick to your agreement, they're revealing the talks there, and so is the state's attorney...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0281par0167	So do you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0280par0168	I believe in the law. ... He's suing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0281par0170	Go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0280par0171	The D.A. is suing, and we say, "Let these be investigated, investigated." Why are we running away from this? Why are we running away?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0281par0172	Just like that, just like that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0280par0173	It's not like that. It suits you. Look in the mirror, look in the mirror, brother. Look in the mirror and you'll see yourself.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0282par0174	Don't you want the prosecutor to believe it? You don't believe the prosecutor?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0280par0175	If we don't believe this prosecutor, the investigations that these prosecutors have done before will be discussed, my friends. The prosecutor was removed from the case and immediately started investigating by the HSYK, and the Minister of Justice has made it clear that he will grant a warrant. There's a conflict of reason here. Is it the prosecutor's way or is it the intention? Is it intended to obstruct this investigation by enforcing this bill, or is the government building a fortress against criminal investigations in a hurry to find itself in a criminal coil? Or is it believed that a malicious organization in the judiciary deliberately targeted the Prime Minister? Our serious reason for considering this crucial point is that the people present at the Oslo meeting represent the Prime Minister. As we spoke at the Justice Commission yesterday, an MP was saying that not only was there an MIT member, but also the gendarme, but the Ministry of Defense, many bureaucrats were here, the state was there, along with the government. If he had given a statement, this order would have been asked, and the claim of determination would have come into effect. What would prevent the CMK from questioning the country's Prime Minister by arresting the Chief of Staff and making him the defendant? In the past, those who installed cameras in the bedrooms of the opposition of the AKP used the same cameras in Oslo to make the AKP a pure staff. With this bill, you can see the danger coming to your door. The law you wish to adopt will be returned from the Constitutional Court. You are clearly making a law that violates the principle of separation of forces. This isn't the way out. The current government and the prime minister seem scared, but you're looking for a wrong solution from people who are trying to provide recruitment and power with hidden camera footage and unlimited budgets. Today's democratisation programme is part of the most important activity of the current ruling party. In fact, for this purpose, the rooms with state military secrets have been entered, and the chiefs of staff have been arrested, and even though detention is a measure, the representatives of the elected MP's will have not been evacuated. We've respected and watched these decisions as the decision of members of the judicial community. All of this has been carried out by the Prime Minister himself. He has been given warnings and even in some cases, I am the prosecutor of this case. Now, I represent the prime minister, who says, "He is under investigation under the NGO activities, but the most important members of the AKP's ruling force have condemned and opposed this investigation." The last time Bekir Bozdağ said, "You can't enter the organization unless you commit a crime." Now, let's consider him a lawyer. Is there an extenuating reason in our law for committing crimes to prevent crime or to disband a criminal network? Is there a clause in the non-criminal process? We're the state of law, we can't bring the elected member of the nation to Parliament, but I represent the Prime Minister, we'll excuse the criminal with his alibi, and we'll stop him from being investigated. Yeah, but how do we know the Prime Minister's doing the right thing? Political will, as a result. According to the opposition, should we see the wrong in the Prime Minister's truth and then label him as a crime in the law? Come and listen to our proposal. First stop the AKP staffing immediately. Deploy the ambition that extends even to the exams. Listen to the Quran. Allah says, "Give the law to the people." Then let's give the Supreme Court the preliminary authorization to investigate the crimes of the chief of staff, the chief of staff, the head of the department, the office, the head of the department, or the deputy director, and the Supreme Court, and let this preliminary investigation be subject to a decision to continue the investigation through the Supreme Court or the ongoing investigation of the Constitutional Court, so that it may be heard, or referred to arrest...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0283par0185	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0280par0187	You're wrong to place the crimes of political will on the head of political will, so please stop insisting. To this day, the nation has not put too much pressure on what you do with the money collected from the right to the left, saying, "Let there be poison, let there be poison." And he wrote it down. But it's not like that, it's about the blood of the sons of our homeland; it's not about the poison, it's not about the poison, it's not about closing, it's not about closing. If even 1% of these claims are true, if a drop of the blood of a son of a motherland has been shed because of you, if we don't bring you to the courts where you use your power to silence us, then this stand is forbidden to us. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0284par0192	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0285par0195	Thank you. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the People's Party of Peace and Democracy. I salute you all. What we're really discussing is the country's democracy, its future, the new Constitutional process, and all of that. The change in the MIT Law, which we discussed today, calls for special immunity to a special group, and that immunity is called due to a special assignment. What is this special assignment? Vague. The subject is vague, the number is uncertain, the frame is uncertain. What field will he work in? Vague. Although it is called the field of national intelligence, and it inevitably leads us back to the '90s. What did the intelligence organizations do in the 90s, what happened during that time, what lesson did we learn from that day, what we should do today? Now, I'm always showing this Susurity Report, which most people don't like, but on every page of this Susurluk Report, there are murders in the Special War Agency, in the Special Forces Intelligence Agency, from the murder of MIT, National Intelligence, JİTEM (JİTEM), the intelligence of the Chief of Staff, the Special Forces, the murder of many parties, from the murder of our mayor, Mehmet Sincar, to the murder of MP. And that's when it turns out that there were operational missions to the National Intelligence Agency from hidden funds, covered funds, in the horror pages that fell on the Sustainment Report. So, does the National Intelligence Service have operational authority in the law, outside of intelligence, to go and assassinate, commit murder, destroy their opponents? No. However, in this southeast syndrome, in the grip of separatism syndrome, the perpetrators of all these murders were walking around with a document, and we performed a thousand operations. Now this is our special officer. We will do the same with this law. Today, you can count on yourself, you're in power. Prime Minister, you might think he wouldn't make a mistake. Tomorrow, these seats, these authorities, they're not our property, so we didn't nail them, none of us are going to go here, change missions, and when someone comes along and tries to use them as they please, how are you, in conscience, going to weigh it? Think about it very, very carefully. Now, we're looking at the killings of this period, on the one hand, they're using cracks, they're killings, they're building a triangle for politics-mafia-know-what; on the one hand, they're using green. Green is given $50 million in covered funds. There goes the bombing at Bekaa, the assassination attempt against Ocalan. The bomb goes off, the phones go on, the satellite shows no results; on the one hand, you're looking at missing weapons, a governor in Batman has taken a ton of guns. There's no inventory of those weapons, no weapons. Now we haven't forgotten any of this. No one's been asked to account for any of this. So you've been in power for ten years. You're saying we're going to have to answer to the troops. We'll check with the gangs. Who's holding you, brother? For God's sake, there's a report here and a report from the Unsubstantiated Murders Commission. No one's stopping you. You don't, so there's a force holding you; you can't go over it. You can't go or you're scared or you can't afford it or a force or a force is holding you at a certain point. You can't go beyond Firat (Pharaoh) in particular. Now, when you have that authority, will you be defending yourself? That's a big mistake, too. Now, look here. The MIT is counting from the covered fund. Who said that? Eymur. After that, there's the money that's being handed over to the Police Department in cash. There's the Tarek Hope thing, the casino thing. Whatever you mix up, there's a very special department of the National Intelligence Agency under it. Look, in this particular section, it says how much money the dirty agents used to scrape together from the coffers. Now, are you going to do that, too, operationally, when you take this law, this authority? Now, there is no limit to the money given to Green. It's right here, in the Silence Report. Are you going to use the green ones? You're saying that a thousand MIT members have infiltrated the political party. BDP does not have a thousand managers. What the hell is this? If someone at the Deputy Prime Minister level is saying that crime has been committed, then he should explain it well. As Nasrettin Hoxha said, if the cat ate the meat, where is the meat, and where is the cat? I swear to God, the operation was done, we saw it. Before the election, you took out a lot of tapes, lots of tapes, and you're said to have ten or fifteen of them. I don't know when these tapes are gonna be available. And I don't know if that's going to go into special tasks. The closed box is questioned. Every evil thing will be questioned about there. Any evil will be blamed for it. They're all held accountable by the political government. We're drawing attention to the danger here. Look, it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on There are butchers. He says, "There is a team of hangers." He says. Friends, no lessons from here, no lessons from here. Now, I'm going to point out something else at this point that's not taken. I'm asking: Suppose you were tasked with 009. B. BX agent duty. And the Prime Minister said, "I'm not making a decision about him." Prime Minister, isn't the government an executive? Don't run it. Are the operations of the administration subject to administrative jurisdiction or not? So, when you run away from CMK, private court, you think you're going to get rid of a mistrial in the administration court? He canceled the procedure. He canceled his procedure, and the private court won't judge him, so what? You went to an incompatible court. In court, you're stuck with each other, where you can't solve it, it goes to the ECHR or the Constitutional Court. Here, you've opened up a new discussion, here, here, you've brought up another complicated subject. Now, he's a stubborn prosecutor, or he's got a lawyer, and somebody's gonna open this case up real easy. Can you stop it? It's management, isn't it, government? Isn't it the Prime Minister's administration, not the execution? I mean, their savings, according to the Constitution, are being cancelled. You get out of a private court, you come to court and hang out. Now, if I really want to open private courts, but my time is limited... Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay says that the Kurdish issue cannot be solved with such military measures. We're going to have a democracy. Now, I'm asking the Ministry of Finance, and I'm saying... that those involved in fighting for thirty years, those involved in operations are being paid in private, they're being compensated. Look, this is the answers I've been given, coming in this week. No one's paying the ECHR compensations. Well, now, since we're going to do something right, come, we're going to do a new Constitution... we've given laws to lift private courts, we've given laws to abolish privacy, we've given laws for fair trial, we've given laws for the development of democracy, we've given laws for freedom of thought, organization, we've given laws for the wheels of democracy to operate. Come in, since democracy, since it's legislature, since it's the will of Parliament, we invite you to join us. But our TMK has not been combined with what I've been offering with CMK, nor is it among the laws discussed in the Justice Department package last Wednesday. I called, I gave it to Congress, my bill is missing. I said he's missing. I said he's been found. No, guys, it was my private-life law proposal on I.T. Crimes in the package that day, and it's still CMK 250, 251, the law proposal for the removal of private courts...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0286par0211	Please, finish your words.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0285par0212	I'm picking it up. Our special law proposal is missing. Now, I'm asking you, how does the Speaker of Parliament -- four groups here -- lose our bill? The law of the law, my friends, is not admirable, it's legal. The law of order doesn't apply to the past. Look, don't make that mistake. Look, you brought in a motion for item 1. You even tried to change it on the way over. You also gave a temporary substance, which is applied to ongoing cases. It cannot be applied. You've given me two holes, so the Constitutional Court can call it off. If he looks at it legally, it'll be cancelled, two of them will be cancelled, and that's all for nothing, the House will be working overtime. You have to pay attention to these. Come on, let's open the way for democracy, let's run its rules, but not with secret, secret, secret investigations, fetishes, we're telling you that. We're leading the right way, you're pushing the wrong way. We'll keep saying that. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0287par0216	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Emine Ültur Tarhan. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0288par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, there are some illusionists in a country where there are freedoms in the cage, and they tell us that your time is an advanced democracy. Because in a modern, well-working, rational democracy, it is not possible for a prime minister to make a law to protect his immediate environment. In fact, in democracies, the prime ministers need to limit their power. And in modern democracies, prime ministers don't put new norms into mass communication tools that we know of. Unnamed censorship laws to silence journalists, ban free thinking... they don't do that. They won't let the monopoly of power dictate the monopoly. Big men trembling in fear, journalists, executioners don't bless in democratic societies. In a real state of law, those who believe that the cities are filled with bombs, those who are bursting with bombs in Reshadia, those who are mixed with jokes, those who know where the bombs are and who don't know where they're going to go off. Did these people let civilians die, or did the Doves just let innocent people die and get bombed? They'll pay for that. Intelligence agencies enter organisations not to commit crimes, but to prevent crime in democratic societies. And in modern democracies, it's not uncommon, it's unusual, that everyone is secretly listened to, and that these illegal records are used by the power as election material. Fifth Column activities are not allowed in democracies. Those who exercise their democratic right to object, we bring out our special forces of five, ten thousand special officers against young people who have been hurt by a code scandal. These children do not face threats. The Democratic government opposes all irregular trials. He also punishes prosecutors who give the press the investigations published in Tefrika, not just the Lighthouse prosecutors. Look, why did you promote those who allowed Hrant Dink to be killed? They answer the question, "Why did you send the journalists to prison who deciphered it?" They answer the question, "Where were you when the rights given to the Constitution and the MPs were violated?" Were their rights less important, and they answer the MIT? Bekir Bozdağ, who is said to have studied law, does not say that intelligence officers can commit crimes to infiltrate criminal organizations, is in democratic societies, because a lawyer knows very well that this will eliminate democratic state order. Let's change this law after the general amendment of the law. ▪ We still need special courts, and when our needs are gone, we can remove them. He does not say that, he cannot say that. Well, you won't need a special court of law after you have special staff. When a state crisis breaks in a democratic state, the Prime Minister doesn't disappear, friends, whether written or not, he comes out and makes a statement. In order to break this law, to blow up the blood pressure, this law at the cost of creating false polemics and the second Sarikaya case is very dangerous in democratic societies, it needs to be known. But unfortunately, the precondition for this is a democratic and rational state, but we don't live in that kind of place. Those who rule us say, "I want to do something." He says, "Oh, God, it's not enough, it's the law, let's change it, let's change it, let's do it again." How did someone have good children, and I have good children? I know them. He says, "I know them." And he feels that he has to protect them. Now, as a 25-year-old lawyer, I'll tell you what this law means to me: this law, at first glance, is the panic room of power, friends, a panic room that he's trying to hide in, but not just the power, obviously, but the government, too. This law is intended to protect both the Prime Minister, the private structures and gangs that are likely to be established or established. I'm afraid we're going to have to reminisce about a mud creek, a mud creek we're trying to forget, the one who shoots bullets for the government, the one who burns, the one who washes, the one who bombs. Look, this law to conceal criminal acts, and I can assure you, from this day forward, we will never, ever forget: By this law, you have registered that the sole goal of special authorities is to crush the opposition. You're making this unwritten rule into writing. The task is to limit the jurisdiction of private authorities, which are an evil product in the democratic state of law, only to opponents. Look, you're legitimizing the illegal order, and you're very well projecting this law on the particulate and operational perspective of the people who did it. You create the privilege of committing crimes, you encourage crime, and you try to protect the Prime Minister's cosmic chamber, you're complicit in this crime. It's a crime shelter that destroys the law of the state, the law to protect some people from trial and accountability, the law to defy society's justice, the understanding of equality in the eyes of the law, and that's what you're doing to create the special class that you're doing in the first place. And when you say you're going to screw up the task you've been given, you're going to infiltrate the PKK, and you're going to have to force the PKK members into society, that's the law. As a ruling elder said, the judgment is too important to be left to judges. Democracy is just a tool for us. It's the law of implementing the motto. My observation as a politician, a rookie politician is that, with your permission, I would like to share: you've been caught unawares and you've found the only way to make such a shameful law. Because, you know, it's no different than Gladio now, what happened, what happened. You know you can't handle the truth when it's decrypted. And that's why you were afraid of unpublished books, because you saw yourself in those books. By burning the book that was not published on September 12th, which you said you were going to teach mercy, you have indeed received mercy, and you are afraid of this new September 12th, which you have created. In fact, you're afraid of what's written in that book you burned, and of what's not written. Look, do you have any idea of the crimes you've taken from those special officers? Now, those that the Prime Minister allows will violate the Constitution, divide and break our country, suspend freedoms, cooperate with the enemy, provoke war. Suppose your Prime Minister grants permission to stir up the country of his beloved brother Assad, perhaps to commit murder. Is that theoretically possible, lawyers? It's possible. With this law, foreign experts will be given special duties to the agents of Middle Eastern geography. Just as you sent your own propaganda team to Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, and gave open support for the strengthening of some parts and interfered with internal affairs, you're going to assign your special officers to who knows what duties in that geography. Aman, please, don't let it be like the duties given to Keslı, Yeşil, Mehmet Ali Agha. It was not the Prime Minister's special officers who planned to put us in terrorist positions, then listen, watch, peep, go out in the squares and poison the people with tape rumors. Who even informed the Prime Minister of our breathing? Were those who watched and listened to our house with expensive listening devices equipped with full-fledged wiretaps, the ones who followed us with cars and dark men every day? Once again, on this occasion, I hereby declare myself honored to be a militant of a cause, an idea, a principle, the rule of law. I wonder whose private officers were the militants of principle, gibbering and lying, listening like bugs in the dark corners, targeting decent people. I'm sorry you guys haven't been able to establish internal security or internal peace in ten years. It seems today that everything you've done, everything you've done, you've screwed up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0289par0243	You know all about that stuff.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0288par0244	It's the only thing we'd expect from those who tried to sell us the Minister's personal list as HSYK. Look, but believe me, and believe me, those who commit the crimes of the law will be questioned as well as those who commit them.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0289par0246	He's asking, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0290par0247	You'll get your turn, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0288par0248	From now on, both the MIT and the Prime Minister and you, the voters, are in doubt, you're in complete doubt, and you're not going to get away with it. Ten years back in our country and all the real unsolved murders in the coming period will now be marked as the perpetrators of all perpetrators and places. We will ask ourselves again and again who are the true perpetrators of Hrant Dink and the villagers who died in Uludere. You changed the name of the regime to Baas with invisible ink.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0291par0250	That's your job.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0288par0251	But do you think the last people to hear it will be the last people to hear it? Add the state secret law to your list, not worth it, folks! As you will name the killer, you will call it the government secret of murder, drugs, arms trafficking, and terrorism.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0292par0253	Please, finish your words.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0288par0254	You'll have special officers, government within the state. Do you know that your Baas regime, which has destroyed our rights and freedoms because of your mastery of complex matters, is seen in recent times, in recent geographys, and as the thinker says, one day will come to an end. If it is not pushed, no dictator will fall? We can help, too, by announcing what happened, by reopening what happened, and hoping for what might happen when these terrible, terrible winds change. Remember, under the sky...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0293par0255	Mr. Tarhan, don't...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0288par0256	The only thing that can shut me up is information, which you don't have, ma'am. Remember, under the sky, nothing is hidden anymore, especially in this day and age. (CHEERING) Nothing can be destroyed in the age of transparency, I'm so sorry! This dust, when the lies of forward democracy fall apart, it doesn't matter, but, yes, even the men, as they get thrown off the ship, they understand what's going on. In the name of reckoning with the Republic, it's in a hurry to tear the leaves of their own sin books, to destroy them, you're weak, you're cramped. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0294par0262	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0263	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0294par0264	Are you going to speak for your group, Mr. Aydın?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0265	I want word on behalf of our group.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0294par0266	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, of course, it's been a bit of a poem in a very emotional, very romantic setting here, but I really wanted to come and have a chat. Dear friends, in the democratic state of law, we are in no position to learn about the elements of the democratic state of law. And don't let some friends get up here and lecture us about the democratic state of law. Look, democratic law doesn't have coup plans. There are no Ergenekons in the democratic state of law, no sledgehammers, no gangs and no mafias.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0296par0272	There will be no plans with the PKK, no protocols, no Oslo.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0273	Look, you know what doesn't really happen in a democratic law state?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0296par0274	There's no going after a terrorist organization in a democratic law state.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0275	There's never a militant trial in the democratic state of law. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) It's an independent, completely neutral judiciary, legislation, execution, co-ordination and coordination, but a militant trial never happens, my friends.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0297par0276	Just like you, like the AKP.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0296par0277	Yeah, well, you don't!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0278	Dear friends, do you know what he said? For you, democracy is a tool, not a goal.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0297par0279	The Prime Minister said that, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0280	Yeah, democracy isn't the point for us. For us democracy is a tool, it's the welfare of our people, it's the welfare of our nation, it's the happiness of our nation, and that's what we're defending democracy for, for the welfare of the nation, for the happiness of the nation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0297par0282	You've built a fascist dictatorship in the country. Turn around, look at you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0283	Dear friends, in democracies, they come here, they talk here, but when they're talking about it, there's no more teasing than interference, there's no more taking up the bench here in the democracies. This is the people's stand, and everyone on this stand has to talk. You're going to talk about democracy, you're going to see questionable votes for a party that comes to power through democratic channels. You can't or you can't see this nation's votes suspiciously.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0298par0284	It's doubtful what you're doing, not people's votes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0285	Those who describe the public's votes in doubt can't call themselves Democrats. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) This nation said 34 percent, and as you did this opposition, it led us to 47 percent. As you continued your opposition, we became 50 percent. You keep this opposition going, you're on a good path, we'll keep going over 50 percent. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, don't speak of Hrants, or Ethyen Embarrassies, please. I think you should read the article "The Parasites" by Hrant, come and talk here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0299par0288	Bravo, Ahmet! You're going to say the Parasites of Hrant, the Parasites of Hrant. They're going to read that article!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0300par0289	What... protocol with pkk?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0290	Look, dear friends, here we are waking up like we're reinventing the world. Dear friends, what we're doing here is we're declaring a situation that is available. Was this the EC PARTY that took the MIT Law out in 1983 and put it into effect in 84? No. So, did this Law exist that day? I did. Are there any today? I do.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0301par0291	Tell me why you're changing it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0302par0292	Then why are you changing it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0293	Does the 26th article, currently existing, permit the Prime Minister to do so?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0303par0294	What gangs are you protecting? The bidding gangs?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0295	Does he give it to the Prime Minister? Yes, it does. But there are those who ignore it. You know, the one with the...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0303par0296	Ahmet, tell me which one you're with, tell me your name!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0295par0297	You know what they say? They have eyes, they don't see; they have ears, they don't hear. Whatever we do, you may not see, you may not hear, but here our nation sees us, our nation hears us, our nation applauds our services, our nation applauds our services.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0303par0299	We'll hear it, we'll announce it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0304par0300	You silenced Parliament TV to keep him from hearing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0305par0301	Get out on the street, leave the TVs.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0306par0302	Wait a minute, we're talking, we're talking like this, guys. I didn't speak so poeticly, perhaps fluently, but we have to speak the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0307par0303	You guys get organized, forget it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0306par0304	The MIT Act is being stormed by storms in a glass. However, and only we declare a situation that exists in red letters. See, this is what we call it, but every speaker who comes out speaks differently. We want everyone to see this situation. Again, dear friends, when we talk about democracy, when we talk about democratism, we say that the ritual is a business, you don't talk about it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0308par0306	That's right, that's right.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0306par0307	Turkey has raised the stakes in democracy with the EC PARTY. Turkey can talk to those who couldn't speak yesterday.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0308par0308	Of course, for him, Turkey is the 148th place!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0306par0309	We've broken the taboos, and these people are talking, talking, saying that you didn't have the courage to argue with us yesterday. The untouchables were touched at this time, and no one has immunity anymore. (CHP and MHP rows) Dear friends, no one has immunity.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0309par0310	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0306par0311	He has absolutely no immunity, and everyone, anyone who commits a crime, is being touched.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0310par0312	Mr. Ahmet, have you read the bill? Will you read the bill?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0306par0313	No one is free to commit a crime in this country anymore; no one, no one, is free to commit a crime. Look, this is an event we're talking about. We're talking about an intelligence agency.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0311par0316	Mr. President, you can't be so misled.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0312par0317	Mr. President, I mean...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0313par0318	Congressmans, please be quiet. Please listen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0312par0319	That's a lot to take in!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0320	Please be quiet and let's talk. We're declaring a subject that exists. We call it such a subject. It is a legitimate, reasonable issue.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0315par0321	You got your diploma at the grocery store?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0322	Look, you have to protect the future of this country; it's a matter of state. If someone in this country is infiltrating illegal organizations, if you're driving him to the front... you're driving a staff, an MIT officer to the front, go inside that organized crime organization, bring me information from there and share it with the authorities of the state. Look, we call it the fight against terrorism. Turkey has to fight effectively. It's one of the most important decisions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0316par0324	Is there something stopping this?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0325	It's one of the most important channels. If we're fighting gangs, gangs...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0316par0327	How'd you do it so far?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0328	And if we've achieved success in this struggle, I assure you, it's a matter of serious importance.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0317par0330	Why haven't you brought it in ten years?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0331	Dear friends, I know you're going to be uncomfortable, but please respect the speaker. Here, of course, as I listen to the speakers, I look back on one side, where was Turkey ten years ago, how was it today? I think in economics, I think in health, where did we come from in education, transportation?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0318par0333	The economy is so smooth! It's your time that's the most current. There's 80 billion dollars out there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0334	I'm looking at democracy... (CHP rows) I'm sorry, you have no right to say anything, so you have no right. During the one-party mentality, this country has already seen what it will see and lived. Now, the period is over; in this country, both the shepherd and the president are equal, and in this country, everyone is equal before the law. This country has now taken much further steps at the point of freedom and has to take them. So we set out on a journey. Whether you prevent it or you prevent it, we will take these freedoms to the end for the son of this country, and we will continue.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0319par0335	Don't be a porter, don't be a eunuch, tell me the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0320par0336	Where's the freedom in that? You interfere with the judiciary, where's freedom?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0337	We said, "Democratic expansion," we called it the National Union and Brotherhood Project, and we will bring all these projects with determination to the end, no matter what they call it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0319par0338	Don't be a porter, tell the truth!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0321par0339	Sir, can we put a polygraph on the stand?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0340	Yeah, we said that someone can feed on the ethnic problem, someone can feed on the regional problem, someone can feed on the religious problem, but our three red lines are. We're not going to feed on any problems, we're going to count all the children of this country, 75 million, we're going to count the seven areas.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0322par0341	When, when?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0342	We'll take services from education to health everywhere, without bringing them to justice. We will also fight to ensure that this country lives in a democratic environment that its people deserve.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0323par0343	That's what the fascists said in Germany!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0314par0344	I thank you all again, and I thank you, and I bid you good evening.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0324par0346	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0325par0347	Mr. President, would it be possible for the President to place a polygraph on this bench?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0326par0348	It's against regulations.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0325par0349	I mean, I think it'd be useful.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0327par0350	Mr. Vural... Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0328par0352	Mr. Aydın has obviously picked on our party.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0327par0353	I can't hear you for a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0328par0354	Ergenekon made a connection between our party and the coups, and he strongly insulted our party's corporate personality.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0329par0355	I said not in the democratic state.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0330par0356	You're a teenager, you're a coupger!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0329par0357	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I'd like to make a statement. There are no Ergenekons in the democratic state, no sledgehammers, and if it's being taken over by CHP, I can't say anything, but I didn't mention CHP's name.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0331par0358	You've addressed our group president.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0330par0359	Why don't you investigate the unsubs, Ahmet, if you have the heart to investigate them, because the unsubs depend on you, and there are many of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0332par0360	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0331par0363	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, there are no Ergenekons in democracies, no coups, no objections, but there are no judges in democracies who would vote if the government nominated the donkey. (CHP) So no donkeys and no state of law. So in democracies, they don't cut off from TRT 3.00. Nine minutes of my ten-minute speech were watched by our people, and the last minute stopped by a minute because it was 7:00 p.m. That's not what happens in democracies. In democracies, people's will is not under arrest. In democracies, eight MPs don't do time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In democracies, ordinary citizens of this country aren't afraid to talk on the phone. In the last two years, there's not a bureaucrat who can talk to me on the phone in three years, who can talk to opposition lawmakers on the phone. Leave the bureaucrats, the general managers, the undersecretaries...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0333par0367	They're not coming back, back.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0331par0368	...the garbageman, the bagel maker, the peasant, the worker, the retired, the marketer is calling to me and he says, "Valim, I'm going to see you, I'm at your office." Come on, tell me your problem, I'm in the village now, tell me your problem. No phone calls, he says. What do you do for a living? I'm a salesman, the marketer says. In democracies, the marketer doesn't get scared when he talks on the phone.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0334par0369	Respect that salesman's vote.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0331par0370	There are no arrested journalists in democracies. Democracy does not include Ali Dibo. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And the fox and the lion's bellies were hungry, and the fox said, "Come, let us enter this vineyard." The lion said, "This is the property of the people, and I have the decree, and we can eat all the grapes we want from there, brother lion." They went into the vineyard together, where the people's keeper came and beat the lion with a stick. Brother Tilki, we were hungry, and we had a good meal, and you had a decree? He said it's free to eat grapes from here. The fox said: "You can't read a decree in this dust, run away, brother and sister." This law you made, it's not gonna work. One day there will be dust in the elections, in the chest, in the square, looking for a hole to run into.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0335par0375	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0336par0376	When? When?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0331par0377	I'll see you...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0337par0378	We saw it in the squares, we saw it in the trunk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0338par0379	Please calm down. [[Continue]] Diyarbakır MP Leyla Zana. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Zana.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0339par0388	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Regents of our people, today is truly a historic day, shall we build our future on freedoms, or shall we carry on this empire of fear? For the past five months, I've been paying attention to the way this General Assembly has handled each and every member of the party, and I'm trying to listen, and I feel the need for understanding and understanding in my own way. I regret to say that it reminds me of the Soviet process, the language of the Cold War. Each shield threatens the other. Every opinion speaks of fear. Every condensed man tries to fire the other one, put someone in jail. We've been through all this in this country, we've been through this since the founding of the republic. This system, built on one language, one religion, one race, singleness, has made society what it is. When I was talking about fears, I thought of the late Saint, who had a book like this, to be afraid of fear. I suggest all MPs take this and read it. We create our own fears, and then we start to fear them. The irony of God's work and history is that yesterday's people were putting their heads on the pillow without wearing their sweatpants, Kurdish, Turkish, Arabic, left and right, in order to protect themselves from the wrath of an institutional field such as the National Intelligence, but let's face it, MIT now needs special law to free itself from fear. Tomorrow, another trial will do it, other corporate areas will do it. Whatever this country has suffered, it has drawn from privates and corporate personalities, private prosecutors, private institutions, private MITs, private and private.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0340par0392	And now Recep is withdrawing from the Special.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0339par0393	Now let's face it, Mr. CHP MPs: The first term of the AK PARTY is an admirable period. Why am I saying this? This republic, as victims of this system, the community held high hopes and saw this dynamism in the AK PARTY, the BDP, the CHP, the People's Appreciation. And you have to respect that appreciation because society is not dynamic, it's not static. He also saw this dynamism in the AK PARTY. The AK PARTY went well in the first term, so let's face it, the second term hesitated. He thought society would pause as much as he paused, but society is dynamic, not static, not static. Since the second term has been a static process, we are suffering from these trials and pains today. If society's expectations, society's hopes, society's future had been very well organized, if it could coordinate, we wouldn't have discussed it today. I'm also very curious to know, if the Kurdish problem is resolved, what will this Parliament discuss? We've spent the whole day, like, nine hours, ten hours on polemics. It's a shame about this community, it's a shame about all of us. Come on, we've exhausted ourselves, we've really consumed a generation by dealing with these kinds of problems. Let's feel sorry for the next generation, do what we have to do with our social and conscientious responsibilities. Who of us has the right to use this environment, this floor, to get so personal? No one has the right to do this to this country, no BDP, no MHP, no AK PARTY, no CHP. The vast majority, the silent majority, have no right to take tomorrow, to capture, to black out. We can't contain the sun, we can't hold the darkness in our hands, there's an absolute light leak. So let's not build the future on darkness. On the contrary, let's remove what's private and legal and open the way for this community together. You'll see that Turkey...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0341par0395	Please complete your statement. Here you go, Mr. Zana.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0339par0397	Mr. President, that means I'm full, I've got 20 years savings. No one and no force will stand in the way of this society. But as long as you turn it into a duel of words, and you don't solve your own internal problems, no one will be sorry, model, but we can set a bad example, so let's see, please. To power again, you're not facing history, you're facing history today. I personally, as a citizen of this country, as an individual of this country, as a Kurdish, as a oppressed party, am not a fan of internal strife blocking this country. The state must put aside the competition, with its safety, with its MIT, with its army, with its politics. The Kurdish problem is a problem above all politics. It should solve this problem, include all sides, and approach this problem with a conceptual, with a project. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If the AK PARTY has deceived society, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0342par0402	Thank you, Mr. Zana.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0339par0403	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0342par0405	On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Bulent Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0408	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have taken a personal pledge on the first amendment of the proposal. I salute you all. It's been a while, we're all tired, I'm short on time. If you'll bear with me - five minutes - I'll make a few brief points and leave you in peace. My dear friends, we're discussing a special law of one of the intelligence agencies, considered an important institution of leading states with historical buildup. We're talking about a special arrangement far beyond our political claims, far beyond our basic political judgments, where our national responsibility should be greater, with respect, mentalism, and the cold mind ahead. We want there to be no more bloodshed in this country, so that what happens in this country doesn't happen again, ever again. So these ambitious, ancient states, the institutional harmony between them is as important as the separation of institutions, so the more important the separation of forces is, the more important the harmony of forces in law states is, the more important it is. My dear friends, if in a country an employee of that intelligence agency can't go on a mission trusting his government, then shame on that country! Friends who oppose this arrangement...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0344par0412	What, they haven't been able to go on a mission in years?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0413	I've got five minutes, not long...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0344par0414	No MIT for how many years?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0415	Don't the friends who oppose this arrangement know that in this country, any officer, any government official, has already been questioned under the permission of his superior?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0344par0416	They were lying there, we were giving them money for nothing! You're insulting me!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0417	Don't they know that friends who object are being tried by the head of the population in this country, that they're being questioned under the permission of the head of the deed when they're being tried?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0344par0419	Members of the MIT, they're calling you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0345par0420	They're lying there!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0421	Look, dear friends, on this bench our friends from the opposition party have insisted that we are being interrupted. I complain to the nation, my friends, and I complain that there is no danger that opposition will be cut off in this House, there is no danger that there is power. I've been watching all morning, everyone's talking, what you're saying, what you're saying, sometimes we're enjoying it, sometimes we're sad, but 300 friends are enjoying it, and they're proud to listen. A ruling party deputy comes out, a minister comes out, you start screaming at the first minute.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0344par0422	Because he's not telling the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0423	What kind of respect is that, what kind of understanding? Is that your idea of democracy? [[Applause from the AK PARTY lines, noise from CHP and MHP rows]] Look, if an opposition party deputy says that the opposition is breaking up. I'm telling you, God will strike! You're already getting hit by people, you're getting hit by every election, God hits you! You know why? Look, I'm a member of the Justice Commission, not nine hours -- one, two, three, nine hours -- only the opposition spoke, my friends, and one ruling party deputy didn't take the word.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0346par0427	Why, don't you have a say?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0428	To listen...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0346par0429	Why don't you talk?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0430	But if you are patient, you will not understand. I'm saying, they talked for nine hours, we wanted the opposition to talk, we wanted to calm down, we had the wrong information, we wanted to tell the truth, it was 12:00 in the end of nine hours, and we left. He came to the General Assembly this morning, and you've been talking all morning.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0347par0431	It's not like we're talking and it helps!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0343par0432	Mr. Bekir Bozdağ left in the first minute. Ahmet Aydın Bey left at the first minute. Once again, I complain that there is a danger in this House that the voice of the opposition will not be silenced, but that the voice of power will be silenced, my friends. My dear friends, look, I can't get technical because you won't let me, but TCK 250, 251... [[Noises from CHP rows]] Mr. President, I invite you on duty.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0348par0436	Go ahead, don't answer, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0349par0437	Yeah, this isn't a sit-down, it's not a wiretap!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0348par0438	Congressmans, listen quietly.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0350par0439	Law officers number 4483 are in the process of trial and a general arrangement. TCK 250, 251 is special. The MIT Law is even more specific, and we didn't take out the MIT Law, and friends were there in 1983. We want to correct the possibility of a wrong execution, correct the possibility of a wrong approach. You'll call the Prime Minister of this country, you'll say all kinds of insults, but we won't open our mouths. But one thing we trust is that we trust in God, and then we trust in our nation. Look, yesterday's Milliyet newspaper. When you cry out, "Indeed, it is you who are lost." CHP's vote has been reduced to 26 per cent, and you can still land. (CHP rows) Look in a mirror, take a look, take a look. We want to talk together, make a deal. It's business. Look, I have ten pages of text, I couldn't speak again, I couldn't say it again. I don't know what happens with 20 percent and a group that's so aggressive, 50 percent! (AK PARTY Applause, CHP rows) So democracy...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0351par0444	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0350par0446	... The EC will be strengthened with PARTI, and stronger, and stronger in spite of you, and stronger with the support of our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You all know that this arrangement is a reasonable arrangement. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0352par0451	Applause!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0353par0452	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0354par0453	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0353par0454	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0354par0455	Mr. President, Mr. Orator is a group that is so aggressive with 20 percent of the time. He said, "He insulted our group." We're not an aggressive group. I want to answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0355par0456	Mr. President, every time our orator comes out, it's about picking on every word he says. I don't understand this. How do you use this Charter? Please remain objective, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0353par0457	Mr. Gardendoor, you always need the same right.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0355par0458	We use those rights in accordance with our rights in the Civil Code. We'd like you to direct opposition parties in the same way. You can't be so touchy.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0353par0459	Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0356par0463	Thank you. Members of parliament, one of the world's top ten oldest parties, the Republican People's Party, is not a party where seven people come together to apply for petitions and stamp stamps to the Ministry of Interior. Look, I'm telling you for the last time. That's right, that's right, you've been successful in the election for ten years, that's right. This dear brother, there once was an ANAP here, he was cutting his knife on both sides with 300 MPs, and he left, and you're going to go, but the Republican People's Party is standing up. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, I'll tell you this, and I'll tell you again what people don't hear, and I won't tell you again. Look, if you're proud of your election success, for the last time, there's a zucchini seed at the bottom of a mighty tree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0357par0468	Yeah, we've heard it 10 times, that's all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0356par0469	You tell me 10 times, I'll tell you 10 times. The zucchini seed fell, came in a month, reached the height of the sycamore, started making fun of the sycamore. Look, you've been like this for a hundred years, I've been like this in a month.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0357par0471	Don't tell me what's going on.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0356par0472	Chinar said to him, "Hele, let one winter come, and his hair begins to fall, and I will see you. When winter comes, the gourd will come down. I don't know, people think you're pumpkins, you're pumpkins. How would anyone know that? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, look, ten years in people's lives is a long time, ten years in society is a short time. We're celebrating you for your success, so don't worry, we're not saying anything, but don't worry, the only party sitting here is when you fall into the fate of the Homeland Party after 83. You won't last 80 years, 90 years like us. Imagine a party that hasn't been in power for years, but it's not falling apart, it's standing up. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, you guys, when you're out of power, you're out in a week, in a week! You'll scatter in a week! It's the blessings of power that keep you together, glued together like glue. Think of the opposition, you'll have 20 parties. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0358par0480	Thank you, Mr. Tünce.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0359par0481	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0358par0482	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0359par0484	Thank you, Mr. President. I especially want to ask... of course, the Republican People's Party was the only party, for a period of time, for a long time, to run this country as one party, one state. Let's put aside this party's contribution to this country, and let alone its troubles with this country. I just want to ask, dear friends, how many times has the Republican People's Party been in power alone after this one-party rule, after the multi-party life? That's what I'm asking. (CHP rows) You're one party, you'll go 60 years again, friend, there's no other party in the country. But after the multiparty took over, people saw you, they saw the others, they won't take you back to power, people. This nation will never bring you back to power. Know him well. Know him well, think of him, and if you still go with that old head of yours from 80 years ago, as I said, this nation will never bring you to power again, that's all. Secondly, don't shrink people's votes. The people thought you were the people, but you went out. True, the people are the judges, and the people make the decisions, and what the people say is true. If you, too, one day, take your course out of the Silivri and fall in the way of the nation, then you too can get somewhere. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Dear friends, don't underestimate this nation. Don't underestimate these people. Once every four years, every five years, the polls have always made the right decision, and if we're in power at 50 percent, why didn't the other 50 percent vote for us? But you're still down, you're not even doing his books. For God's sake, look into it, look into it. Why can't you come to power? Take a look at this. The main opposition in democratic countries is the candidate for power in the next election, one of the most trilateral ruling candidates, but there is no such main opposition in Turkey, unfortunately.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0360par0489	You are servants to the dominant forces.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0359par0490	It's a good opposition to the AK PARTY, but I'm afraid I can't say it's a good opposition to this country. We want a project-building, responsible opposition, dear friends, for the country. If the AK PARTY is going to lose, we want proper opposition here again. We want an opposition that can not only ignore, not only criticize, but produce projects at its proper time, create ideas for the sake of this country's people, for the welfare of this nation, for the right people, for the peace of this nation, that can say no to wrongs.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0361par0492	You weren't swept into the hole, you were used.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0359par0493	Look, it's fine with us. We'll continue to be in power after opposition like you do, but I suggest you turn your direction towards the nation, and then maybe you'll come to some place, and I'll thank you again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0362par0496	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0363par0497	Mr. President, Mr. Aydın said that during the Republican People's Party, the only party was the state. The only party was the only state, he said. Are you a one-party multi-government now? Let them fix him.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0359par0499	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0364par0500	You're so state-of-the-art!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0365par0501	Congressmans, that's enough. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0359par0502	Mr. President, the presidents of the CHP were governors of that province, and they ruled all the institutions of that province. That's what I meant.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0365par0503	Everyone knows everything very clearly, sir. [[Continue]] There is a motion on the matter in accordance with Article 72 of the Civil Code. I read the motion: Under Article 72 of the Civil Code, we propose that the matter negotiations continue. Talks should continue on the material that undermines the rule of law, legitimizes the rule of law over the rule of law, establishes an illegal parallel state outside the state structure, intervenes in the judiciary, leads to gangisation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0366par0516	Sir, we need enough numbers for a meeting.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0365par0517	You're requesting roll call. I'll meet the roll call. Mr. Vural, Mr. Şanırmak, Mr. Yılmaz, Mr. Right, Mr. Durmaz, Mr. Ozturk, Mr. Halaçoglu, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Illum, Mr. Kalajcı, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Yeniçeri, Mr. Demirel, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Adan, Mr. Erdoğan, Mr. Ayhan, Mr. Öz. I'll give you a minute. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since we're doing roll call, we have the list where I'm going to ask our lawmakers to go back into the system for the QA, but it's out of the system, so I'm going to make a commitment by keeping an eye on it. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0367par0532	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, this bill -- as it is known -- is the Prime Minister's law to protect certain private officials. What is the scope of these special tasks? Who, at what date, were given special assignments? Do you intend to inform the Grand National Assembly of Turkey about these special officers in a closed session? Are you ready for this? Can this information be made available today? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0368par0535	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0369par0537	Mr. President, thank you. It's a law on MIT. So I'd like to ask more than one minister. Question 1: Did the MIT people join the establishment of the ACK? Question 2: DID the MlTISTs give the Kandil (Kandil) instructions for action? Question 3: DID the MITists promise to free Ocalan? Question 4: DID the METians promise to evacuate the ACK? Did the MIT people work for the establishment of Kurdistan? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0370par0545	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Cihaner...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0371par0547	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is: Justice Minister Dolmabahçe had a private meeting with Deputy Prosecutor Fikret Elekret, who conducted the investigation into İstanbul ACK in Dolmabahçe and the investigation against MIT officials two days ago. Is this meeting right, what's it about? If we were to ask for a similar appointment, could we receive such an interview in private? There have been incredible leaks in other investigations, even arrest warrants have been issued before the warrant has been issued, and testimony has been served before confidential witnesses have left the courthouse. Do you think you can open up an investigation into all of this and have the prosecutors there removed their jurisdiction? Your own ministers said that the process can't only be explained forensically, that a closed-circuit system is dominated by justice and security. Do you intend to expose this system? Why would the Uludere investigation be investigated by the special authorities of the state's attorney's office...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0372par0553	Thank you, Mr. Cihaner. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0373par0555	Thank you, Mr. President. The public tenders found that the Public Contraction Agency had not done its duty and that it was corruption. Public tender Law 4734 has been changed 18 times since 2003. The Republican People's Party has not been taken into account, as it has always been, to warn and determine that changes made by civil society institutions and rooms will lead to corruption, with exceptions and exemptions and grounds for irregularities and corruption. Who is responsible for corruption? The government has adopted the form of irresponsible authority in all matters, placing responsibility on the opposition, the foreign forces and the state that it co-operates with. Will you now expand your authority and avoid the responsibility asked in the MIT Law? Is that what the state does?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0372par0557	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0374par0559	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to inform the General Assembly about something. When the ruling party had just spoken of the first Sarkaya, Farhat Sarıkaya, most of the friends probably didn't know about it -- then Cemil Cicek of Justice was acting as Minister of Justice, Deputy Minister Fahri Tornado. Therefore, know this, and approach it that way. Secondly, I'd like to ask the Minister of Justice that the investigation is now being investigated on grounds of a breach of confidentiality. How do you know the investigation was compromised as an executive? You don't make it work. Did that file come to you? How do you know there's some information leaked to the press, how do you know the prosecutor leaked it? If the file came to you, how do you intervene as an executive body? Are you receiving any other files like this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0375par0563	Thank you, Mr. Original. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0565	Mr. Scholar Light asked me a question about the special staff. Of course, there have been many criticisms from our dear friends regarding the special officer expressed in this proposal of the law. With those reviews taken into account, I believe there was a motion for a change. It is said that they will be chosen from among the public officials. Of course, a public servant is a citizen, there's no way he's a stranger. Of course, it's not everyone, it's just people who are going to get one of these when they're given a job like this from the public. And when the Prime Minister does such an assignment, he will do so within the Constitution and within the law, because both in the Constitution and in the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0377par0566	Who's been assigned special duties so far?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0567	...things about what to do have a clear taste and...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0377par0568	Can you tell me who's been assigned special duties so far?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0569	I don't have any information on that right now, and if I did, I'd share it with you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0378par0570	There's no crime, there's duty. You said it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0571	Mr. Halman talked about some information about MIT and ACK, and some things about the press, in action. We've also expressed in our discussion that accusing the PKK of building a terrorist organization or ACK terror organization is a great injustice and a great slander because those who want to wear off the National Intelligence Agency have tried to pin on him, not on some of the actions the terrorist organization has set up, but on many actions as if the National Intelligence Agency had done it. We see this kind of news, this kind of interpretation as an indicator of these efforts, and it's a smear campaign. These are the questions of this campaign at some point. Because it's all slander, there's no answer to that, because it's slander.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0379par0573	Are you a prosecutor or a minister?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0574	Has Mr. Cihaner been in contact with Fikret Chosen in Dolmabahçe? Did he have any leaks in other cases? He had questions about issues like this. Of course, I'll pass these questions on to the Minister. I don't know if he's in a meeting like this right now, so if the Minister is watching, he's heard it, and the officers are here, and they'll deliver it to the Minister, and I hope he gets an answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0380par0576	Perhaps the authorities know, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0577	On the other hand, about the leaks... of course, about the prosecutors or at the moment... how does the Minister of Justice know about this? It is also: There is a press statement from the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors on this issue: dated 14/2/2012: (The People have agreed to submit a motion to the Chairman of the Board to be appointed to investigate the investigation into Sadrettin Sarıkaya due to various allegations of information and documents involving members of the National Intelligence Agency officers in the press as a result of a breach of the secrecy of the investigation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0381par0579	The Minister of Justice is appointing the president of the Inspection Board.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0580	The Minister of Justice isn't doing this himself, the board, you know, in the new configuration, the relevant agency there has the Minister of Justice's authority to allow the Minister of Justice to make an offer about this, or the Minister of Justice has the right to do such a thing. There is no constitutionally or legally possible for him to give instructions. And it turns out that from the board, such a, or rather a relevant agency, the President of the Board of Justice is going to the Minister of Justice with such a vote, and that's how the Minister of Justice decides to review it. If he does not, he will be subject to a separate criticism on a unanimous decision.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0381par0581	It's not an app so far. It's the first time it's happened. He's getting a hand job.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0376par0582	Of course, there is a question from Mr. Kaleli. Of course, I took Mr. Kaleli's question as more than a question, rather as sharing his opinion. Both the General Assembly and the public heard his opinion. I thank all the friends who ask separately.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0382par0584	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are seven motions on matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival first, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that State Intelligence Services 2/3 will be replaced by "responsibility" in Article 26 of the Article 1 under which the Law Proposal is replaced by Article 1 in the framework. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend the change in the Law on State Intelligence Services 164 rows and National Intelligence Service Act on the framework 1 th clause of the Law Proposal to be changed in the following way. Article 1-01.11.1983, and Article 26 of Article 26 of State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Service Act 2937, have been changed as follows. Article 26-MIT members or those appointed by the Prime Minister to carry out a specific mission are bound by the Prime Minister's permission to be investigated for the crimes they committed during the nature of the mission or during the execution of the mission, or for the alleged crimes they committed, according to the first statement of Article 5271 of Article 250 of the Law, for the alleged crimes committed in the field of duty." 164 Orders of Law Proposal 1. We propose that the following amendment be made in the matter. Article 26 depends on the Prime Minister's permission to prosecute members of the MIT for crimes committed during the nature of their mission or for alleged acts of duty. Congressmans, since the four motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read four proposals of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 1st Amendment in 164 rows. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal. Does the Commission agree with these motions that I've been reading separately?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0383par0604	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0382par0605	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0384par0606	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0382par0607	Mr. Vural, are you going to speak for the motion?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0385par0608	Mr. Halaçoglu will speak, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0382par0609	Mr. Halaçoglu, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0386par0611	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't want to address your conscience, I don't want to address your rationality, I don't want to address your respect for the law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0387par0612	Then don't come back to us!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0386par0613	Then what are you doing here? As a matter of fact, I have a job: Your law -- please listen carefully -- will put the institution, which you think is good, into a very bad position. Consider: After this, every event that is to be taken out, let's say, the matter of Uludere, and every event that comes into your mind will then be placed on the MIT. It's inevitable. Whatever you do, you can't give up on public opinion anymore, it's out of your hands. You'll take responsibility for this, remember that. History will make it, but you will regret it, especially before long. In fact, it's a very important institution to Turkey that someone has been constantly saying that MIT has a hand. He will say, "It's just like the appearance of Hezbollah." It doesn't matter if there are changes. If you pass such a law, if you take it out illegally, you will carry its burden because it is not the 26th article, because it is the issue because it is the Prime Minister's permission that exists under the 26th Amendment, not just the members of the MIT, but the bureaucrats as well. All of us, many of us, have done this bureaucratic work. There is no investigation against persons without the Prime Minister's permission, but you must appeal to the State, and then you will only be allowed to investigate. So it's not that, it's the 250th article you want to subtract. Therefore, a certain prosecutor will be able to control the prosecutors and courts with the extraordinary powers that you have issued again. You made that mistake, and now you're just trying to fix it at MIT. These will be no different from the royal courts you've been complaining about in the past. That's what you'll see in action and consequences. Please, everyone put your hands on your conscience, and let no one lower the MIT to that degree, it is a pity, it is a necessary organization for this country. As I said, how much influence does the MIT have in Uludere, how much influence does it have in Habur, how much influence it has in other matters, from asking for autonomy, I don't know, who organized them, how much they are involved, and will be questioned by this people tomorrow. No one can handle it, neither can you, and there's no point in saying "I wish." Look, not only in this world, but also in the afterlife, you will see your responsibility to God. No one has given you the right to make this society what it is. You all have a certain responsibility, just as other institutions have a responsibility. Everyone, every institution, serves in their own responsibilities. The responsibility, in fact, is such a heavy burden on the Prime Minister that his decisions will be placed on him after that, and so will history. No one can avoid it. I repeat, any decision you make here, any vote you raise, any vote you vote, will answer to you tomorrow. Whether you give or not, it's up to you. You're all grown-up, valuable people; the rest is up to you. I'm warning you, as a scientist, not a politicalist. He didn't say that tomorrow. No one should say that. I'd be saying that in the presence of God tomorrow. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0388par0618	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Gürkut Acar... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0389par0622	Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, we need to take a look at what needs this offer came from. A prosecutor said: "There are criminals in the MIT. Look, it's not as a personal opinion of a prosecutor, it's after a lot of arguments. And friends -- they said a few days ago -- we're investigating MIT personnel who are suspected of committing crimes, not negotiations by Deputy Prosecutor Fikret, but by the government's policies. So a prosecutor doesn't go out and do it on his own. It is said that our men should be untouchable men and do the work of the Prime Minister. My dear friends, this is a very conflicting situation with AKP's policies, its promises in the past. Look, let me remind you that you prepared the Strategy for Increased transparency and Enhancing Anti-Corruption, you prepared it, and you made a commitment there. What did you pledge? You said we would remove the system of permission for public officials to be investigated. You said we would not protect them in these investigations, we would not protect them in corruption. But with this law, you are now building a new legal shield, and the name of this law is not the law of changing the MIT Law, but the Prime Minister's people's law. It's a special, special, very special law. Friends here have said so many times with violence. And I say, as a lawyer for thirty-nine years, my dear friends, this is not the road, this is not the way, this is not the way; I am seriously warning you as a lawyer and as a politician. And don't rely so much on your majority, my dear friends, often it's not permanent, and don't make a mockery of the Republican People's Party's vote by pushing and pushing and underestimating. Of the four people in this country, one of them was voted by the Republican People's Party, and remember that. My dear friends, look, let me tell you about a mistake you've made here as a party. If you recall, the D.A.'s office has written an article on the fact that the staff and former M.S.I.S. executives were arrested after they called for testimony. There's no record of these people being arrested or taken to court in the past week. Any change in your decision to arrest these people? Does he still exist in his legal state? No. Or do we not know if these people have been brought to trial? They haven't been removed. If the arrest warrant is valid, why haven't these people been found or captured? Or have police and prosecutors decided to wait until this law is released from Turkey's Grand National Assembly and published in the President's approval and the Official Gazette? Is such a waiting period legal? You've obviously broken the law, and you're still breaking it. My dear friends, look, you've arrested the Chief of Staff, you've arrested him, you've arrested him, you've arrested him, you've arrested him, you've arrested him in the Supreme Court of the Constitution, and yet he's decided to be arrested in court as the Supreme Court, and yet you've been silent here, you've been silent, and you've been silent, but now it's turned to you because you've been sent to talks in Oslo, and that special representative of yours. Then you made him Undersecretary of MIT, and now you're trying to protect him in a hurry because you know that his testimony will directly connect the Prime Minister. My dear friends, look, I'm warning you from here that in the Lighthouse case, you are in fact a prisoner of the public conscience. You couldn't even stand our friend here with a lighthouse and a flashlight in his hand. Because the people have condemned you on your conscience as AKP, protecting the defendants in the lighthouse case. Now, I'm telling you from here, this time you're going to be convicted once again by this law. So if it's my fault, I'll protect it, and if it's your fault, it's the right prison; it's not understanding, my dear friends. Yes, Turkey is very public in...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0390par0630	Thank you, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0389par0631	Sir, I'm finishing. My dear friends, after these warnings, let me end with this:
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0390par0633	Thank you, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0389par0634	Have a nice day, my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0390par0636	Thank you. Zonguldak MP Ali İhsan Kokturk... Here you go, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0391par0640	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, on a decision made by special prosecutor and special authority court, we are immediately discussing a special law proposal, which has been referred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has been brought down to the agenda of the Justice Commission with a heavy violation of the Civil Charter provisions, leaving the open provisions of our Constitution, and which is not even possible to be discussed. On the other hand, while this bill is being discussed, our elected MPs, our university chancellors, our Chief of Staff, ▪ We ask for free education. Our students, the press members who are trying to carry out the duty of public information, thousands of citizens of our soldiers and civilians are under arrest by special authority courts. The lengthy arrest warrants issued by special authorities have ceased to be isolated, has become systematic, and, in fact, the European Court of Human Rights has condemned our country 440 times since 2009, in the face of these lengthy arrest warrants that constitute a severe human rights violation. Dear friends, I'd like to ask you: What is the reason why this special law proposal is brought to the point of legalisation in four or five days, while law proposals are being held on the dusty shelves of the Assembly to limit long-term arrests, to prevent illegal practices in private authorities' courts? Is the bidder the congressman's weight in the House? Or is it because the congressman, the bidder, is a man of protection? Or is the arrangement in the context of the proposal we're discussing a more immediate and immediate problem with other issues of conscience in our country? Dear friends, I ask you: what are the actions, the actions of the government's ministers, which immediately brought this proposal to Parliament's agenda, in which the prosecutor's office has been removed from work and has been assigned by the prime minister to commit a crime, linking the investigation with the Prime Minister's permission of the Prime Minister, and trying to escape the judiciary and public opinion, in the case of panic? Why, until yesterday, when the MPs, the Chief of Staff, the MIT officers in Erzincan, were arrested, everyone was equal to the law, they did the justice work. People who said, all of a sudden today, when it comes to MIT Undersecretary Fidan, Taner and the Sun, they jumped up and took down the special prosecutor. Why did they suddenly take out police officers, police chiefs, out of work, out of duty? Dear friends, I'm curious here, and I'm asking if the government's consciences have been aching. Do government officials, who have closed their eyes on all past events, remember that they have a conscience? Of course, that's an optimistic thought. We all know that thought is out of the question. Dear friends, we all know that today and this legal arrangement is an effort to quickly cover up an investigation that touches high hills. It seems that even deep-state representatives of the past can't even think of bringing it to Parliament, but it's being tried to shut down a criminal investigation that runs to the top of the government through a gang law that clearly violates the Constitution, which is impossible to assess within the norms of the legal state. Again, it is clear that the reason why the power representatives are so panicked is the magnitude and urgency of the fire, as it is clear from the allegations of the prosecution and information that leaked to the press. I would like to warn the esteemed AKP lawmakers and ministers: Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, know that you cannot even remove the prints and witnesses of this grave painting that goes all the way to Fizan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0392par0650	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0391par0651	I want you to know that the people who helped turn our country into a fire station...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0392par0652	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Our motions are five minutes...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0391par0654	Sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0392par0655	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0391par0656	Finally, Mr. President, I have only one sentence, which is Ahmet Aydın. I'd like to address Mr. Ahmet Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0393par0657	Mr. President, the time for conversation is over.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0392par0658	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0391par0659	Mr. Aydın, there are other duties to the Republican People's Party for the future of our country as well as to be the ruling Republican People's Party.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0392par0660	Mr. Kokturk, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0391par0661	But know that you don't sweep us out of the hole.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0392par0663	Mr. Kokturk... İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder... Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0394par0666	Mr. President, valued members, today this country has lost its Academy Award to win a movie in the future. I'm not kidding, it's not a joke. I'll tell you about it on the next motion, and I'm already reporting it. This won't fit in five minutes, because I think I have five minutes to save it for ten minutes, and I'll tell you something else. As a nation, the people of Turkey had the ability to learn from disasters, so away from homes, there was an earthquake, and we all learned that geology had all of its inputs. There are only 20 or so constitutional lawyers in this country. A constitutional debate has begun, and if you really go to any village coffee, they can tell you about a chronology that began with the Syndicate Alliance. That's how we learn about this country's secret, dirty business. Everyone's become an intelligence expert. What intelligence organizations are, what they're not, how they work, what they do, what they don't do, that's how we learn about them. However, Congressmans, I would like to ask you to step down from this bench... Dear Lamb, I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0395par0669	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0394par0670	You're a puritan, no offense.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0395par0671	None taken, none taken.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0394par0672	Now, I said something here, and I said, "You don't know about loss, we don't know." Remember, a week ago or two weeks ago, our strategists had done a lot of calculations, and I said again: "In politics, all the accounts are rational, the results are irrational." Look, here they come, as a nation. Why? Because openness is freedom. Any oxidation, mold, dirt, rust settles in the closed space. So, on this occasion, once again, what would prevent this people from speaking to you without any complications of Parliament and politics, the only institution that has not taken initiative in this bleeding wound? We'd like to come together so that our children can return to their homes without even thinking about it, so that mothers and fathers can rest their heads on the pillow. And finally -- I'm a little unprepared, so I'm emptying out, and I'm sorry -- I'm going to say that there's one thing on these TVs that I'm very uncomfortable with: strategists. If you beat up a strategist in the country, you'll make a living, that's all there is to it. A lot of institutes were founded, when they evolved, what schools did they study in. You're looking at the man, the Kurdish expert, who didn't listen to a song of a Kurdish song, didn't listen to a lullaby, didn't sit at someone's table, got up and got up. Look what happened to those who followed their minds today. There are indeed signs for those who see. Finally, Mr. General Assembly, if there's nothing to talk about in five minutes, it can become quite a lot of time. Finally, I'd like to say that it's very important that Mr. Leyla Zana has just spoken here, Your Honors, this is important. He was able to talk for five minutes, why? There's a ban on politics.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0396par0675	Six minutes...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0394par0676	Six minutes, and the count goes away. He was able to speak for six minutes, and all the MPs listened very carefully. You know why? There's a ban on politics. You're sending it to parliament. You can't go to a political party. If it did, we'd talk for ten minutes on behalf of our group, we'd be more insurgents. If you're going to draw attention to the illegalities of this country, don't keep it out of sight. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He's about to meet at the Oscar speech. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0397par0682	Thank you, Mr. Commander. I submit the motions and submit them to your votes: those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motions have been rejected. 164 Orders of Law Proposal 1. We propose and supply the following changes in the matter. Oktay Ozturk and his friends. Article 26 depends on the Prime Minister's permission to prosecute members of the MIT for crimes committed during the nature of their mission or for alleged acts of duty. Does the Commission agree with this motion I'm reading?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0398par0690	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0397par0691	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0399par0692	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0397par0693	For motive...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0400par0694	Mr. President, wait a minute... I had a motion.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0397par0695	Now, members of lawmakers, there is a motion in accordance with Article 70 of the Civil Charter, which I have submitted to you to discuss this motion in closed session. I'm reading this motion for closed session: We would like to ask that the Prime Minister's proposal be discussed by lawmakers of the MHP Group, who have provided the proposal for the special task, be held in closed session under Article 70.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0401par0705	Mr. President, there can't be a closed session motion like that. Closed session motions are granted, further talks may be requested closed. Look, Mr. President, when you look at Article 70, the closed session motion, which is the closed session motion, can be given on condition that this motion be discussed, not on the basis of any particular issue, but on the closed session. Therefore, the motion cannot be closed for an exclusive motion, Mr. President. The reason, Mr. President, is that the General Assembly has to decide to leave the closed session. If you accept such a motion to discuss it automatically, Mr. President, it requires that you exit it automatically, but in order to exit the closed session, you have to decide according to the final joke of Article 70. Therefore, a closed session motion can be submitted, but cannot be submitted for the motion.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0402par0708	Now he's asked for a closed hearing to explain his motive, Mr. President Canikli.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0401par0709	Mr. President, he's giving a closed session motion to discuss the motion, which is to discuss his own motions, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0403par0710	I can't explain the reason right now because I've submitted a closed session motion, or I'll be prosecuted.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0402par0711	So that's why he gave the motive. I'll put it to a vote.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0404par0713	Mr. President, let me put it this way, sir, let's say that a closed session motion has been submitted to negotiate that particular motion.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0405par0714	Once the motive is eliminated, it's over.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0404par0715	Technically, Mr. President, I'm fully technically considering such a procedure. Now...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0405par0717	Sir, Mr. Group Vice President is wrong to talk about this.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0404par0718	No, sir, we talk all the time.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0405par0719	You'll make these objections in closed session.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0404par0720	Mr. President, can we automatically leave the General Assembly after this motion is discussed?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0406par0721	Mr. Canikli, I'll vote, and if you agree, we'll have a closed session anyway, or there won't be a closed session.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0407par0723	You'll be in closed session.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0408par0724	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0409par0725	Mr. President, there's no vote during the closed session, but we need a vote on the exit.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0410par0726	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0409par0727	I'm just saying, sir, when the motion is made only for the motion, then will the motion be completed automatically or not? Why? The last joke of article 70 is very clear. So he says it can be given, but it can't be submitted as a motion, so it can't be given to negotiate the motion.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0411par0728	Why? No, that's not a limit.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0410par0729	Then you can go out if you want, Mr. Canicli, I just wanted to say that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0412par0730	We can have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0410par0731	Please, the procedure debate, the closed session...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0413par0732	There's no need to argue, sir. That's all there is to talk about in closed session.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0410par0733	Yeah. Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0413par0735	We've made a very important request. If you'll excuse me, I won't explain the reason here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0414par0736	Okay, explain, I'm not saying anything to him.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0413par0737	I mean, I can explain it on the sidelines.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0415par0738	Members of parliament, members of the General Assembly, who may be present in closed session, must go outside, except for the members of the General Assembly. I'd like to ask your supervisors to ensure that the hall is cleared. I also submit to your votes that under oath stenographers and sworn officers remain in the halls: those who accept... those who refuse... I mean, not without a record, I guess.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0416par0742	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0417par0743	We couldn't hear you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit05spe0415par0744	...accepted. Yes, begin processing, please. Yes, we'd like to clear the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please step outside. We're going to closed session.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0418par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. [[Continue]] We will continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 164. The commission and the government are in place. Mr. Reshad Right and his friends' motion was read on the first article of the proposal. To explain his motion, Mr. Right. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0419par0013	Mr. President, members of the law, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have submitted on Article 1 of Law Proposal No. 164. I salute the High Council. Today, of course, we see a classic AKP classic again. We're all trying to break a law here, like the bag of laws that have been passed in the past, in accordance with their own wishes and interests. Of course, here, basically, the law we're negotiating is a very important law. Here, at the point of our country's national interests, an institution lies under a shadow of a doubt, in a phrase. There must be some facts about this. Regarding that, the closed session, which was just given by our Group Chairman Oktay Vural Sir, was a fundamentally important opportunity. We didn't take that opportunity. So it's said here that there are some issues that need not be kept secret, that need to be kept secret, or that need to be explained about. So the Grand National Assembly of Turkey needs to know about this, that the MPs, the representatives of our nation, need to know these issues clearly and clearly, but I would like to say that, in connection with the closed session, that the closed session was rejected by the AKP MPs, that I did not take it normal. Of course, there are some very important allegations being said here. A head of the MIT is now in charge. Of course, there's a lot of rhetoric about the MIT. There's a lot of rhetoric about the past. These, of course, should be known by lawmakers. Our people have a lot of questions, and they need answers. Look, as the National Movement Party, we'd like to ask the following questions. These, of course, need to be answered clearly and clearly by government officials. We want to know whose involvement and contribution has been involved in the planning of the ACK. Did the government personally open up the front of the ACK to allow separatist militants and even the bandit on the mountain to move to politics and legitimize it, knowingly condone their disruptive and destructive activities? Does Prime Minister Erdogan know anything about the establishment of the CENT? Or do government officials know about such a thing? The state established the PKK. Are slanders an idea of whether to conceal or destroy evidence of the AKP's motive? Is there a consensus on the establishment of the so-called Kurdistan, the release of the Imran prisoner, the providing of guarantees on constitutional solutions, and the use of the PKK's mountain staff as police force? Look, there's a lot of serious talk about Oslo talks. So there have been various discussions about the very important situation of our country, and these talks are now in question. I wonder if the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should at least be informed clearly about this. So that's an opportunity you can't miss. I believe that within the next period of time, there will be a request for a closed session, and then a closed session of this will be accepted, and we, you, will be using that authority in accordance with the powers that our nation has given us. Again, even though the National Intelligence Agency had already learned the timing and manner of the bloody attacks, did it take preventive measures and give any warning? This is also a very important issue. Look, the National Intelligence Agency is being charged right now. The head of the National Intelligence Agency, Hakan Fidan Bey, can't answer those remarks about him as a civil servant, but at least in front of independent Turkish courts, he could give clear and clear information about the work done or other issues. Again, see, as of yesterday, the Herons' image was monitored by members of the Human Rights Commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Although all the lawmakers would like to see the pictures of the Herons, and I'd like to see it in person. When the images of the Herons are examined, we see that people are bombed four times in two hours at a time; this is a very important issue. So there's four times in a row, especially when people are passing through, and there's a bunch of Herons with loads on the mules, and it's very important that it's bombed four times in a row over the course of two hours without any warning. At least in this secret meeting, Mr. Oktay Vural, at this closed session, at this secret meeting, there could be at least some comments about them. Is that MIT? Is he having an affair with the MIT? Or who ordered the bombing after the sight of these Herons? Or how far have these orders been carried out? Or is he behind this?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0420par0026	Mr. Right, here, pick it up, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0419par0027	I'm finishing, sir. So we're not supposed to know about this after these Herons are examined? At the very least, we're in closed session, and if this were said in closed session, by the government officials, I think we'd be more happy, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0420par0030	Thank you, Mr. Right. Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the change in the Law on State Intelligence Services 164 rows and National Intelligence Service Act on the framework of the Law Proposal of the First Amendment in the following way. Ahmet Aydın (Adıyaman) and his friends MADDE 1-01.11.1983, dated 2937, was changed in the following way, along with Article 26 of the National Intelligence Service Act. It is up to the Prime Minister's permission to investigate those who were appointed by the 26-MIT members or the Prime Minister to carry out a specific mission, for the crimes they were alleged to have committed during the nature of the mission or during the execution of the mission, or for the charge of Article 5271 of Article One of the Law, according to the first joke of Article 250, for the crimes committed in the field of duty."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0421par0039	Mr. President, sir, Mr. Secretary will consider the motion in a moment, perhaps -- group but. There's one thing, I don't know if that's their thing. To perform a specific task, he says, or a specific task of the members of the MIT. Now, where is a specific mission? So if it's specific, there's got to be a mission set up somewhere. The reason is that in addition to the duties of this Law, he says with other regulations. Thus, a specific task must be done here under this Law and with other legislation. One thing... it's important. Now, according to Article 250, an investigation into these crimes is subject to the Prime Minister's permission. Of course, it's categorically the 250th substance of all, but in 250/a, it says that the drug and the drug-producing and the trafficking of drugs and stimulus under organizational activity are not necessarily advocating algebra and violence under the operation of an organization for unfair economic gain. I mean, because public officials are involved in drugs, wrong economics... I suppose they don't want to have any idea that the Prime Minister is doing anything about them? So it would be extremely wrong of the Prime Minister to associate issues such as unfair economic interests, corruption, drug trafficking, and to lift a finger here, even though it is reduced to the higher interests of national interests. In that regard, this motion needs to be changed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0420par0041	Thank you. Dear friends, if you'll excuse the motion maker, we'll make a promise that they'll explain.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0422par0043	Read the reason, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0423par0044	Wait, it's important, isn't the Prime Minister your Prime Minister ours?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0424par0045	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0422par0046	The motion is ours, sir, to read the motive.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0425par0047	Mr. President, this change is about the MIT Law. For example, the 26th article in the MIT Law is a non-MIT official for the Prime Minister. For example, when the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Interior is not a member of the MIT, it does not include the 26th article, nor is it the subject of the permit. The motion here brings the framework out of the service of the MIT. An out-of-charge motion for members of the MIT contradicts the current proposal, contradicts the current proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0426par0048	Yeah, where does it say that this mission is written in the law or not?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0425par0049	I mean, there's something that's canceling the previous version of this law. The uncertainty here is that public officials are not subject to the 26th Amendment because not every public official is a member of the MIT. The situation then arises: The discussion of the field of duty of the special courts of the CMK 250 special authorities. We have the law proposals for the field debate, not combined with them. It's not combined with the Department of Justice package, and it's not in the law, so there's no way this could be combined here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0427par0050	Your words have been contained, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0428par0051	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0429par0052	It's important. Just wait five more minutes, Ms. Ayþenur.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0428par0053	The reason...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0429par0054	We've read the motive, we've got motive.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0430par0055	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0431par0056	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0430par0057	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0431par0058	Mr. President, negotiations to make the law, which means the transcripts are the guides of the enforcers. That's why we're making these objections so he can go on record.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0430par0059	Let it pass.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0431par0060	Appreciation and responsibility are for those who make this motion. See, Article 87 of our Interior Charter -- I believe -- in the fifth joke of our Civil Charter: The amendments are clearly stated in the motions to be changed, removed or added. Unopen and conditional motions cannot be put into effect. This motion does not meet Article 87 of the Civil Code's fifth joke. That's why I'm inviting the Court, and I'm inviting those who've submitted this motion to the post. I demand they make the motion clear and clear.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0432par0062	What do certain tasks mean? A specific mission... where is it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0431par0063	They need to determine the area we call a specific task.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0433par0064	Thank you, Mr. Glory, it's on the books.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0431par0065	Otherwise, it would be against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0434par0066	You can order anything outside the law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0433par0067	He's on the books. Now, does the Commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0435par0069	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0433par0070	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0436par0071	We agree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0433par0072	The commission disagrees and...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0437par0073	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0433par0074	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0437par0075	So the PM's going to do the drug smuggling, so... so he's going to say he's allowed to smuggle drugs? That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0438par0076	Mr. President, would you please read the alibi?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0439par0077	You're doing it wrong. How could he give you a job to get the wrong benefit? Well, that's beside the point, then. It's amazing! What a black eye you have!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0440par0078	Sir, I'm reading the reason: During the commission talks, this amendment motion issued by the Prime Minister to consider uncertainty about the mandates to be made by the Prime Minister has been made clear that the postings by the Prime Minister are to be appointed from among the public officials within the framework of other legislation and duties given to the Prime Minister as part of the Law under the amendment. I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0441par0082	It's your responsibility.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0442par0083	Good for you! I mean, good for you, good for you! He'll get permission from the Prime Minister... to form an organization for unfair gain.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0440par0084	Congressmans, since the motion has just completely changed the clause, I will remove the other motion from the process. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The following temporary clause is added to the Law 2-2937. The 26th Amendment provisions are carried out on the ongoing investigations and prosecutions as of the date when this Law is in effect. Mr. Süheyl Batum, MP of Eskişehir, is the first speaker on behalf of the groups on the matter. Mr. Batum, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0443par0092	Mr. President, we are now discussing the second amendment of the law that you have brought before us, and we have said that it is contrary to the Constitution for which you have brought so many laws, that they are indeed contrary to the Constitution, but this time, dear friends, you have made your case. Unfortunately, you have brought to the Constitution, the Civil Code, a completely contrary arrangement to many articles of the Constitution, without any hesitation, without any shame. Dear friends, we're talking about this particular law. It's not unique, it's unique, it's specific to an event, and it's unique to directly interfering with the judicial process in a case. One day we learned that someone who claimed to be the Prime Minister's special official said in Oslo: "You have come to love in Reshadiye." He said, "You are laughing." You've come to love in Reşadiye. The incident is that 7 people have been killed, 7 Turkish soldiers have been killed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0444par0095	And you believed that?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0443par0096	After him, the Turkish Nation is lazy, and when it finds a smart man, it's on its back. He says it's for Abdullah Ocalan. This is someone who claims to be the Prime Minister's special official, bombing, bombing, killing children, saying, "Don't do anything until June 15th, you can do whatever you want after June 15th, let's make the elections. Now, an open investigation has been launched into this person, the Undersecretary of MIT. The next day, they suspended the D.A. HSYK has launched an investigation. The Minister of Justice has given permission to investigate and you have brought this law we call gang law. Now Mr. Ahmet Aydın was just saying that we are doing the ones that have not been encouraged to do so until today. Those who can't see are being interviewed. You didn't even have the courage until today. When a constitutional amendment was in the Constitutional Court in 2008, he said, "Let's make a constitutional amendment in order to block the trial that was discussed in the Constitutional Court." You know, the suspension formula, but the friend from inside the AKP, who was then the Speaker, said: "We can't do anything against the Constitution or bring a law." Now, you've come to the conclusion that you've obviously interfered with a legal judicial process. We talked about it at the Justice Commission. You also said that the current investigations and prosecutions are being carried out. You brought this. Of course, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ was there. What does that have to do with this investigation? We had nothing to do with this. It is the law of harmony; it is the law of harmony of the European Union. Why should the great Prime Minister abuse authority? He said, look us in the eye. Don't be critical, it's an honorable institution, he said. Now, with all due respect, Mr. Bozdağ doesn't know the world, and if he knows the world, he doesn't know anything about the law. If he knows about the law, he's trying to trick us and you. Careful, I'm talking about you guys, too, because what he couldn't get done in 2008, he wants to raise his hand and use you as well. I'm just saying, I don't think you guys are gonna do it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0445par0099	We're a team.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0446par0100	Shut up! Shut up! Shut up and listen!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0443par0102	I don't know if you're inclined to commit the same crime as Bekir Bozdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0445par0103	Sit down! Sit down!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0446par0104	You can't lose weight by talking, get on the stand and lose weight!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0443par0105	Dear friends, I have made it clear that you have a law against...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0447par0107	Gentlemen, please... I didn't expect you to raise your hand because the Prime Minister instructed you to, and I didn't expect you to raise your hand again because Bekir Bozdağ instructed you to. I'll see. If I'm wrong, I'll be wrong. The Supreme Court's decisions are very clear. Mr. Slim just told me. In 2009, the Constitutional Court made it clear that in 2009/15 he had brought similar uncertain arrangements -- regulations -- to cancel. The Supreme Court cancelled again on 25/6/1992. The decisions of the European Court of Human Rights are clear, but you have brought this law. Dear friends, this law was against the 88th Amendment of the Constitution; it had no grounds, no grounds, and you didn't even go there. The 138th article of the Constitution is clearly contrary to other articles, and you've never even been there, dear friends. We're telling you, we're trying to tell you. You've brought in the law that allows us to form a gang, a gang that belongs to the Prime Minister. I'm telling you, just in case you guys realize, even if you don't realize it, he's going to read the Turkish nation's reports, and he's definitely going to know what you're doing one day. You said that the Prime Minister had been assigned to perform a special task. Now you've changed: a certain mission... What do you mean, a specific mission? What mission? What is the nature of your mission? During the mission, you gave the MP an immunity that you didn't even know, the Prime Minister assigned him to assign certain tasks. Is that an arrangement? Is such an arrangement appropriate for Turkey's Grand National Assembly? It doesn't even look good on you. As I said, the Constitutional Court's decisions are open, and the Constitutional Court's decision also states: "The security of law requires specificity and predictability in the rules. To do certain tasks... My dear friends, I'm telling you, you're doing this without any manners. It's a law that allows you to start a gang, no matter what anyone says. It's a law that allows them not to tell the prime ministers the truth, but, unfortunately, to lie. How? He is the bastard who met with the PKK. By order, you came to love in Reshadiye. A law that allows those who say "KCK" to be protected by the bombings of children. You even got that law made. Dear friends, let me tell you, sometimes your Prime Minister blames us for the 1920s, for the 30s, for the Ataturk, for the Inöneu, for the fact that I am truly proud once again when you bring this law to me, that I am at the party of those people. I'm at a party of people who would never give a price for such unprincipledness, such order, such lack of principle. I'm at the party of those who tell their children this night, not with shame, not with blush, but with pride, and like Ahmet Aydın, my friend, we didn't have the courage until today, we were able to bring such a law for the first time. Where have we come to? I am at a party where there are no friends. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Batum. Second speaker...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0448par0119	Mr. President, the Speaker has given me my name twice and expressed an opinion that does not belong to me. I want words according to 69.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0447par0120	All right, please wrap it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0449par0121	Because of the bullying, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0447par0122	He wants it because of the bullying, yes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0450par0125	Yes, dear friends, just now the speaker, Mr. Orator, used some statements that didn't belong to me by mentioning my name twice. Dear friends, I want you to know that we've been through what we've been through in the ten years of partying, nine years of power. We fought the Ergenekon, we fought the Ballioz, we fought the yellow girls, we fought the moonlight.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0451par0127	Maybe you set them up, too.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0450par0128	Our party was tried to shut down, we stood up, we stood up, e-mails came in, and we stood up straight to the memos.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0451par0129	I see you set them up, too.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0450par0130	We brought everything here with serious courage. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, listen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0451par0133	You started those gangs.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0450par0134	Mr. Fine, you were just yelling at the fellow here, why don't you turn around and yell at the people behind you, and yell at those deputies? You were just yelling at our friend, weren't you, when you were picking on the witness on the stand? What he did wasn't right, but there's a whole bunch of them out there picking on us. Look, guys, if the AK PARTY's been up and running so far, it's because it's been brave enough to come up with a vote. AK PARTY is not a party that fears anyone, no group, no person, and so far we've brought everything with courage.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0452par0136	Let the D.A. do his job, brother.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0450par0137	What I'm trying to say is that until yesterday he passed the AK PARTY legislation that you didn't have the courage to speak. I said...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0453par0138	Send a messenger to Obama.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0450par0139	The AAK PARTY has brought it into effect. I said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0454par0140	Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0455par0141	Mr. Ahmet Aydın, you have passed a law to prevent a walking investigation, and I say you have the courage.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0454par0142	Mr. Batum, please listen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0456par0143	If you can argue about what you can't talk about until yesterday, what you can't argue about until yesterday, it's because of the courage of the AK PARTY, because of the openings of the EC PARTY.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0455par0144	Dear Ahmet Aydın, you have passed a law to prevent a walking investigation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0456par0145	Dear friends, we are a new party, and we have come to this stage tirelessly and tirelessly. And from now on, without fear of anyone or anything, we will move on with courage. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because we said, "Our job is to serve, people, and we take this power only from that nation, and we have no fear of any of you."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0457par0149	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. [[Continue]] Congressmans, the second speaker on the matter is Mr. Idris Baluken on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0458par0158	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by welcoming your delegation. Of course, the process, which began on February 8th with the summoning of 4 MITISTs, including the Undersecretary of the MIT, continues in a very stormy way later this February 16th, even in this early February 17th. I wish this had happened earlier when the special prosecutors had taken elected MPs, mayors, elected council members representing the will of the people into custody and sent them to prison. If that were the case, we would really have given a great deal of meaning to these discussions, and we would have sat down together and carried out some discussions to make arrangements for them. Now, a lot of public debate has been made, different assessments have been made, but particularly in the preliminary assessments have come to light that this is an embodiment of a ruling war, a palace shared. Of course, there was also an illusion of perception during this domestic power struggle, and a number of approaches have been revealed that have blocked the Kurdish issue of axis talks and dialogue and considered all of these activities treasonous. Here, we need to be clear about this and we need to express it. The processes conducted in Oslo and Imralı are not the processes that the MIT conducted on its own as autonomous, independent of the government and the state. The processes carried out in Imralı (Imralı) and Oslo (Imra) are state-EC state-run talks. I need to be clear about this. Now, in each meeting, every time such important decisions have been made, starting with the National Security Council, from the processes that have been developed within the Prime Minister's knowledge, if we assume that an institution within the state is conducting talks in an autonomous activity, then we will be in serious error. Thus, when making that determination, we also need to look back. These talks have been held in the past; they have been held during the Ozal period, during the Erbakan era, during the late Mr. Ecevit period, and while all of this was being done, they were still part of a state project. Well, was it bad when it was done? We need to discuss the consequences of all of this together. Now, a famous thinker has a very meaningful saying: If you don't have a living community in your land that says something worthwhile, then you listen to what the silent dead say that means a lot. Now, we're looking at today's debates, and it's really touching, and there's nothing that represents the demands of these people. Look, I'll tell you the number of dead people trying to raise that silent scream. In the period of truce, soldiers who lost their lives in dialogue, who lost their lives in five years, are not as much as soldiers who lost their lives in a conflicting process in a year. In 2002, 31 in 2003, 75 in 2004, 105 in 2005, 111 in 2006, 809 in 2008 alone lost their lives. So we need to have some very important results for some discussion from here. What matters to us is the discussion process: We need to demonstrate the ability to create an opportunity from the crisis that arises here. The opportunity is to mature debates about the way this concept of war somehow evolved into peace, dialogue, and negotiation. We all need to know that in the current war concept, government officials are already saying that state institutions are being carried out within the framework of integrated projects agreed on at the Council of Ministers. The concept here is that the MIT, the judiciary, the Police, the National Security Council, or the government do not operate independently. So the understanding of operatives or dialogueists that we're trying to focus on is extremely wrong. The most important conclusion we're going to get out of here is to get back to the negotiation and dialogue process as soon as possible. Of course, I'm afraid the ruling party is taking this opportunity in a different way. Here are a number of legal regulations, which are more of a one-party dominatrix, heading towards the Sultan of One Man and giving the Prime Minister very important powers. Here, I would like to point out that, for example, just yesterday, in the Parliamentary Commission, if this proposal is made this way, there will be no action on the MIT officer who gave the intelligence, or the Prime Minister's special authority to do anything about the public official who ordered the bombing, so 34 people will be torn apart in a vulnerable manner, and we will see if the Prime Minister will allow it. We really need to work this logic out. Look, in these discussions, there's something that the authors close to the ruling party, specifically describing the power struggle, say. I won't mention any names here, but wise traders are both winners and winners. Only the merchant, who always calls me, wins one, wins two, but eventually loses one. Now, we don't interfere with your trade. Do you win in trade, share in trade, we don't get involved. But when you're fighting this sharing war, you need to put aside these perception illusions. The tip of the system is somehow directed at you here. Hemingway's book Old Fisherman describes a beautiful shark. He talks about the shark's magnificence under deep water. That nobility, that glory, when you look at that riot of color, it's impossible not to be fascinated. Until when? Until the shark turned its head and showed its wild teeth. Now, in fact, you've somehow put the color and glory of power in front of you. See, here's the system actually showing you its own teeth. If you, for example, remove the special authorities' courts, remove the Anti-Terror Law, bring the National Security Council to be lifted and debated in this Parliament, then you will be able to talk about the glory of this system; otherwise, those who show you the teeth of the system will find out about the Syrian crisis tomorrow, the day after the Syrian crisis, what they've suggested to you about the Iranian crisis, what they've put in front of you, how they're going to attack you in any way, with these wild teeth, and how this country's political history, I think you'll find out how they're going to take a fall. Dear MPs, of course, have opened up here from literature. - you're always talking about a 50% vote and a majority. There is also a description of a statue in the book The Last Call to Sin by Kazancakis. He speaks of iron, or brass, or bronze, or whatever it is made of, the power represented by the glory of a statue. However, no matter how magnificent the statue may be, it tells the story of how, for example, in any part of the statue, if it is not guarded by the wear-off of its feet, the magnificent statue will be lying on its face, and it will be covered with salt and ice. Now, in fact, with your current power, you represent a very magnificent statue here. However, by covering your ears to the public's voice, by covering your ears to the opposition of the people, and by throwing them into prisons, you are constantly experiencing a wearout under the temple's kneecaps. If it goes like this, if you plug your ears like this, I'm afraid the material it's made of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...no matter how solid this statue is, the days are coming when it's going to be salt and ice. I, of course, because we were short on talking time, there were some things that could have meant more, and I can't express them here. However, I invite you all to reconsider, once again, in terms of dangerous processes ahead. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0459par0182	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Aydın MP Ali Longırmak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Longhorn. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0460par0187	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, governance is preordained. You can't rule if you can't predict it right. Management is also the art of getting closer to what's supposed to happen with what's supposed to happen. So when we look from here, it's possible to talk about a lot of things, until the ten-year-old AKP is in power, with its rhetoric and actions in this process, with each other falling apart, conflicting, logic fiction, all sorts of behaviors. We're discussing an offer today, but it's an offer that can be discussed in every way. Dear friends, first, I looked at the resume of our friend who proposed. He graduated law school, but had no business with the government. Whereas, of course, a congressman can always bid on them. But I'd like to ask the MIT representative: I wonder if he's been working in MIT or whatever, in contract or whatever, in the functioning of the institution, in the law of the institution, in some of the institutions or other things. If the institution really needed such a law, then the institution would have to declare it, and it would have to come in the form of a bill, and there would have to be a bill that the government actually owns here, or it would have been written into institutions to get an opinion of the institution after our esteemed congressman friend has offered it. Friends, this event begins on the 8th of the month, our friend bids on the 10th, and on Saturday, Sunday and Monday, they begin to meet in Parliament on Tuesday. We're talking about an offer that even concerns the government's institution, which is in doubt. Besides, I'd like to share something with you dear friends. Here, we need to talk information, talk sense, talk emotion, transform politics into a show art, which prevents the creation of reason and reason. A government where reason and reason are not built cannot be developed, a society cannot be modernized. We know some very valuable people in the group. Undersecretary of Public Security, Chief of Police, ambassador, and I believe that there are people who have been able to study and live the traditions and needs of these institutions. I wonder why they didn't bring such an offer. Is there something they're afraid of? Are they being accused of something else, or are they afraid that they might be confronted? Dear friends, when did these events begin, what is it that you really want to do here? The opening is a state policy. When does government policy happen? When does an incident become national and when does it become state policy? If all constitutional institutions of the state have a common opinion, then those policies are state policy. Can the state's institutions, institutions, constitutional institutions build a state policy with a view beyond the authority vested in them by the Constitution? For example, can the National Intelligence Agency be used to build a policy contrary to the duties, powers and responsibilities vested in itself by the Constitution and laws? In such a position, can universities be used in such a position? Unusable. Here's the biggest mistake the government has ever made, the biggest mistake the Prime Minister has ever made. Regarding the policy of opening, I ask you, dear friends, do any of you know what the context, strategy, strategy, method, purpose, goal is, and when you've been told about this policy?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0461par0194	It's been told for hours.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0460par0195	If anyone in the Council of Ministers knows about this, let them come and tell us. Even closed sessions were held, but nothing was said. Therefore, intelligence organisations collect news, but with intelligence organisations, politics cannot be built in democracies. If politics are being built with intelligence organizations, it's not called democracy, dear friends. If intelligence organisations have been moved to raise agents other than gathering news, the agents' provocations, especially by the prime ministers who have come with the public's votes, if the organisations are placed in an open or secret way, the name of that regime will not be called "eudemocracras" if the agents are at work. So, today, in Turkey, this law, proposed to be passed, is put on the head of the MIT. No one has the right to condemn this organization, this institution, this institution, justice, the government, the government, the government, the nation, with a label like this on the neck of this organization that needs to collect news from yesterday to today and tomorrow. The National Intelligence Agency must continue to gather news and continue to light the road. There shouldn't be an organization where agent provocateurs run wild, looked at each other suspiciously, looked suspiciously at by their people. If you correctly define democracy, the control of democracy, the valued lawmakers, if you see democracy as a logic of consciousness, a culture, an institution and rules, if one of them is withdrawn, if you believe that democracy will be completely destroyed by the domino effect when any rule or institution is destroyed, then you can modernize democracy without defining democracy the way it suits you, and if you can only guarantee it by the rule of law, if you do not transform it into public will into public courts, if you don't see it as a majority of people's courts, if you don't see it as a majority of people's rules and institutions, then you can modernize democracy with all institutions and rules, and then you can build democracy in the country. In fact, we need to talk about building a logic, a mind, where the government can't be ruled by emotional speeches, Hamasi speeches. Dear friends, I'd like to share one thing with you: I said, "To lead is to predict." Some phrases and descriptions were made, such as the apprentice, the master, the chief. Dear friends, government management is not a profession, it's a profession, it's an apprentice, it's a profession, it's a skill. I'm sorry to say that you think the government is a rookie blacksmith donkey, where you learn to be a mansion boy, an apprentice, a phalanx, a master. Is that a term? Can such a term enter public literature? You, dear friends, think and decide how this country is being led, examine the logic: You elect the president: you don't have a mandate; you have ten years of signing decrees; Mr. Prime Minister, Government, President; the Chief of Staff comes before the trial; the terrorist organization is the head of the organization; its citizens are being bombed; it's not clear how the General Staff's room is being listened; the President of the main opposition Party is being sacrificed to tapes; there are no perpetrators; all members of a political party's presidential court are being followed in the country. So what does this MIT do? Who will ensure my safety in this country? Mr. Prime Minister says I don't have surgery in my country when it comes to it. Mr. Prime Minister, then you're doing all these surgeries. So, you're doing this with special officials, with special agents, with other things, now that there's going to be work, there's a negotiation with a terrorist organization that's contrary to the Constitution, the self-defense force, the second official language, the same kind of talks that go against the Constitution, the former Deputy Prime Minister's Office, as a special representative of the Prime Minister, and then we're negotiating with a number of talks that have gone against the Constitution, and then I've given them a reverse mission to the Constitution, so how do we get them back now? Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we now have a duty to Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President. If politics are to be done honestly, democracy, public will be done with clarity, Mr. Prime Minister must apologize to the public and to the opposition for what he said yesterday, and must say that I have misled the people. I must also tell the opposition that I have made a false accusation to you. I apologize to Mr. President and Mr. President... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If he vetoed the individual law, if he vetoed a law that could not be passed to influence the ongoing cases, vetoed a law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, here is today's proposal, which is exactly the same law that Mr. President sent by vetoing, to the point, to the comma. He should send this back. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0462par0204	Thank you, Mr. Tallie. Talks on matter are completed on behalf of groups. Now, in the name of their individuals, Mr. Ramazan Can, Mr. Kırıkkale MP. Here you go, Mr. Can. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0210	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Justice Commission Report has the opposition of the Republican People's Party, the opposition of the People's Party, and I'd like to read a line from the law: for example, any person appointed by the Prime Minister is not to be judged or touched, unless the Prime Minister permits it. Is that a claim?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0464par0213	These crimes are found in the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0214	Can such a claim be answered in criminal law? Can a lawyer make a claim like that?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0465par0215	Do you know about the crimes?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0216	Yeah, well, in this country, prosecutors, judges, governors love their homes, but the prime ministers don't like their homes. Why don't you trust the prime ministers? Of course, you don't trust the prime ministers.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0466par0217	Why should we trust a person?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0218	You have the history of prime ministers who go to the gallows.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0467par0219	We trust in God! We trust no one but the Lord!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0220	You have a history of clapping for the blow. May God reform you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0468par0221	Ramadan, don't trust me either! May God reform you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0469par0222	You read the item.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0223	Teacher, I studied Istanbul Law. I was one of God, and you taught couples. I'm so glad I didn't learn from you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0469par0224	Read the article. My dear fellow, read the item, the item.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0225	On the other hand, there's another claim being made here, which is said to be related to Prosecutor Sarikaya (the prosecutor's office:) Sir, there's a second Sarkaya case being committed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0470par0226	Which Sarikaya, which one? They both have different apps, which one?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0227	For God's sake, a second case of Sarkaya is being committed. Didn't you not applaud when the HSYK made this decision, when they were banned from their profession, including law?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0471par0228	It was implemented during your administration, implemented during the AKP era.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0229	Come, let us judge the decisions of the HSYK and the military sector. When we said, did you not object to the changes of the Constitution here, or boycott it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0472par0230	Military justice continues.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0231	Didn't you say no at the referendum? But thank God that the great Turkish nation has taught you 58 percent of the vote, and I hope you've learned, but you can't tell from where you've been taking lessons.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0473par0232	You're getting votes by lying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0233	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0474par0234	Tell me what happened to the other Sarkaya.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0235	There are no coup plans in the democratic state.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0474par0236	What's that got to do with a coup?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0237	Not politicians who are silent about coup plans, coups, even clapping. There are never political parties who are hit men. So-called intellectuals, lawyers, don't applaud the coup.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0475par0238	Why don't you judge Yasar Büyükanit?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0476par0239	You planned a coup with the PKK! What did you do? You've got a deal!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0240	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have accused Mr. Prime Minister of being the tip of the ongoing investigation concerning the CHP spokesman. He'll have to prove his claim. If the contractor doesn't prove his claim, he's a mufti. Mert people prove their claims. Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been mentioned here that this law, this proposal, is a special offer, that certain people are being protected.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0477par0242	You explain the bastard first.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0243	Now I'm saying that it's not likely that the proposal contains the individual's special editing image, all of the norm-like conditions, and the rule is not exhausted by implementing them, but by generality, abstractity and continuity. Therefore, the offer is not personal, it is common, and from now on, it will be applied to all future events. Another claim, on the other hand, is whether to apply current investigations, investigations, prosecutions in implementing the penal norms. It's a procedure. This procedure has been implemented in the court's practices in the dismissal of the ruling. Therefore, this practice is not a problem; it is not private; it will be applied.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0478par0245	Then why did you put in the additive?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0479par0246	Gangsters, gangbangers! Strikers!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0247	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we'd like to say that the MIT is an adornment of this country. It's an institution that investigates the security of the state, its intelligence. If we do not make a decision to protect them in an arrangement related to the MIT, who will go, and who will do the research?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0479par0248	There is, there's protection.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0463par0249	If there are criminals within this institution, of course, they will be tried, no one is innocent of crime. There's no structure to qualify for.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0480par0250	Who's gonna give it to me? ▪ The prime minister cannot be tried without permission.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0479par0251	Clear the way for judgment!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0481par0252	Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0482par0253	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask that the law offer be a blessing to our nation, to our country, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0481par0255	Thank you, Mr. Can. On behalf of his subjects, the second speaker is Konya MP Mr. Harun Rifleci. Here you go, Mr. Rifleman.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0483par0259	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge to express my opinion on the 2nd Amendment to the State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Service Act on behalf of myself in Article 2 of Proposition. I salute the grand jury. Dear friends, the National Intelligence Service is carrying out a very important task for the gathering of intelligence for the security of our country inside and outside. An investigation into such an important institution requires care and sensitivity. Under the regulation, the investigations against them due to the crimes alleged to have been carried out by members of the National Intelligence Service or those assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special mission or by the Prime Minister will be subject to the rights of the investigations launched against them due to the alleged crimes committed during the execution of the mission, as well as by the first joke of the First Amendment of their Penal Code. Under Article 26 of the MIT Law, it is up to the Prime Minister's permission to open an investigation, not only for the Undersecretary, but for all MIT members, for the nature of the mission or for alleged crimes committed during the execution of the mission. When no one objects to it for years, when no one finds it against the law, why is it so difficult to understand why it is now that the Prime Minister has permission? However, the current practices are related to state-level officials, which are subject to the Prime Minister's permission in an investigation carried out by prosecutors. Dear friends, I don't think there's much to say at this hour. We must show the sensitivity necessary to the National Intelligence Agency. This is necessary for our country's survival and independent Republic of Turkey, and I think we should all fight for it together, and I say I support the offer on behalf of myself, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0484par0264	Congressmans, the talks on the matter are complete. Now we're going to do a ten-minute QA.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0485par0266	Sir, no, we have a motion.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0484par0267	We'll read the motions from now on.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0485par0268	No, sir, the negotiations haven't been completed, we have a motion to proceed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0484par0269	Sir, now we have a ten-minute question-and-answer procedure. I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system in order. Mr. Sener... no. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0486par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we have a nine-point protocol that was claimed to have been seized during the KCK operations. Whose signatures are under this protocol? Second: In a meeting with MIT-PK executives, who were published on a website on September 13, 2011, have any legal transactions been made by your government as to the talks of the Deputy Deputy Prime Minister on behalf of the Prime Minister of the day, Mr. Hakan Fidan? Are you digesting this? Was Mr. Fidan's testimony dictated to him by the Prime Minister himself? I want you to explain that. This law is being brought here today to protect the Prime Minister and Fidan. You need to explain that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0487par0276	Thank you. Mr. Sour...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0488par0278	Mr. President, thank you. From the proposal you brought in and accepted with your votes, there are many members of the MIT or others in our country who participate in criminal activities. Mr. Secretary, as of today, what is the number of incidents and persons that require permission from the Prime Minister? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0489par0281	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0490par0283	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Bozdağ, how close are you to Ünal Bozdağ, who has been appointed deputy chief of staff of the Justice Department? Is your relative in line with the political ethics of this appointment? Two: You've just made your statement on the stand. In other countries, there are even more advanced substances. British intelligence agency law, Finland, Italy, Portugal, Poland, Belgium, Germany, there is no such substance. Can you explain to me which country you're explaining is in the law? If you don't, would you apologize to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for cheating on the Grand National Assembly of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0491par0286	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0492par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has been discussing unsolved murders and incidents for years. And in this last MIT investigation, it's becoming pretty much obvious how far the unsolved murders go, because any shooter who's ever been investigated would say, "If I open my mouth, the ground will move." When this law is passed, unfortunately, the Prime Minister will be left under suspicion. I'm inviting the AKP Group to call off this law because they're going to declare the Prime Minister a suspect. Also, are there MIT members in custody in the Ergenekon case, in the Sledgehammer case, in the PKK case and in the KCK case? If so, do you intend to make an amnesty for them? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0493par0291	Thank you. Mr. Oz, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0494par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. How many MIT investigations have been conducted in the last ten years, and during these investigations, did the Prime Minister get permission? A second question: What is the nature of the task with this clause and the limits of the quality and criminal assessment of the charge during its execution? Who's going to determine that? Is it right for these subjective statements to be in the law? My third question: What European Union countries have the law that you're trying to legislate today when you want to enter the European Union violently? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0495par0298	Mr. Ozturk... no. Mr. Secretary, please come in.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0300	Mr. Scholar Light asked the press a question about the protocols reflected in them. That's what I said in my speech.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0497par0301	Mr. President, we had a request.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0495par0302	No, he didn't, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0303	I told the press there was no such protocol, and I told the press it was an unrealistic statement. On the other hand...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0498par0305	So he didn't find it, or the judge didn't find a protocol like that?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0306	Wait a minute, I'll give you an answer. Listen. On the other hand, some things were said and evaluated, expressed here by the words of the bastard, etc. Since it's connected to this, I'd like to answer that question. Mr. Prime Minister, at the time of the election, the presidents of the political parties have personally discussed the matter with the government, and the EC PARTI itself...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0499par0308	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0309	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0499par0310	That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0311	I know what I'm saying. Look, I know exactly what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0500par0312	Who are you telling?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0313	I know very well.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0500par0314	You can't lie that much.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0501par0315	You're a statesman! Is the Deputy Secretary of the Prime Minister going to visit? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0316	It's about... We've listened to you... you're doing the shame! I listen to you, you ask, you listen. You ask and you don't listen, it's a shame!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0501par0318	You can't lie so much, you're a statesman!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0496par0319	But look, I'll read it. Look, don't do anything. Look, you ask him to ask, you can't stand his answer. Look, I'm giving you the answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0501par0320	I'll say it harder.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0502par0321	Why are you lying to me?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0501par0322	You're going to go out and tell people you're an asshole, and then you're going to do something here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0323	Look, our Prime Minister has a very clear explanation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0501par0324	I'll say it harder.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0504par0325	Tell me if you dare!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0326	He also has a speech on this issue in Parliament, and I read: The Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey has never been involved in an approach to the state not to negotiate with the island or with such people.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0505par0327	What if you love God? Is the Prime Minister's mission special representative? Who's the Prime Minister's special representative?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0329	We didn't do it as a government, but as a state, I said we had these discussions in Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0505par0330	In what capacity does the special agent speak?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0331	If you look at the reports in Parliament, they'll be seen there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0505par0332	In what capacity does the special agent speak? You're the hangman of dignity!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0333	I told them to prove one of my friends, or my government member friends, or even my friends here, if they don't prove it, they're assholes, they're scoundrels. What happened? Did they prove it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0506par0334	He's got a point! Be a man and apologize. I'm sorry. Be a man and apologize, it's proof! There are protocols.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0335	The government's Undersecretary of MIT is interviewing everyone, not just the member of a terrorist organization. He does it with other people. Why? He'll track it, he'll identify the culprit.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0507par0336	Yeah, to commit a crime, right?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0337	That's what he's supposed to do about it. As my special agent, I sent him back as an undersecretary of state, an undersecretary of state, who did he go with? He's gone with the Undersecretary of MIT again.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0508par0338	He went there without the Prime Minister's men?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0509par0339	Sit down, listen!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0340	I'm not the one running away from this, I'm the one saying it, I'm the one saying it, and I'm saying it again and again. I told you yesterday, and I told you today, and I'll tell you tomorrow. Don't talk like that. The government has spoken, not the party.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0510par0341	What the hell are you guys? Are you out or are you a genie?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0342	What you're saying is something else, something our Prime Minister said. We stand by what we do and we stand by what we say, we don't hide it anywhere.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0511par0343	Answer the question.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0510par0344	Who are you kidding? You can't even fool yourself!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0345	Everyone, everyone knows everything. You can't say the slanders and then bear the answer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0510par0346	You're talking to the PKK, you're cooperating with the election, you're cooperating with the election!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0347	Don't do that. Don't do that. We're speaking clearly. We didn't hide it anywhere. Mr. Prime Minister himself told us on this stand, and our Prime Minister said it in the squares, and he made his statement. No one's hiding...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0512par0348	Bekir Bozdağ, answer the question, don't guarantee the ministry!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0349	No one's hiding it, we're saying it clearly. In your time of power, in the period after 99, everyone knows who they are meeting with.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0513par0350	He who seeks to negotiate with the PKK is a bastard and a scoundrel who sets up a negotiating table and pursues the unity of this nation!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0351	At that time, he met with Imralı, and with the government officials.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0514par0353	Explain then...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0515par0354	It's the bastard who doesn't prove it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0355	Now, then it's not the...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0515par0356	It's the bastard who doesn't prove it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0503par0357	In our time, in the name of the government, government officials...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0516par0359	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0517par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0516par0361	Mr. Longhorn, please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0518par0362	About the members of MIT...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0519par0363	No, Mr. Bekir, you're saying the wrong thing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0518par0364	27 people have been granted permission since 97, and 10 have been granted permission. In our time, as of 2004, five people were allowed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0520par0365	Mr. President, turn on the microphone or the question-answer is complete, so write it down.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0521par0366	The mike's on, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0520par0367	No, it's not on, it's a microphone.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0521par0368	Turn on the mic... Yes, Mr. Secretary, pick it up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0522par0370	There is no number on the process prior to 92. Ünal Bozdağ is my brother, a citizen of this country, a law student, a judge. He has the right to work in the government like everyone else.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0523par0373	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0522par0374	Shame on you... in this country, in the sweat of your eyes, in the trials of the 28th Februaryers you applauded, he's a judge.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0523par0375	In 75 million they found Bekir's brother!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0522par0376	Is that a crime or a shame? Shame on you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0524par0378	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0525par0379	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0524par0380	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please... please listen to our friend. Here you go, Mr. Longhorn. Please, my dear friends, let's hear it. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0526par0386	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made misdemeanor assessments of my speech. At the same time, from 1999 onwards, he teased me about the government we co-operated with, and the government I'm a member of, and the government my party is a partner in, and he made a false statement, and I want to correct it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0527par0387	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0524par0388	One moment, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0526par0389	According to 69, because of the bullying...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0524par0390	One moment, please, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0528par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0526par0392	I'm not going to create tension.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0529par0393	Mr. President, no teasing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0394	One minute... here you go. Please, you said don't explain in a minute, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0526par0397	Dear MPs, I don't want to create any tension, but I'd like to share something with you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0399	Please sit down. We can't hear, please... sir, let's keep the peace. He'll make a statement in a minute. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0526par0400	If in the countries where democracy is truly institutionalized, whether it's one of the events in Turkey, either the government resigns or the Prime Minister or those who make that mistake apologize in civility.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0402	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0526par0403	If we can't apologize civilizedly, we can't be modernized. If we can't fix our mistakes, we can't modernize. Then we can't understand each other. There's no politics with insults, there's no politics with envy, there's politics with mind. I asked the Prime Minister to apologize for one mistake, not insult him. So these delusions of yours are in vain, you can't build a logic. You come with a blow, you go with a blow. You come in a conjunctural and you go with something else.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0405	Mr. Longneck, thank you. Okay, okay, please... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0531par0407	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0408	Mr. Tanal, please... please... no, nothing happened to you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0531par0409	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0410	What is it? What is it, brother?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0531par0411	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0413	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... What is it, Mr. Tanal? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Guys, I can't hear. One moment, please let's keep the peace. Here, what do you want to talk about?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0532par0418	Look, Mr. President, as the Minister answers, my personality is not lost by taunting my personal rights, my brother... he said, "Look, my brother," he said to me, "It's a tease."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0419	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, Mr. Tanal didn't say anything about your name, so I listened. Please... he's out of control.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0532par0420	Well, what I'm asking you is, can you get me his transcripts?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0426	Congressmans, there are seven motions on the clause, and I'm going to have them read according to the order of arrival, and I'm going to process them according to the order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that State Intelligence Services 2/343, which is the main public intelligence services and the amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act, be changed to the "for" of the interim clause added with Article 2 of Framework 2. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that State Intelligence Services 2/343, which is the main public intelligence services and the amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act, be changed to the "for" of the interim clause added with Article 2 of Framework 2. 2 of the current Law Proposal 164 rows. We ask that the Interim Article-4 of the Article be changed in the following way. Article 4- As of the date when this Law is in effect, the ongoing investigations and prosecutions do not apply Article 26 provisions. Congressmans, since the four motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: 2 of the current Law Proposal 164 rows. We request that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0533par0444	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0445	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0534par0446	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0530par0447	Now, I'm going to promise the motion holders five minutes each in a row. First word, Huseyin Aygün, the Tunceli MP. Mr. Ayday, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0535par0451	Mr. President, the government insists that this proposal of law was made to solve the Kurdish problem, and that the Oslo process should be given a chance for peace and the country's security, and that various parties object to various points in the General Assembly. In his hourly speech, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ was given this authority in the name of the peace of the country. MIT, a sensitive institution of the country, should not be wearied and the Prime Minister should be trusted. Friends, Turkey has lost 40,000 people in the terrorist and domestic conflict environment stemming from the Kurdish issue for 30 years. Yesterday, a soldier from Erzincan Djemevi, a soldier named Murat Bayram, was removed from the martyred southeast, and quickly approaching our door for a new conflict. No sane person can refuse to negotiate with the organisation or any other state institution, and I don't think that anyone in this parliament will refuse. Let's take a look at this -- how this closed negotiation started, and what was the purpose of this, especially the Prime Minister, how government representatives presented this process to Parliament, then to the Turkish community, and then how did some forces project these talks to the media and the Internet, and how did the government members make some new explanations? Now, when we look at the experiences of other countries, we can see that a plan and a program that, first of all, has been implemented -- its goal is clear, limited in terms of security, that does not take away the area of politics, that does not take the political word into the conflict today, and that is the way it has been done in many countries, if we are slow down. Now, for example, our Hodja Süheyl Batum, who just said, in a meeting during the Oslo process, the MIT official who joined it said, "Don't do anything until June 15th. From here, it seems that the government has not really set a goal for the solution of the Kurdish problem, and is acting on some tactical achievements -- for example, success in the June 12th elections. Since the government has not given us any information on this process... What were these interviews really for, what was the point? Now that the content of this mission has never been explained, since it is revealed in this Parliament, it would be good if we learned, and we all think that we can understand this process and stop the deaths of the new Murat Bajram, but the government is planning to stop explaining this process, let alone inform the Assembly about the content of the mission given, convince the community, prepare society, prepare the community, and protect the MIT officials who are guilty of a new design.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0536par0457	Are you against the negotiations or not?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0535par0458	Now, for example, I read something on the Internet about the language of the negotiation, and it says: "Friends, the most important thing right now is lunch break, the most important thing we're going to do, we're hungry. " Believe me, when I read that tape, I said, "How careless, how irresponsible those who conduct these negotiations are. These talks are being held for human life, supposedly for peace, but I don't understand how such a sloppy language can be carried out in such a difficult process with such bad staff, and I have rebelled. Again, our teacher himself told me, and I learned from him, and he was very instructive when he spoke to Suheyl Hodja. The MIT members now bomb city buses, kill children, and Sarıkaya in İstanbul says the prosecutor, who has been relieved of duty and who has been investigated today, says: "The actions have become so unbearable and can't be hidden that I have to open an investigation. I'm not really sorry to interfere in the politics business, but I'm sorry that Mehmet Ali Birand was rioting the comments that had been made, he wrote them. Friends, the MIT used various forces and illegal formations against ASALA thirty years ago. He said that if you were exposed, I would not look after you. But today it seems that I do not look after those who are exposed, the prosecutors, the judges, the judges. He answers and protects those who are guilty. If we want to conduct this process properly, please inform Parliament, inform Parliament, the MHP speaker speaks the truth, explaining the content of that task. From now on, let's learn how to conduct the negotiations, because there are statements made by the Prime Minister himself. I personally don't object to the negotiation, but if it's handled like this, it'll only aggravate terrorism and bloodshed. Think of it now, if the footage of the heron we saw yesterday mentions the negligence of the MIT. Thank you so much for listening.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0537par0465	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Second speaker Dilek Akagün Yilmaz, Butler MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0538par0470	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment to convey my views on the establishment of Prime Minister Special Illegal Organization 164.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0539par0471	Mr. President, is there such an entrance, sir, such a conversation?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0538par0472	I'm asking all the ruling lawmakers: do you realize what you're doing with this bill you're defending, what kind of legal disaster you're signing?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0539par0473	Mr. President, would you please alert the speaker? Mr. President, Mr. President, look, the relevant clause of the Civil Code, Article 67... Mr. President, would you mind warning me? Please fix it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0540par0474	Congressman, a moment of your time.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0538par0475	Sir?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0540par0476	State the official name of the law, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0541par0477	Mr. President, the Prime Minister's illegal organization begins. Mr. President, please fix it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0540par0478	Yes, it does, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0542par0479	A lot of friends just mentioned that, Mr. Elistash, you weren't there, your friends didn't interfere.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0540par0480	Congressman...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0543par0481	Mr. President, the Congressman doesn't know what he's doing, what he's talking about. Look, the motion is the same as the law.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0542par0482	Yes, Mr. President, number 164...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0540par0483	Mr. Yilmaz, a moment of your time.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0542par0484	...I'm reporting my views on the Law Proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0540par0485	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0544par0486	Mr. President, the bench will not limit your immunity, please continue.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0545par0487	Mr. President, not everyone in there can say what they want!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0546par0488	Mr. President, I have to finish, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0547par0489	Mr. Yilmaz, one second, one more time, I'll reboot. Please state the official name of the law, then make your criticism again. I'm rebooting your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0548par0492	Dear friends, I give you my opinion on the Law Proposal No. 164, but I repeat my earlier thoughts. I'm asking all the ruling lawmakers: do you realize what you're doing with this bill you're defending, what kind of legal disaster you're signing? Of course you do. That's where it all starts. In the first place, you're violating Article 138, you're committing a constitutional crime, and you're doing it knowingly, willingly, by designing it. What does it say, item 138? There is no question about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly regarding a case that has been seen. You are further than that, interfering directly in the field of justice and changing the law. There will come a time when you will all be judged for it, and you will be called to account for it. It is clear that what is intended to be done here, as the Prime Minister's special representative and as a member of the MIT, those accused of violating their duties by the Prime Minister's order, are being protected by this law, because if these people testify, it is possible that the Prime Minister will also be placed in the position of the accused. And that's why, in order to protect these people, you really want to take out this law in order to protect the Prime Minister, and you want to create an illegal gang organization linked to the Prime Minister, knowing that you have the opportunity. What crimes do you want to free this special gang of prime ministers from, as part of the CMK Article 250 of special-ranking courts, which perpetrators are being tried, if you like, my dear Ramadan Can, I remind you. You're securing the Prime Minister's private organisation because of forming an organization to commit a crime, disrupting the state's unity and country's integrity, cooperating with the enemy, destroying military facilities and a deal against the government of the Republic of Turkey, armed rebellion against the Republic of Turkey, assault and assault on the President, political and military espionage and so on. You're putting anyone who's been assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special mission under this protective shield. Is there anything further than that? You're opening the way for the Prime Minister's gladiator to form his deep state, and you're depending on the Prime Minister's permission to stand trial no matter what crimes these people commit. You're building a terrible shield, but you still can't protect the Prime Minister. What you're afraid of is that the outcome of this investigation will go all the way to the Prime Minister, and unfortunately, you can't protect the Prime Minister from the special court monster. In violation of the principle of natural judge, the principle of fair judgment, which swings above this country like the sword of Demoklesin, the monster you created, the special authority courts, and the special prosecutors you created, were only very good until yesterday, and now it's bad? In January, you applauded the arrest of former Chief of Staff Mr. Ilker Başbug, who was clearly written in the Constitutional Court for which he was to be tried. In the same way, you applauded when the Joint Chiefs of Staff were arrested by a special authority court. Erzincan, former Chief Public Prosecutor Ilhan Cihaner, who should be tried in the Supreme Court again, applauded when the law was ignored and taken from the special prosecutors to the prison.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0549par0500	Don't go there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0550par0501	Sadullah Ergin and Bekir Bozdağ also applauded.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0548par0502	You applauded when MPs elected by the nation's votes continued to be held in prison under special authorities' courts, defamation of the will of the nation. You have not considered the Prime Minister's permission or any objection when you were arrested by special authorities, Special Courts Prosecutors and Special Official Courts tried to reduce the voice of your opponents as these proceedings were conducted against the Constitution. When these are done, the judge cannot be interfered, and no one in this country has the privilege, and everyone will answer for what they have done. You said it, and you said it. Now, when the monster you created comes back to you, we don't answer for what we've done. You say, you're trying to get a special law on this, but you're still not thinking about ending the more special authority court freak. The democracy in this country... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Because you still need these courts to eliminate the state of law. That's why...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0551par0507	Mr. Yilmaz, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0548par0508	Mr. President, you interrupted me, so let me finish, and I'll give you my last words.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0551par0509	No, sir. Please... I gave it to you again, sir, I gave it to you again. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0548par0510	That's why history will judge you. This will go down in history as a black mark.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0551par0511	Mr. Yilmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0548par0512	Because of your historical error, you won't be able to face your children tomorrow.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0552par0514	Come on!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0553par0515	That's a shame. Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0554par0516	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0555par0517	You're sitting like a lop! It's like a lop, lop!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0556par0518	Sit down! We're talking about Adam. Your president said you weren't a man.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0557par0520	Gentlemen, please... please, gentlemen, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0558par0521	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0559par0522	Don't shout!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0558par0523	Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0560par0524	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0561par0525	Guys, please... Mr. Slim, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0560par0527	Mr. President, one of the architects of this business is Mr. Bashir Atalay. Mr. Bashir Atalay is not in the House. He won't say a word. Idris Naim Şahin, the new Home Secretary, has been through this much and won't say a word.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0562par0528	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0561par0529	I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0562par0530	Please step in!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0563par0531	The Minister of Justice lives across the street, the Minister of Development lives there. Is the Minister of Justice embarrassed to sit there? Can't he own it? Can't Bashir Atalay own it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0562par0532	Mr. President, is that a procedure?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0563par0533	Why doesn't he come there? Why is he sitting there?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0564par0534	Every minister of the government sits here!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0563par0535	Then let the Minister of Development answer them. Let him come. Let him take advantage of us.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0565par0536	Thank you, Mr. Slim. He's on hold, sir. He's on hold. Now, the third speaker is Mr. Sırrı Sakık.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0563par0538	Come and tell me. Tell me if you know!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0566par0539	I wasn't aware of it in the future, they did it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0565par0540	Here you go, Mr. Sakek. Your time is five minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0567par0542	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, hello to all of you. Actually...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0568par0544	Let the Minister of Justice sit there!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0569par0546	Let's hear it... members of lawmakers, if we can please keep quiet, we can listen to the preacher. Mr. Tanal, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0568par0548	Mr. President, the Minister of Justice will be seated!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0569par0550	Mr. Sakık, please, I'm just finishing up the time again.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0570par0551	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. [[AK PARTY and CHP rows exchange speeches, noise]] As long as this argument continues, I won't talk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0571par0554	President, take a break.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0572par0555	You keep talking, I'll pass.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0573par0556	Bravo, Mr. Secretary, bravo! [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] Mr. Sakek has restarted the timeline, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0574par0558	Yes, Mr. Sakek... Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0575par0559	Mr. President, I'm going to repeat the time... (AK PARTY and CHP rows) Mr. President, the time...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0574par0560	I'm going to renew it. Yes, you go ahead. Okay...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0575par0562	Dear friends, actually, Parliament has been talking about these things for a long time, but you're afraid to name the issue, we're afraid. I mean, if only this Kurdish problem had been solved, everyone would have been in politics with the knowledge in their trunks, with their projects. I mean, in Congress today, at this hour from the time it opened, the processes that started in Habur, which went all the way to Oslo, which went all the way to Imralı have been discussed and discussed, and this Parliament has made laws of blood all the time, and these are laws of blood that don't solve our problems. We said, "It doesn't matter." You raised your hand for cross-border operations from here, and all the parties, we said, "That's not going to solve this problem." You can travel there, but there is no victory for the expeditions. You go, you kill innocent people. We said, you didn't listen. You went, and 34 innocent people were killed in Uludere. We should've talked about this. We should've discussed this. If the Justice and Development Party is really talking about an opening, if it's got a plan, a project, we don't have to do secret things. There's nothing hidden under this dome. We don't see each other, sir, my people from MIT are seeing each other, the prime minister's office is seeing each other. We can't cover up this problem by covering it up. The Kurds have a very nice saying: (x) So you can't hide your cup in the back when you're asking for buttermilk. If you want to solve the problem, you have to negotiate clearly. So we say that both sides' suggestions are not realistic. You can't continue negotiations by looking out for someone with new laws, protecting them. So let's come up with a new commission, and let's put together a law that protects and protects this commission, and let this commission start a dialogue and negotiations. These negotiations stop the blood, stop the violence. In the spring, these talks may end the dangers. You are not doing these things, but you are trying to protect and protect the existing members of the MIT today. I told you in the morning, but why didn't the prosecutors one day file a lawsuit against members of the MIT who had been infected with blood on their hands? A man who served as prime minister, we burned the forests with the MIT staff in Greece. Why didn't the prosecutors file a lawsuit? In fact, today's trial is a version of February 28th, a different version of 367. You know that. So if we're going to make a democratic constitution, we have to do it. Turkey needs a democracy of European standards. So if you have a problem with turning around and getting two points, it doesn't solve our problems, it really does lead to violence again. I wish, without fear of the members of the MIT and the government, our delegation should go ahead and continue the negotiations, and behind these talks we are the political authority. In fact, Turkey needs this. Who are you afraid of? You've been going public a few times. After the events of Habur, did you not go to the people, or did you not have a referendum, or did the people not support you? Didn't you get 50 percent of the vote after the general election? Did these people not know that you were in Oslo, and in Imran, and in Kandil, and in Solomoniye? We knew. And these people didn't support you? It does. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the opposition? Let them stay, let them be alone in their politics. Just be brave as long as you have faith and this country needs it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you can do that, I assure you, you'll walk upright in both jihads.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0576par0567	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0575par0569	The rest is a power struggle here. The real problem is solving people's problems. I invite everyone to be sensitive at this point. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0576par0572	Thank you. Mr. Celal Adan is the last speaker in the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Adan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0577par0577	Mr. Secretary, the House is working. Where is the Undersecretary of MIT?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0578par0578	What do you want him to do, arrest him here?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0577par0579	Where? Is he hiding somewhere?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0579par0580	In case he shows up and gets caught...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0580par0581	What's it to you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0577par0582	Then is Ayþe Nur hiding in your house? Where?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0580par0583	Don't joke about me! I told you that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0577par0584	I'll do it when you say what? You can't tell me what's wrong with you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0581par0585	Mr. Slim...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0582par0586	He's on the run from judgment, so don't let him run away from the House. They're running away from judgment, don't run away from the people!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0581par0587	Dear friends, the representative of the government is in position and representatives of the institutions are here. Here you go, Mr. Adan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0583par0589	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you with all due respect. Something just happened that caught my attention. When Mr. Ali expressed some of the issues regarding these Oslo talks, he saw a particularly big reaction from you, but Mr. Sakık was held in the oslo talks, and you didn't react when he said, "Come and have it." The most important thing I'm going to share with you is justice, the greatest treasure of a nation, a state. Today, when we look at justice, we come across a picture like this: Silivri law, Lighthouse law, Habur law, and now we're discussing MIT law. ▪ Did you have to? Did you really have to have these discussions? I really think, and I can't find the answer to that. Now -- just a moment ago Ali Longırmak mentioned -- one day I was listening to the President, and they asked him how long he was going to be, and I assure you, I'm hurt inside, and it'll come out soon. Because of the new year, the President invited the institutions to dinner, and a week later, we face a Turkey in conflict with institutions. Now, valuable lawmakers, if a ten-year-old boy who is today reads today's Turkey, a Chief of General Staff appointed by a ten-year-old power becomes the head of a terrorist organization two years later, his appointed MIT President will be arrested if he is arrested. Why did you bring to us a Turkish conflict between the MIT, the police and the judiciary for a whole week when Syria was really boiling in this delicate period of Turkey? What right did you bring me? I listened to an experienced politician from among you today, who said these expressions on TV, that there is a lot of Syria. He said, "Iraq is boiling." And Turkey is dealing with this. Is the National Movement Party running Turkey? Did someone else run Turkey, and they brought this landscape and put it in front of Turkey? I know those law enforcement officers, they're shiny. We've asked around about the prosecutor, and he's the son of this country, an Anatolian boy. So, the Turkey you're running is Turkey, where everyone's fighting each other. There's an area where you're holed up, and I have a huge objection to that: you've once in a while actually expressed that you're in favor of democracy by fighting with certain institutions of the Turkish state, by doing very good propaganda. In Turkey today, nothing stands a chance but democracy according to Turkey's conditions, the structure of society commands it, but what we experience today, what you experience, what you experience, we are suffering a great deal. You were struck down by the KCK in Istanbul, and you were trapped under the tent in Habur. So you have to come up with a very big heart and say, "We've done wrong in the opening, and we've fallen under that angle." Otherwise, the spokesman of the Peace and Democracy Party will question you in a very cruel way if you don't say so. You've met. He says, Mr. Sakik, there's no answer from any of you. You've met the National Movement Party. When you say that, you're almost willing to stop the speaker of the National Party of Action. So today's landscape is that institutions clash with each other and Turkey has lost dignity... We also saw one other thing: you took the businessmen, you took them to Iraq, you interviewed Saddam, 15 days later Saddam fell; you went to Libya; you said, "Man, the hero!" You said, "We are doing 25 billion, 30 billion dollars." You said, "We are doing business." And then Gaddafi is gone!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0584par0602	They've interviewed us, they've arrested 8,000 of us!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0583par0603	What happened in Syria, what happened in Iraq? Hey, man, get this intel out of the way so they can get you some proper intel. Now don't discuss the importance of the National Intelligence Agency, the importance of police, the importance of the judiciary with us, at once, at any time, these are the most important institutions in Turkey, but justice is wearing out, and national intelligence is wearing out, and I'm sure the state is worn out, and can we live in this geography without a state? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] A person you know very well and care about says that living without a state is living without a religion. So, these things are wrong, you're running Turkey wrong, come on, we're underopened, the expansion is wrong. Say, "Preparation is wrong." And get out of the question.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0585par0607	Thank you, Mr. Adan. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. To the presidency of TBM, 2 of the current Law Proposal 164 rows. We ask that the Interim Article-4 of the Article be changed in the following way. Article 4- As of the date when this Law is in effect, the ongoing investigations and prosecutions do not apply Article 26 provisions. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0586par0615	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0585par0616	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0587par0617	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0585par0618	Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0588par0622	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express the views of the Nationalist Movement Party regarding the amendment to Article 2 of the Law Proposal Regarding Changes in the MIT Law. I salute you all. Now, there's been allegations going around for seven or eight hours. The allegations are far beyond Oslo talks and creepy. For example, it is said that on July 14th, the MIT itself mediated the order of the action that led 13 Mehmetçik. Again, a week after the incident of Silvan, the terrorist leader Ocalan wrote to the organization, "Don't leave weapons, keep fighting." He instructed the group to do so, and the MIT also mediated this letter. It is also alleged that the MİTEC workers who delivered the letters to the PKK did not inform security agencies. In particular, the charge that PKK militants should be police officers in the southeast, that MIT is a mentor in TK construction, that he is a member of the organisers of street activities is not to be swallowed up. Dear MPs, it is Uncle Ali in Anatolia, Uncle Mehmet, Aunt Ayşe, Aunt Fatma, not Aunt Fatma who are saying these allegations that are the prosecutor of the Republic of Turkey, the police department of the Security Directorate of the Republic of Turkey. Now, I'd like to point out from here: Is there any chance that the MIT, which has been exposed to such claims, will be the MET of the state of Turkey? MIT doesn't trust itself? If you're doing the duties the state has given you, go out and give a clear statement to the state's attorney, we've done what the state has entrusted us with. Why are you avoiding this? Are you doing something wrong? WHO has the right to wear it down? The MIT is the country's most important national intelligence agency. Who has the right and authority of the Republic of Turkey to subject the National Intelligence Agency to life-long suspicion by limiting it to laws, laws, protection? Yeah, no one has jurisdiction. Now, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister here says there's no crime committed when you look at what's going on. Where is Bekir Bozdağ sir?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0589par0625	He's in the back.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0588par0626	If you're here, why are you afraid to testify to the prosecutor?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0590par0627	Ask him if he's a prosecutor.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0588par0628	Why are you afraid to testify to the prosecutor? Stay behind your work. Why are you shouting? Yes, I will shout, when our nation is troubled, I will shout. Yeah, you guys sit tight.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0591par0629	The existing law does not allow it, and Article 26 does not allow it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0592par0630	Don't tease Mr. Mahir, don't disturb the council. Look, the Minister is looking at you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0588par0631	Now, I say that no one has the right to wear down MIT, if everyone is going out and testifying in this country. Inside the MIT are the MIT officials standing here, members of the MIT. If any of you are in league with the KCK, and have any trouble with the unity of the land, and with its integrity, clean up immediately. The National Intelligence Agency is the nation's most important institution, and no one has the right to wear it down. Yes, I'm telling the friends of the Justice and Development Party: Look, Mr. Prime Minister, during February 28th, you know, someone came out, drunk of power, and in this country, 28 February will take place. He said, "You are drunk of the same power." Yes, what was he saying, Prime Minister? He said, "We will uphold the rule of law, not the law of the superior. " Today, you're drunk on the same power, in the same intoxication of power, instead of the rule of law, you're presenting the law of your allies, of your comrades. Now, your group vice president just told me. Look, tell people the truth. You screwed up here, in the middle. You went to the people's will in the presidency, you said five plus five, and then, despite the will of the nation, what did you do? Seven years, you did the same thing at the lighthouse. So, I'm telling you from here, you have theorists in you, and they say, "We're going to do the Habur expansion, we're going to do the Kurdish expansion. You've set up tent courts in Habur, you've made openings, you've had interviews with the terrorist leader. Now, I'm running out of time, but I'm telling you, if one of our citizens has a nosebleed in this country because of your practices, it's up to us to answer for it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0636	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0594par0637	Live, live!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0588par0638	You guys look great. Sit down.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0639	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that State Intelligence Services 2/343, which is the main public intelligence services and the amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act, be changed to the "for" of the interim clause added with Article 2 of Framework 2. Does the commission agree, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0595par0645	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0646	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0596par0647	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0597par0648	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0649	I'm reading the reason: It is intended to use a more appropriate language of expression. I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion to vote in the form of an open vote on Article 2 of the proposal. I'll have the motion read and call the signers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of the proposed proposal be voted openly. Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, Isparta? Here. Durush Ali Torlak, Istanbul?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0598par0660	I'm recuperating.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0661	Instead of Oktay Vural, yes. Oktay Ozturk?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0599par0663	I'm recuperating, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0664	Here, in your place. Reşat Right, Slap?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0600par0666	I'm recuperating.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0667	Instead, here, yes. Münir Kutluata, Sakarya? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir? Here. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ? Here. Necati Özensoy, Bursa? Here. Mustafa Kalaycı, Konya? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Enver Erdem, Elazig? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0601par0680	I'm recuperating.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0681	He's recuperating, Mr. Glory, yes. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0602par0684	I'm recuperating.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0593par0685	Sure Haluk Ayhan, Denizli? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who say yes... those who refuse... are agreed, we will vote with an electronic voting device. I'm giving you two minutes to vote, and I'm asking our members who can't get into the system in the foreseeable time to ask the technical staff for help, and I'm asking the members who can't get into the system to deliver the ballots to the presidency within a two-minute period scheduled to vote. I would also like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be delivered to the presidency within a two-minute period of voting, which includes the color of the game and its name and signature. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, the open vote of Article 2 of Law Proposal No. 164 is the result of the open vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 329 [[x]] In this way, Article 2 is accepted. Congressmans, I'm now reading Article 3 of the article: MADDE 3- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. In the name of the groups on the matter, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Turgut Dibek is a member of the 40s. Here you go, Mr. Dibek. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0603par0704	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have been promised the Republican People's Party Group on Article 3. First of all, I salute you. Dear friends, I don't know, I haven't counted how many hours we've been working, but I think it's been six or seven hours since we've been talking about this law. Of course, there's no point in making a legal assessment of this law. So the law was completely ignored, eliminated, destroyed. There's a temporary clause, it's just been accepted. I mean, I don't know, if you read it carefully, my dear friends, you forgot that exception when you brought it to the Commission, when it came to the Commission, they added it. I looked at another addition today. But while you were there, trying to save Hakakan Fidan, not to testify, you added the prosecution process to the investigation. Of course, when we thought of him, we made an assessment with our dear friends: "I mean, where did this prosecution come from? I mean, our lawyer friends know. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Dear friends, I mean, the investigation process is separate, in the process of trial, so how will these provisions be carried out, how will they go back to the beginning? Of course, we thought, either there's a Hakan Fidan who's being tried, there's a Hakan Fidan who's being tried, who's probably being tried, and we don't know one more; either you brought this for him, or you put it in there with the investigation without realizing it. Something like that. So talking about law doesn't mean anything here. Friends, in fact, all the spokesmen told me why the law was brought in. There are things I'd like to complete, dear friends, to make this photo better, to make it look better. All the AKP spokesmen, including Mr. Prime Minister, have always said: "When this Oslo talks comes out... it doesn't go back... so Mr. Secretary Bozdağ here has just said something to the valued friends: "How can you expect such things from the Prime Minister?" How do you expect him to be a worthy man, a faithful man of the sevens, to stand up here and do something that will not benefit the country? But, dear friends, this is the Prime Minister, before the general elections, before the referendum, didn't he lie openly, openly, publicly, in front of the people, not openly, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0604par0711	No, he never did.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0603par0712	The footage of the MIT is on my phone. I'll make you watch them. We don't sit at the table, we don't negotiate, we don't meet at Samsun, we don't negotiate, we don't sit at the table with the terrorist organization. Didn't the Republican People's Party tell you that you're the trumpeter of the Republic? I expected from Mr. Prime Minister: If it is what you say it is, he would have brought it before the election to our people. Yes, we are seeing each other, the government will see each other. You say that, and I will come there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0605par0714	Our meeting is separate, the government is separate...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0603par0715	Oh, the government sees, we see, anyway... the Prime Minister, friends, who? What does Hakan Fidan tell PKK terrorists in Oslo? One sentence at a time, not so much -- the fear came from there, as I understand it -- I'll read it. But he didn't say it, he didn't say it. The usual way, call it what you will. So, we suspect what the Prime Minister is going to do, dear friends, anything can be done, but look, when does a state meet with terrorist organizations all over the world, precious friends? There have been examples of this, and it has happened in England. Now, when will he see you? The terrorist organization has left weapons, has given up terrorism. Then you sit down, and you say, okay, let's sit down, look, the terror's over, we're going through a new process, social conditions, conditions have come to a different level, let's talk about it. Is there such a thing now? When we read about these Oslo talks, did the terrorist organization have any explanation for the fact that I left the gun? What I'm about to read is something the Sun says there about our army, in what dimension. Or something like this: he didn't leave a gun, but under the provisions issued by the Constitutional Prime Minister, the powers vested in the government, friends, we all know, we all know. I mean, how many of you have read it now that there's a KCK contract? Open it up, download it off the Internet. When you look at what it is, it's the constitution of a state. They've got everything up to the Supreme Election Board, law, execution, judgment, money, flag, court, private security, education, elections. Take a look at the TK contract, read it. Dear friends, with that extent, the government now has officials of the MIT, or those who are authorized by the Prime Minister, go to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and drop the gun in this constitutional framework, give up this terror, but this country has indivisible integrity, this country has constitutional rules, institutions, judiciary. Anyway, what did the bride say in front of the judge? Have we seen such an interview, prepared friends? Our president and we have a saying from time to time: the state, yes, meets when it comes to it, but it meets this dimension, that's what we're trying to say. Either the terrorist organization has dropped the gun at that point, or as I said, you sit down and agree to 95 percent of the road map that Abdullah Ocalan drew, and we agree. There, in Oslo talks, the prosecutor will ask. Although Fikret Seferen, after this prosecutor was dismissed the other day, the attorney general got up and said something. He said: "There are no government policies and Oslo talks in this investigation." No, friends, that's the bottom line, that's the bottom line. I'll read you a few things, not much. See, now, Hakan Fidan says that when the political content needed to be moved to a different dimension, our Prime Minister put me in charge of it. There's another meeting of himself that says: "It doesn't matter where I think -- I continue -- because you see that 90 to 95% have come to a general line that's combined with all the issues. " What do you know about them, dear friends, what do you understand? I'll continue. Now, Sabri Ok is saying something, he says... that in dialogue with the Sun, Sabri Ok: we want this problem solved as soon as possible, not in six years, not seven years. What does the Disaster Sun say, dear friends: either way we look at it, you have a simple set of demands within the parameters of the solution. There is a large scale from demands to the release of Ocalan (Ecalan) from constitutional amendments. When we consider the demands, there's a very large scale. There is no way that these can be completed in three months, five months, eight months, a year. We need time, we'll complete it all, and I understand that, so everyone in the middle mind understands that. Dear friends, are there any words in these Oslo talks that we've given up the gun, and now we've given up the acts of terror? But the precious friends, Afet Sun, says that the army does not have a planned operation now. We say that the state that left the gun is not the PKK, they did not leave it, and we say that to them as we go to the meeting, there is no planned operation that the army is doing now. Dear friends, that's the rush. Look, this is the photo. Mr. Prime Minister... Oh, there's something else here. I jumped. Hakan Fidan is saying something else, he says: Mr. Prime Minister is taking a risk, a risk. In the AKP, there are people in the Council of Ministers -- dear friends -- who say they're against him. I'll tell you that. But there are a number of ministers around here who say that my presence here in my position and my name is a very serious risk zone for the government. He says that there are a lot of people who object to this conduct within the AKP, which is within you, and within the government, to the removal of this process. Even so, the Prime Minister took a risk and took responsibility. Dear friends, this is the size of the photograph. Look, the D.A.'s already telling us, it's in the documents that have been recovered. What did he do, Mr. Prime Minister, what did he do, dear friends? He said, "Go there and we'll figure this out politically." And in order to solve it politically, there it is, all solutions set out in the KCK contract and spoken in protocols will be implemented. It has been said. These are violations of our Constitution, constitutional crimes. Mr. Prime Minister is also aware of this, my dear friends, he is aware of this, but let me tell you -- this law -- short term, ending -- saves Hakan Fidan, the investigation phase, the prosecution process -- I just told you, maybe you have another Hakan Fidan, because you included the prosecution, I don't know, but it won't save the Prime Minister. Believe me, this law does not save the Prime Minister. Why not? If there is a crime, if there is a crime, dear friends, if there is a third joke of the 257th article, if there are 250th article, if there are special prosecutors standing there, if there is a crime, Hakan Fidan has already said it in Oslo, and Afet Sun has spoken it in Oslo, there is no need for their testimony. The prosecutor takes it, he calls the Prime Minister, he takes his statement, he conducts a trial. You'll have to make a law for him, too, dear friends to me. This law does not save the Prime Minister. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I didn't have enough time, and I'll tell you something else...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0606par0726	Mr. Dibek, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0603par0727	Wait a minute, Mr. President... My dear friends, do you need this Law on the Protection of Ataturk? Hussein Çelik says, from time to time, your friends say. Are you aware that today you have brought the law to protect Hakan Fidan? I couldn't help but say that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0606par0730	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sırrıyya Önder, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0607par0734	Mr. President, valued members, in the early 1980s, I'm going to tell you a story from Mardin. A teacher living under the tyranny of Diyarbakır Prison or Diyarbakir Tyranny named his newborn daughter Mizgin. In those years, those names were very popular among the Kurds -- which means "Mizgin" means "Müjde," meaning "Baver," meaning "Believing." People wanted to be hopeful and get good news. In this state of spirit, they called their children that, but when his child was three months old, his father and his mother were persecuted, they went to the mountain. It's a real human story and that Oscar story I was talking about. They went to the mountain, and this girl was four years old, and she sent letters to her daughter with tape tapes that were common at the time until she was five years old. Four years later, these tapes were cut, too. The Carabinieri kept raiding this village, raiding this house, looking for terrorists. You use it here indiscriminately, terrorist, terrorist, and when we don't say it, you sound like that. When this girl started elementary school, the teacher asked her, as she asked everyone: "What does your father do?" My father said he was a terrorist. The girl had heard nothing but a terrorist description of her father. He grew up knowing his grandparents. She was very successful at her school and won a film-related university. He came to Istanbul. In Istanbul, this friend and I crossed paths. You could call him a teacher-student, you could call him a traveling companion. Our friend made two short films first. I noticed that there was a great deal of emotion and trouble in your films. It came together as a sense of cinema, but the characters never spoke in either film. It's like 2004, 2005. Why don't they talk? When I say Mizgin, the teacher says, "If they speak, they will speak Kurdish." Then why are you asking me if Kurdish is a civilized language today? You said it's not a civilized language. You said it's the same understanding, then who said it's a civilized language? Look at the order of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Bulent Arinc sitting right next to the Prime Minister said. Now, ignoring a human is more violence than killing, ignoring it. Is it a civilized language in your language, in your mother's language, in your mother's language? You don't think it's something to do with your dignity, so just a little empathy. Let's get back to the story. Our friend was later elected to the Erivan Film Festival, and he went to Erivan for the competition. When he went to Erivan, he met two young filmmakers from Mahmur. Did you know Kemal Hoxha? He asked a question. Those two boys we know, he was our father. They said. So what you're saying is that it's random, that you're saying that it's an opening, that it's actually thought of the 10,000 Kurds that you've migrated from this land that you've been living in in Mahmur, to bring them back to their home, to their homes, to their homes, not to travel there or to their pleasure, they've been invaded, they've been evacuated. He was our father. He hurriedly asked, "How is your father?" So he was our teacher because he was injured, teaching us Kurdish to those children. What happened now? They said he died in a bombing. This friend came back to me, and said, "What should I do now?" He had two or three roads ahead of him. If this girl had gone to the mountain, what conscience would have said, "Why did you go to the mountain, brother?" His father died there with an attacker after the persecution of Diyarbakır, where he died in the bombing with one of the articles of war, which was probably randomly approved in the previous Parliaments, and she told me, "What should I do?" I said, "Mizgin, make your film." Mizgin decided to make the movie. Of course, it's not a word dialogue, I'm just saying it to meet the deadline. He wrote a story called the Lost Grave, and as a cinematographer of a friend named Özay, he was a filmmaker who lived with our friend, who lived in Germany, and was shown films at important festivals -- and in a collective solidarity, he also became a film director, and they wanted to film it with a figure. We didn't have any money. I applied to the Ministry of Culture for a project, I got $300,000, I took it back without withdrawing it, I returned that $300,000, plus interest, because I found a producer in my film, and I took that money for myself. I vouched for Mizgin, went to the Ministry of Culture, and his story was backed by the Ministry of Culture. Mizgin started filming, and this brother, whom you heard as the Mizgin News lion, was taken into custody in the KCK operations the day before yesterday. 100 filmmakers met at the speed that perhaps they had never met for any other work, and that much from abroad, because the West, which has this kind of feeling in festivals, now consumes its story, recognizes jobs that have a story, a problem, and realism. If I had this conversation with you before 4:00 today, Mizgin would've been inside. They evacuated these two of our friends. Now, I really don't want to do any emotional abuse. All my honor, all my honor, that I could vouch for, that I witnessed an important part of his life, and that I should go to the mountain? When he came to me, he could have been thrown into prison for a very comfortable five or six months, as if I were begging him to turn his energy, his anger, his integrity, into art. That's what special jurisdictional courts are like. Probably two phone calls... Now, can Mizgin keep making that movie? I'm not sure. I hope it goes on. That's just what you call being taken into custody by the Turkish Cypriots, the Minister of the Interior, who you claim to have infiltrated MIT, said: "We've made a thousand arrests." Another Minister said 1,100, and Hüseyin Çelik confirmed it. You described a thousand of them as spies, one of which was a small story. Negotiate with the mountain, Habur, Oslo, whichever one you dig up, you'll see a burning human story behind it. A mountain is not an empty place, it's not a place to retreat, it's not a place to live. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this snow, in winter, it's the greatest tyranny in the world to his soldier there and his guerrilla. There's a great human story behind it. What's to be done... I beg your patience, Mr. President, one more moment.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0608par0755	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0607par0756	Thank you. What's to be done, the ultimate, is not going anywhere with these scenarios. You two power components fight, they unite, they move towards this movement, they break until one; they may not leave a head on a stone on a stone. It's been done in the past, but there's a public truth in the middle. There's still a demand to use a language that's been discussed today that's civilized, and a lot of things like that. You'll sit down, brother. It'll be for our common future, it won't happen. We haven't said that yet. So I'm going to -- I'm going to -- I'm going to ask you all to think for a moment that in these TK arrests, in these special authorities, in these cracks called courts, all of them, a house, a furnace is a mine for a great grudge, and nothing else is useful. I want to thank you all for listening, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0609par0761	Thank you, Mr. Commander. The third speaker for the groups, Mr. Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, is a member of the Isparta MP. Mr. Korkmaz, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0766	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the universal principles of criminal law: A man's innocence is fundamental until proven guilty, and everyone has the right to defend himself against the accused. So, where do you propose these rights? Of course, in the courts that decide for the people. The privilege of making decisions for the nation, dear friends, was given to parliament and courts according to our Constitution, not to the administration, not to the Prime Minister and ministers. These authorities must carry out their duties according to the Constitution and the existing laws. What are you guys doing? You take this authority from the courts that make decisions on behalf of the people, and you put it under the executive's permission. When you came to power in 2002, you were the one who promised the emergency action plan to remove all the protections that have created a privileged class among the citizens. From where to where? I assume that's your idea of a high-profile democracy. You didn't ask for that privilege, for example, for the soldiers, the police, who were put in prison a while ago. Some are self-substantiated, some are foster children? Or have you classified these institutions as "not from you" or "not from you"? Why didn't you, as the Justice and Development Party, present this maternal attitude for the others? Is it possible that without your government or the Prime Minister's influence on the nerve endings, that's the explanation of your efforts, or the fear that these dark deeds may go as far as the Prime Minister? There are some very serious allegations. This needs to be discovered. As Mr. Bekir Bozdağ said, my dear, these are intelligence officers. In order to infiltrate the organization, he has to commit crimes and appear to be one of them, but these men, soldiers, have not killed or been involved in the act of terror. Besides, they did not do it, they did not do it. Their actions can only be understood by investigation and trial if they really did it. It's interesting that you deny it before you do it, that you vouch for it without research, without study, even worse. Then we have the right to ask the question, how do you know all this? Where are you in all this, Mr. Bozdağ? Intelligence requires expertise. The National Intelligence Agency is doing intelligence. We're bringing them special status. You call them that. The police are doing intel. Armed forces have intel, too. There's MASAK investigating financial crimes. Do you consider such protection for them? Tomorrow, will you block the path of judgment for them as well? In what democratic law state, but these are patriotic people. What are they called? Aren't our soldiers, our police, patriots? Is that a diagnosis? What kind of logic is that? When we tell the public about the 2010 constitutional amendment, we even open warning and reprimand sentences to judicial supervision. We're expanding the liberty of seeking justice. You've been propaganda and asking the public for approval. The administration must be accountable, transparent. You said in the squares. So, what made you want to limit your judgment? Because the flames are around the roof, they're heading for the Prime Minister, and you're trying to stop it in a hurry. In fact, you're obstructing justice while you're at it. So, dear friends, you're committing another crime. You don't think you're gonna get paid for all this? People are anxious, anxious. MIT is not a common institution, it is vital to the safety of the state. Our people want to believe in this institution, trust in it; they want to sleep well at night, make sure that it comes. We always said until yesterday, there was salt, if it smelled of meat, now it smells of salt. All claims need to be made clear, otherwise, in the eyes of the nation, the MIT and those who instruct it will all be shady, all of which will be blamed for aiding the terrorist organization, aiding the abetting activities. Dear MPs, intelligence is an essential element of security and order, one of the most important tasks of the state. To be informed without incident is to be able to make precautions before it happens, that's what the modern state requires. But intelligence is never about lawlessness, it's not about loose ends, and it's not about pleasure at all. Aren't you the one who strips a little bit of political abuse to bring up unsolveds, possible illegal activities within the state often, and even aim for the rule of law, not the law of the superior? What is it you're doing, obviously, is turning the state's organization against the law, not building secret affairs within the state? What's true, what you said yesterday or what you did today? If you block the trial, will you be doing these institutions, the government, a favor? No, you were playing with bells every time, in operations like Ergenekon, Sledgehammer, Andic, etc. You say you're running, we're getting clean. Now you've stepped on your feet, and you're yelling? Let the allegations be investigated, examined, perhaps in fact, the suspects will be cleared and acquitted in court. Why do you take this opportunity from people? Why are you in such a hurry to smuggle stuff out of a fire? What are you afraid of, what are you afraid of? Furthermore, if such a legal change is necessary, this decision cannot be a simple decision, and it is closely related to the way you govern. After receiving the opinion of bureaucracy and legal circles and considering all the developments in the world, a draft could be brought in. In a hurry, the crows were offered their breakfast. Who gave it to you? Isparta MP Recep Special. I can't tell you anything about our dear friend, he's a kind friend. But as far as I know, this friend has no public service, no government knowledge, no experience with intelligence agencies and their work. As far as I know him, security, intelligence information is all about watching 007 James Bond movies on TV. Indeed, our House would like to know what kind of work and work has he put forward on such an important matter and has prepared this law that is closely involved in the state's safety concept and its duties? Apparently, the offer was set up somewhere, and it was handed to him in the middle of the night, and he was asked to sign for it. Our fellow citizens of Isparta have asked me to ask the following questions: 20 percent of Isparta has been emptied in ten years, and 102 thousand people have migrated. We're top of the country on this. According to ISKUR records in six years, our unemployment has doubled. Our factories have been shut down. There are trillions of dollars of bankrupt loans. 3. The Executive Office has been opened. He's never moved a hair on his own province, not the slightest offer on his own province, not the Parliament's motion to investigate, Mr. Special. As Isparta lost its economic altitude, its population sat down and watched as it fell rapidly, like a plain citizen. Then one night, he dreamt about it, and he made me an offer like this. What I ask of you, Mr. Private, is that he listens to the problems of our fellow citizens who vote for him and live in hardship rather than to think about things he doesn't know. I don't suppose the authority given him by our Ispartan countrymen is to take someone off the stand? If you're going to save someone, save the Ispartas from their difficult circumstances. For example, bring up vital issues such as the encouragement of Isparta, the support of agriculture and livestock, the removal of taxes on agricultural inputs. Isparta expects this from him as the ruling party MP. You'll be the stepson of power as Isparta, and they'll make you sign what they can't get anyone to sign.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0611par0776	You're really being rude!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0777	My dear fellowman, you'll ruin yourself and Isparta. Yeah...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0611par0778	It's a shame, but it's a shame!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0779	Yeah, I'll explain to you who's being rude. He just arrived, he gave us a lesson in law earlier this evening, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0611par0780	You're making it personal!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0781	Look, I want you to take a good look at this picture.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0612par0782	I'm here, I'm here, I'm here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0613par0784	You'll be here, you'll be here, your offer's been discussed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0785	Look, I want you to take a good look at this picture. What's in this picture? The Mayor of Sharkikarapolis of the Justice and Development Party was sentenced to two and a half years for counterfeiting, and he can't be locked up. You know why, guys? You're asking the police...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0614par0787	Yes, sir, your time is up, please wrap it up, wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0788	Sir, I want the right given to the speaker just now.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0615par0789	You didn't just give it to me.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0614par0790	For God's sake! Oh, that's great!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0791	Yes, the execution of this punishment for the mayor of Şarkikarpalk cannot be carried out.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0615par0792	Mr. President, I need a minute, you didn't give it to me.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0793	Why? The police say: "I can't find it. I can't find it, it's being asked to the state. I can't find it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0616par0794	Talk about matter!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0795	Look, this is our friend, Mr. Recep, and he's together at a wedding in Isparta.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0616par0796	It's so simple!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0610par0797	Let him come out and explain this, and then we're ready to hear his law class. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0617par0800	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0618par0801	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0617par0802	Please welcome Mr. Special... [AK PARTY rows; MHP rows (Bravo)!) Their voices, applause (!) Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0619par0804	Your bill is being discussed, you're not on the General Assembly, Mr. Special!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0620par0807	Mr. President, a dear MP, a friend of mine from the opposition as an Isparta MP, said that we should improve the quality of local politics and the politics of Isparta, while saying that it is appropriate for our Isparta to say that it is unpolitic, ungentle...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0621par0809	He's gonna learn from you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0622par0810	Look, explain this to me!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0620par0811	...that we're not capable of this ability, that we're not in the state experience, that we're not, by taking the right to live and propose law, which is the primary duty of the public defender...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0623par0813	You answer the questions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0624par0814	There's a picture of you, what morality are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0625par0815	Please listen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0626par0816	I was also a member of parliament here in the 22nd term; we have had serious, major contributions to the drafting of the Penal Code in the Justice Commission. Of course, in doing all of this, he cannot say that we have neglected Isparta.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0627par0818	What did you do about Isparta, what law did you offer?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0625par0820	Yes, please don't talk to me.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0627par0821	Which law did you propose, which Parliamentary research did you bring? What problem did you have with Isparta?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0628par0823	About Isparta, please.. (MHP rows) What was the purpose of this proposal, I just came in here 20 minutes ago, and if you don't understand, you might want to go get some of your intelligence checked out.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0629par0824	Did you get your brains checked out?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0628par0825	I see myself in the ability to propose this law. The court has made a decision regarding the mayor you claim, our party has been discharged, dismissed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0630par0826	You're with him, he can't be locked up!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0628par0827	You're still standing behind us, saying you're running for Congress, even though Isparta County President of the MPHP is under arrest.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0631par0829	He's acquitted, he's out.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0632par0830	He's not in once, he's been released without a trial!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0628par0831	For gang crime, corruption in tenders, the Isparta DP Mayor has been on trial for nearly a hundred years, and for the mayor of Isparta as an MPP...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0633par0832	First of all, you're not under arrest, you're lying!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0632par0833	You're lying, because he's out there!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0628par0834	He has a trial on March 17th. Isn't he from MHP?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0634par0837	Please, please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0628par0838	I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0634par0840	Mr. Special, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0635par0841	You're a criminal, you've got a conscience! You got a court or you got a conscience!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0636par0843	You're lying!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0635par0844	You're running around with fugitives, forgers! You're saying you're under arrest!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0637par0845	Shame! Shame!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0638par0846	It's been 20 days, 20 days, he's been released!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0639par0848	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0640par0849	Come in, Mr. Korkmaz, your seat, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0639par0850	There's bullying, Mr. President, from the stand...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0640par0851	That's where you've divided up half your conversation. Please, in two minutes, let's not do too much. (whispers) Please, please, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0639par0852	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0640par0853	Mr. Korkmaz, please don't challenge too much in two minutes... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0639par0857	Yes, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, just now, look, instead of coming here and answering a claim I made with the newspaper clippings and photographs and informing the Turkish Grand National Assembly correctly...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0641par0858	You take care of these corrupt people.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0639par0859	...who targeted me as to why he signed the National Intelligence Service Act, sir, to political courtesy...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0642par0861	He never said anything about you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0643par0862	You're the target!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0644par0863	Congressmans, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0645par0864	...unrespected views have been expressed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0644par0866	Let's hear it, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0645par0867	Look, sir, Mr. Special, you just said from here that you know very well that the mayor of the county has been evacuated before he's even been put on trial.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0646par0868	How many years is he on trial?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0647par0869	He's kidnapping people from the judiciary! You're making a legal offer to kidnap a man from a trial!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0645par0870	You know very well. Look, you know very well, and here you will apologize not only to me, but to Isparta, but also to the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0646par0871	Why should I apologize?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0645par0872	Look, I'm gonna make sure you get this everywhere you go. Now, I want you to come back here and give the Grand National Assembly of Turkey the right information, especially about this mayor. I want you to explain to me why this man was not brought to justice, why his execution was not carried out. And until I do, I'm definitely going to tell you what you're doing to your face every time I go. I'll say it every time I'm around...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0646par0873	Don't say it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0645par0874	I'm going to charge you with mufteurism. (MHP cheers) If you're ready for this, you're up for it! All right!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0646par0875	I'm ready!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0645par0876	My name is Nevzat. He will not be afraid. From now on, I will trouble you with Isparta.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0648par0878	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0649par0879	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0650par0880	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0649par0881	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0651par0882	Mr. President, I'd like word on Article 60.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0650par0883	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0652par0884	He threatened me, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0653par0885	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Okay, just a minute, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0654par0888	Tell me about this photo, Recep!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0655par0890	Guys, first of all, we're sorry to keep you busy with this Isparta thing at this time of night.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0656par0891	You're gonna have to apologize a lot.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0655par0892	But Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz, here... yes, the mayors have been evacuated.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0656par0893	Why did you lie?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0655par0894	I've just been here to see how many years they've been tried for, for municipal tenders, for related corruption...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0657par0895	Why are you lying to all these people?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0655par0896	Nevzat Korkmaz, who are you? Who are you to offend me with Isparta?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0658par0898	You'll see!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0659par0899	What do you serve?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0658par0900	You'll see!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0660par0901	You take care of yourself first. Who are you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0658par0902	You'll see!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0660par0903	You've compressed the politics of Yalvaç, you've painted an MP who doesn't go to any district of Isparta, but we, ourselves, after a decision to condemn a mayor of our party, were expelled from our party, but you, despite the fact that you have prepared so many allegations and indictments for your mayor, are still behind us in future conventions? That's what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0661par0904	You tell the picture, the picture!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0662par0905	The judge ordered an evacuation before he even went to trial!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0660par0906	That's all we say.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0663par0907	Where do you keep the mayor of Sharkkar tree? Say it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0664par0908	Where did you hide that mayor, hiding him in your house?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0660par0909	We do our politics with our chests up all over Isparta. So far, no one's ever signed under...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0665par0912	Thank you, Mr. Special. Now, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0914	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0665par0915	No, right now...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0916	There's disinformation here, misinformation. I've got some things to fix. I want words according to 60.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0667par0917	It's not about you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0665par0918	Here, fix it in a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0921	Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. Mr. Nevzat, MP of the National Movement Party, has just made some statements concerning the mayor of Şarkikarataç. This is a crime against our friend, a crime he committed when he wasn't the mayor.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0668par0923	You did it for the mayor!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0924	For that day... allow me... it wasn't the mayor.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0669par0925	Why did you even nominate that guy?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0926	Later, while he was still on the case, he was in the elections in 2004, as well as in 2009. In the process of this trial, he has been re-elected as mayor by the nation. Meanwhile, while this case continues, look, while the case continues, despite the fact that the crime is not related to a municipal service, our Home Secretary Bashir Atalay has been suspended from office...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0669par0927	A year later.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0928	...but today a mayor who's fallen into the deep end in Isparta, and has fallen completely because of matters related to the City Hall, and a mayor whose case is currently under way.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0670par0929	You're gonna tell me about going down.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0671par0930	You're gonna have to figure out how to go down, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0931	I'm inviting the Home Office to take over from here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0671par0932	I need you to take over the loan and tell me how much you have in your safe right now. That's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0666par0933	The Ministry of Internal Affairs is concerned with the threat of tampering with evidence.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0672par0936	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0673par0937	Explain.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0672par0938	Now, dear friends, may I have your attention for a moment?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0674par0939	Batak saved the city, Mayor, you're lying.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0675par0940	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0672par0941	Oh, wait a minute, guys, your friend wants a word, just a minute of peace... Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0675par0943	Sir, Isparta used the word "batak" about the mayor's office. Isparta is the mayor of the National Movement Party. I want to right the wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0672par0944	Fix your position.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0675par0946	Mr. President, thank you. Now, of course, we had friends who were taken from it when I said, "Songwood." They have expressed themselves, a crime he committed prior to the election. Of course, the friends who nominated him need an explanation that he's out there, he's made a promise. That's how the friends who nominated him are trying to settle his guilt. Now, the municipality of Isparta, called the Batak municipality of Isparta, has received 130 trillion lira loans from the Justice and Development Party, cleared up all debts, and is currently doing services that the Justice and Development Party has not been able to do in five years. The mayor of the former Justice and Development Party, Isparta, was also sentenced to two and a half years in prison. You must explain all this not to me, but to Isparta and to Isparta. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0676par0950	Thank you. [[Continue]] Congressmans, on behalf of their members on the matter, Mr. Hakan Sergeantoglu, Mr. Bursa MP. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0677par0960	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the esteemed MPs, State Intelligence Services No. 164 rows in session, and the Proposal for the Amendment to the National Intelligence Service Act. I hereby salute your high council. Congressmans, as you know, State Intelligence Services 2937 and the National Intelligence Service Act are a special law that regulates the basic and procedures for the establishment, mission and activities of the National Intelligence Agency with the use and employment of state intelligence. The National Intelligence Agency is responsible for developing and developing strategies and information on all threats from within and outside for the existence of our country, its independence, its security and its constitutional order. In short, the mission and responsibilities of the MIT have a unique and distinctive position compared to other public institutions that carry out their duties and duties. The mission and responsibilities of the MIT are crucial to the sovereignty and support of the state. For this reason, it is a fact that the National Intelligence Agency can't give up this mission effectively, efficiently, quickly while doing its duty. Of course, he'll do it with his own hands while the National Intelligence Agency is serving. At this point, the fact that the members of the institution are subject to a direct prosecution for the crimes alleged to have been carried out during the duties required by the services of the service may lead to setbacks in carrying out the mission and damage to public authority's dignity. As a matter of fact, in order to address such inconveniences, to protect officers and other public officials against false charges and slanders, the administration has been developed to investigate the crimes they alleged to be committed before prosecution of the judicial authorities and according to the conclusion of this study. This situation has been secured under the last joke of Article 129 of our Constitution. In our country, the most comprehensively organised text for public service to be conducted without fail is the Law on the Law on the Court of Officers, which was adopted and implemented in 1913. The current response of this Law is the Law on Judgement of Officers 4483 and other Public Servants. Members of lawmakers, it is unthinkable for members of the National Intelligence Service to be given additional regulations for officers number 4483 and other Public Officers to be tried in comparison to the activities conducted by the members of the general public services, while some of the additional regulations for the country's existence, its independence, its security and constitutional order are not foreseen in Law 4483. As a matter of fact, when the Law on the Officer's Court is in effect, State Intelligence Services No. 2937 and the Law on National Intelligence have demonstrated the will to issue the same kind of judgment on the existing Article of the Law on the State Intelligence Agency, in which the lawmaker would be subject to a disparity in the rights of the MSI members. As a matter of fact, the legislator used this will in accordance with the law in the MIT Law, in which the nature of any other law was born. For this reason, he is subject to the Prime Minister's permission to investigate crimes charged with the nature of the mission's activities. The proposal for a change is in place, and it's in the necessity of the law. The proposal, on the other hand, is alleged to be in violation of the Constitution's Article 138. It is not possible to participate in these allegations. It is also inevitable that changes in punishment or criminal trial will affect the situation of those who have been investigated and prosecuted in some cases. In contrast to the claim that the proposed amendment constitutes a violation of the Constitution's Article 138, the amendment is a requirement of the final joke of Article 129 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0678par0969	You're dismissing judgment.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0679par0970	Mr. Sergeant, thank you. The second speaker is Mr. Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP. Mr. Akgun, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0680par0974	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the Law Proposal. I hereby salute your high council. My dear friends, we're discussing an important law proposal. Different assessments are made in public over the proposal for a change. The MIT Act was adopted in 1983. When we look at the law, under the law, the Undersecretary of the MIT Agency is based directly on the Prime Minister's office. Again, under the Law, the Undersecretary of MIT has been made clear in the Law, which cannot be held accountable to anyone or the office except the Prime Minister, because of the 7th article, because of his duties. In the 21st article of the MIT Law again, the Undersecretary of MIT is called responsible to the Prime Minister for the spending of secret service costs. It appears that the organization structure of the Undersecretary of the MIT is entirely a structure of the Prime Minister. For this reason, the 26th Amendment of the Law has been subject to the Prime Minister's permission to be investigated for alleged crimes committed by members of the MIT, which means the Prime Minister's permission is not new. Since 1983, all prime ministers have used this permit authority. Is it a bad authority given to the Prime Minister when he is given to his country as he is given to the other prime ministers, a loving, loyal, loyal Prime Minister? It is not possible to accept and understand this logic.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0681par0979	What missions are they assigned to?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0680par0980	Besides, the procedure regarding the Prime Minister's permission is an administrative procedure, and the administrative judiciary against this process is always open. In fact, this law is repetitive and strengthens the condition of permission. A motion issued during the General Assembly has been made clear and the declaration of those assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special task has been eliminated. My dear friends, government intelligence activities are important and confidential. Unlike military, police and government institutions, jobs are being carried out. As a rule, we are obliged to employ members within criminal organizations. Therefore, there is a declaration of the nature of the mission that has not been passed in any other law in the MIT Law. The people in office are working at risk for the national security of the state and the interests of the country. Therefore, they are protected by special provisions in the MIT Law. As a result, the Prime Minister's permission is bound to investigate the crimes committed in the 26th article of the Law and the crimes committed in the nature of the mission. The law grants it to a elected Prime Minister, not to an appointed one, because it is the Prime Minister who is politically responsible for the security policy against the nation. My dear friends, for a moment, the crimes within the scope of the CMC 250 and 251 have been claimed to have direct prosecutor's authority to investigate, but the CMK has been activated in 2005. Later, after 2005, an adjustment was made in the MIT Law. Again, the Prime Minister's permission has not been touched. If the legislator had a different will, he would have eliminated the Prime Minister's permit for this change. As a matter of fact, prosecutors have been allowed to conduct a direct investigation of people who have made a wiretap activity in the MIT Law and who have violated the rules of hiding and protecting the information obtained and have not been touched by Article 26. Therefore, the change in the MIT Law, which took effect after the CMC's date of execution 2005, is the new law, and the requirement for the approval of the Prime Minister of Article 26 of this new law has been maintained by the lawmaker. Therefore, the thesis of the 251st article, which applies to 26 articles, lacks its basis. My dear friends, looking down at us all the time, we will surely answer to the friends who say, "We have not done anything wrong in front of our nation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0682par0985	You don't know what you're doing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0680par0986	We've always come here with an account, but we've got a holiday shirt ready for politics, and we've got a death row shirt ready. Let's go! Let's go!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0683par0988	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. Talks are completed on behalf of groups and individuals on the subject. Now, according to Article 72 of the Civil Code, there is a motion on the matter. 3 of the Law Proposal 164 rows. Article 72 of the discussion on the subject. We provide and propose that the clause be carried out accordingly. There has been a process in which the İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office has called on the National Intelligence Agency officials to testify and has turned into an interagency crisis. In the process of judicial action, the executive body was involved, and a law proposal brought the matter before the legislature. This is a violation of the civil code of law. A) Parliamentary Civil Charter 40. It includes the sentence "proposals to the presidency will be sent to the Prime Minister immediately." Has the proposal been sent to the Prime Minister? Has the Prime Minister made a distribution to relevant institutions and organizations? Is the agency and the agencies' opinion on the proposal collected? As a result, the offer is not clear whether it is appropriate or not. B) The tender of the proposal is incomplete. There have been allegations of unconstitutional breach of the Constitution regarding this law. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission must have its opinion. In addition, since there is an agency law, the Commission for Law, Plan and Budget should be discussed in the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence. Therefore, it is not in accordance with the Civil Code provisions that the proposal for a change should be discussed only in the Justice Commission. C) Since there is a court order and a judicial process, the Constitution's "interview" is 138. It's against matter. The National Intelligence Agency Act is 26. Its clause is tied to the Prime Minister's permission to prosecute the MIT Mensup. However, C. M. K 250. The Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, and the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice shall be held in exception to this law. It is not possible to talk about a lack of regulation in the face of these provisions. The bidder has already stated that he has made an offer, rather than a norm gap, because of the interpretation. If there is a mistake in the priorities and interpretation of the laws, the judiciary can correct it in its internal dynamics. In addition, the Justice Department can resolve these interpretation differences with regulatory procedures. Attempting to make a law for every interpretation difference is untenable. Again, there are no legal references and laws-making techniques in the proposal of "Those assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special task." In a state of law, it is unthinkable to give Prime Minister such authority and responsibility. Also, C. M. K 250. Crimes in the article are very serious, starting with treason, like State Secrets, Espionage, Constitutional Laws. This arrangement burdens the prime ministers with a heavy responsibility, leading to the turning of all attention to this office in any unsolved, unsolved, unsolved case. In this way, an environment bound by the Prime Minister and guaranteed protection from the judiciary will be established. There's a possibility that this Prime Minister will turn into the Deep State. This is against the principles of the state of law. For some time now, there's been a sneak attack on the government and its institutions. In the face of extraordinary developments in our country and in our recent geography, it is vital that our institutions be in a democratic, respected, and trustworthy position based on the principles of the Law State. The National Intelligence Agency must answer these allegations as soon and clearly as possible. That's the M.I. way. T. It is not to prevent members from going to trial. It is not to interfere with the judicial processes that have been initiated in this matter and to give members of the National Intelligence Agency the opportunity to avoid any allegations that undermine the institution's dignity and credibility. The proposal of the law does not serve that purpose, rather increases conflict between institutions. Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute QA on matter. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0684par1022	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister of Justice. I'm going to read something, and in the indictment against the CK, we said that to the minister. And the minister is going to look at the isolation thing, and we're not saying anything right now, and we're going to see, and we're going to see, and we're going to see... maybe they want to run the process one step at a time. We're actually getting something about a normal political but more civilized political process, a step-by-step. Time will tell, but these are being renewed in every interview. There's an assessment in the indictment of you meeting with the members of the TK Turkish Parliament and considering matters related to Ocalan and the organisation. I'm asking: when, where, what did you discuss with the TKTM handlers?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0683par1024	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0685par1026	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, lately, of course, we've been learning that some of the members of the MIT have been assigned to certain tasks. Have such duties been given in Syria, Libya, Egypt? Second question: The Prime Minister says there is a Kurdish problem in Turkey. He says there isn't one now. Is Turkey the Kurdish problem or not? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0686par1030	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0687par1032	Thank you. Mr. Secretary: Sir, some of the speakers are talking about the danger that will come in the spring. What do you think these dangers are, Mr. Secretary? Do you expect an attack on Turkey, do you have a measure? My second question is, you now agree that the Oslo talks have been held. Whether it's the government or the government, you accept it, and you declare you'll follow through. However, Oslo talks mention the presence of a stranger. Who is this stranger from, what country is he from, and did you hold these meetings under the supervision of another country? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0688par1036	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0689par1038	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister of Justice: you're bringing the Prime Minister's permission procedure for the crimes that have entered the field of special authorities in accordance with the CMC Article 250 against members and those who have been appointed by the Prime Minister in the proposed law. Special authority courts established with the CMK article 250 have judged the perpetrators who committed what crimes? Would you explain this because we observe that some AKP MPs did not perceive the issue and ask: "Can the Prime Minister protect the person responsible for the assassination of the President?" I think it might make more sense if you explain it to me. You're also authorizing the Prime Minister to prosecute the ongoing cases you've brought for members of the MIT...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0690par1042	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0691par1043	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you weren't here, we asked a question while Mr. Bozdağ was here. Mr. Prosecutor says the investigation into Sarıkaya has been launched due to a breach of the confidentiality of his preliminary investigation. Several documents have been published before your investigation file, which you described as Ergenekon (Ergenekon) and before the trial of Oda TV has yet to be filed, many of whom have not yet been prosecuted, their privacy transcripts, their speech reports, even the public's condolences in our Mr. President's Oda TV case, our president's phone, and his home address have been shown to the press. Do you or do you not think that the HSYK has launched an investigation into relevant prosecutors in this way? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1046	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0693par1048	Twenty more seconds, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1049	Nobody talks in 20 seconds, sir, we give them a minute, so it doesn't matter. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0693par1051	That's not the way to do it, is it? How does that happen? It's just our time.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1052	No, sir. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0694par1054	Mr. President, why are you giving our rights to the Minister?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1055	Sir, in 17 seconds, 20 seconds, no one can speak.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0694par1056	I'll explain in 17 seconds.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1057	It's not your turn, Mr. Scholar Light. Don't shout, it's not your turn. We have a friend before you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0695par1059	He was coming to me. There is no such thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1060	Sometimes he can get to the congressman sometimes because we give him a minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0695par1061	Thirty seconds, 30 seconds. How could you do this? Mr. President, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1062	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1063	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Oktay Vural...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0695par1064	And it could be going to the Minister, nothing going to the Congressman.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0692par1065	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1066	You've made a very appropriate, appropriate statement in person, which is extremely appropriate, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0695par1067	The president told me, President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1068	Dear MPs, I begin with Mr. Vural's question. That's where you read a passage about the isolation of the ACK. We asked the Minister, and he seemed to say some sort of look-see. Of course, it's a dialogue between people who aren't interested in this kind of dialogue but the minister.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1069	Have you guys ever had a meeting?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1070	But I'm answering the question that you've directed me: when, where, what, did you discuss with the KCK authorities? The answer is: I've never discussed anything on any ground, on any of the CK authorities. I'll mix up whoever's gonna prove it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1072	Who did you talk to about Ocalan?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1073	...we're doing politics, and I've been on every platform and every platform and I'm going to continue to see representatives of political parties that have come to Parliament with the votes of the people.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1075	No, it's not them, look, it's here. Who did you talk to about Ocalan?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1076	Congressmans, regarding the conditions of the Imralı Prison, the control mechanism of the Council of Europe, the CPT, the Committee for the Protection of Torture...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1077	It's not.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1078	...when Turkey was in the position to follow the following, there were conditions in 2009. He was critical of her being alone, and he was critical of other F-type prisons where there were no existing conditions, and...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1079	Now, I'm going to read the evaluation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1080	Turkey has also sent five new prisoners to the additional prison in İmralı to meet these criticisms, where it has provided conditions to meet the conditions of other F-type prisons.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1081	This isn't that conversation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1082	Beyond that, there has never been a meeting with any institution, any organization, which is our answer, Mr. Vural, and if you have any other claim, you will prove it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0697par1083	Look, look, you've seen each other.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1084	I'm saying I've been seeing politicians. I've talked to the BDP MPs, I'll talk to them today, I'll talk to them tomorrow, I won't be offended, I've never been offended. Dear lawmakers, in Syria - the question of Mr. Fırat (Mr. Firat) - have any duties been given to the MIT Agency? (I have no chance to know this, the MIT is not my institution, it is not the responsibility of all members of the Council of Ministers to know each of their activities separately, it is an institution responsible for the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0698par1086	So you don't know the ACK.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1087	Other than that, Mr. Fırat had a question like whether Turkey has Kurdish problems or not. What difference does it make if I say there isn't? What difference does it make if I say there isn't?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0699par1088	Let's hear your comment.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1089	Turkey has had a problem for thirty years, and there is a problem that is deeper at its root. We can call it "var" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or So we have a problem that Turkey has been through, call it the problem of accountability, call it the terrorism problem, call it the east problem, call it the Kurdish problem, whatever you say, we have a problem to deal with, we don't have a problem to deal with, we don't have a problem to deal with, and in that respect, efforts are being made to solve it, and that's going to be shown after that. Do you expect a threat in the spring?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0700par1091	That's what they say.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1092	Mr. Şandir, based on examples of the past years in which Turkey lived after winter, the state will, of course, take measures, develop measures. He can't refuse to take these precautions. Therefore, I find it difficult to understand that being a regular is being criticized in this way.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0700par1093	I'm not criticizing, that's what they say, do you have any precautions? Do you see such danger?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1094	The law enforcement forces, facing spring, of course, are taking their precautions in the summer, taking every precaution to ensure the safety of our security forces, citizens, lives and possessions.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0700par1095	So the preachers are talking here, and you're hearing it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0696par1096	Thank you, Mr. President, and I'll answer the rest of your questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0701par1097	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival, and then I'll process it in order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose a month after the 3rd amendment of the provision for the amendment to State Intelligence Services 2/343 and National Intelligence Service Act. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose a month after the 3rd amendment of the provision for the amendment to State Intelligence Services 2/343 and National Intelligence Service Act. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to State Intelligence Services and the National Intelligence Agency Act. Instead of going into effect in the date of the release of the Article, I would like to request that it be added three months after its release date. The 3rd Amendment Proposal of 164 rows in question. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Law is in effect on 01,01,2013. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to State Intelligence Services and the National Intelligence Agency Act. We supply and demand that the clause be changed in the following way. These laws are enforced on July 30, 2014. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to read are of the same nature, I'm going to proceed with the motions. If they demand it, I'll make a separate commitment to the motion holders or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to State Intelligence Services and the National Intelligence Agency Act. We demand and demand that the clause be removed from the text. Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0702par1124	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0701par1125	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0703par1126	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0701par1127	Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0704par1130	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've spoken in the papers. We held closed sessions on the Kurdish problem. Now we're talking about the MIT Law. Careful, he's got a Kurdish problem in his focus. There have been hundreds of discussions about Habur in this House. The Imran has been discussed hundreds of times. Oslo has been discussed hundreds of times. We've talked about painful events hundreds of times. Isn't the political community really aware of what you're going through? In this parliament, I look at the political account -- through the Kurdish problem -- over 30 years of suffering, over the loss of more than 40,000 lives, over 300 billion, 400 billion dollars in economic damage, from Kandil So we're going to be elected by the will of the whole nation, and we're going to be here, discussing the letters. Who said what? Who saw what? It's called the National Intelligence Agency or secret organizations. They have levels of secrecy, degrees. I've made it clear here, in the days of the Coalition Government, there were talks in 99; I saw them with my own eyes. So now, I've seen it with my own eyes as a lawyer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0705par1133	Mr. Vural, come in!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0706par1134	I will, I will! Your soul mate. Don't you think you're being defended? I see you're hugging. You've walked these roads together!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0704par1135	It happened in 99, it happened in 2002, and it's happening today. Now, look, someone might say, "I didn't meet as a government, as a government, as a government. " Someone might say, "My officer did, I didn't.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0706par1137	Ya... You drank the same water together in Oslo, in Habur.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0707par1138	We'll keep drinking the same water!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0704par1139	Now I'm asking you, are governments a scarecrow? Is the government a scarecrow, for God's sake? Doesn't the General Staff depend on governments?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0706par1140	Go on, go on!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0704par1141	Isn't national intelligence based on governments?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0708par1142	We'll continue.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0706par1143	That's what we're saying! Keep moving! Don't deny it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0704par1144	Isn't it all up to the government, the officers who go there, the officers who talk to them, the intelligence? I mean, your officers are doing something, they're negotiating, none of you are aware of the world, you're a government, are you? Now, what I'm asking is, are you so curious about the answers to some things? Let's form a delegation of four parties, two, three, one. Come, shall we go with the Parliamentary Commission for Human Rights, or shall we go directly to Imralı? Ask all the questions in your head, ask, take your direct answer. Why do you write letters to each other all the time? Is the Minister a middleman or a postman, Minister? Is the minister a mailman, for God's sake? Let's all speak the truth. If you have a question, come, let's go, let's talk in Imran. Come, let's go to Oslo. Let's go to Oslo, who's there and who's not there. Come, let's go to Erbil. Let's go to the parliament in Erbil, where we can meet. If you have the heart, if you have the courage, if you want peace in this land, let us also go to Kandil. Do you have 12 brave congressmen? Are there three MPs from each party? Come, let's go for peace, let's go for peace, let's go for Turkey's future, let's go for our youth's future, let's go for the soldiers, let's go for the police, let's go for our children, let's go for Turkey, let's go for 74 million. Do you have 12 brave people, Congressman? Is such a settlement commission, such a will, such courage? That's enough! Enough, enough, enough! No Habur, no Kandil, Oslo, no Imran! So what does this House do? What does it do? Guys, is this a coffee shop? Have fear of God. Who has the right? Who has the right to fight so many boatmen in this serious problem? Well, let's think about it on a conscience, human. Yes, spring is coming, I'm scared. Every spring, I'm afraid. When the snow melts in the mountains, the soldier dies, the young die, and the mother weeps. Doesn't it make your conscience sad? Aren't you scared? I'm scared. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Funerals are coming, guys. I'm looking for a solution. That's politics, the rest is stories. This is no time to beat water in the air. Come, let's put our hands on the stone. I'm inviting you as a four-party group. I'm inviting you, there's no need to discuss this more. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0709par1150	Mr. Kaplan, thank you, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1151	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0709par1152	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1153	Sir, the Hajji has expressed his nonsense that he held talks during the reign of the Coalition in '99.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0711par1154	It's not nonsense. Oktay, Hasip Kaplan doesn't speak nonsense.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1155	I'm going to explain this now.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0711par1156	I'll tell you straight up, if you make me talk, I'll spill it all over here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1157	Spill as much as you want. What ministers did you meet with?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0711par1158	Don't deny it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1159	Go see him. What ministers have you been with? What ministers did you drink from the same water, what did you discuss? Come out, explain with courage.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0711par1160	I will. I'll tell you all about it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1161	Get out, explain. Explain.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0712par1162	Mr. Vural, please. Mr. Vural, in two minutes, calmer, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1166	Now, look, I clearly declare here that if anyone claims that there was a political commission to negotiate and dialogue with the Imralı during the Coalition administration, then it is an honor and honor issue to announce that assignment here; one.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0713par1167	Okay, I'll come out and say it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0710par1168	Look, yes, here he is, the villain of the Imran and the officials of the state to finish the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the person you put in prison today with the Atilla Uður Yıldırım interrogation process, his book on this interrogation was published. Look, this is the road map that Ocalan sent you. He says, despite all my efforts to assess my administrative interrogation as a basis for dialogue and negotiation, someone has always broken it. All my suggestions went unanswered. Obviously, until the end, the completion of the movement was planned. There were structures that viewed negotiations and dialogue as their end. There is a state structure that today raises political goals, protocols, Oslo talks. (Applause from MHP rows, AK PARTY rows) Here it is.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0714par1169	Mr. Vural, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0714par1172	Places, please. Places, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1173	But, Mr. President, if there's a Orator...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0714par1174	Well, don't go past a minute then. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1178	Mr. Oktay, if you want, I'll tell you. Right now, Sabri Ok is the number one defendant in the TK main case. Sabri Ok met on February 15, 99, when Abdullah Ocalan was brought in as a result of the plot against Imran. It's your time in power.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0716par1179	Were we on February 15th? We weren't even in the council.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1180	Your era of power, February 15, 99.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0717par1182	February 15th, we weren't there.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1183	Wait a minute... Two: Three delegations from Ankara took part in the interrogations in Imralı. The General Staff, the gendarmes, the police, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the MIT...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0718par1185	What does it have to do with mp?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1186	And I'm telling you this clearly; there's a list of the committee that's changed three times. That's another thing if you're sleeping standing up as a government if you don't know it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0719par1187	We don't exist in February.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1188	You can sleep standing up, everyone has the right to sleep. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, I'm not saying you did bad; the guns stopped at 99, until 2004, the guns stopped...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0719par1192	We don't exist in February.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0720par1193	The elections were held on April 18th.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0715par1194	Hursit Tolon was on duty at that time. Hursit Tolon's in there, so...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0721par1195	Sir, on February 15th, MHP wasn't even in Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0722par1196	MHP isn't in Congress.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0721par1197	Explain where you and the AKP have meetings and go out. What ministers did you meet with?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0723par1198	During the same period, five years were carried out during the AK PARTY administrations.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0721par1199	Which ministers did he meet with, CK? Explain!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0723par1200	Meeting's not a bad thing, guys.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0721par1201	Explain what meetings were held with the ACK. Let the people see, let the people know! Explain yourself!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0723par1202	So let's discuss the solution.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0724par1203	Mr. Kaplan, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0721par1204	Explain to me, which ministers did the TK have a meeting with?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0724par1205	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0725par1206	There was no TK.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0721par1207	He held a meeting with the PKK, explain.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0725par1208	The KCK is only two years old!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0726par1209	Mr. Kaplan, thank you, sir, thank you. Now, on the motion...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0725par1211	The government's doing it, the government's doing it...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0726par1212	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0727par1213	So we weren't here on February 15th.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0728par1214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0727par1215	Let him take them back.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0729par1216	Mr. President, there is one thing Mr. Kaplan has failed: there have been talks in 1999. After the talks, the armed militants of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) were outside the country's borders.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0730par1217	He got out for five years.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0729par1218	After these talks, the death penalty has been lifted.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0730par1219	Is that bad? It's not like you've been dead for five years.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0729par1220	These talks were held in Imran, and I'm making them clear and clear.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0731par1222	It's all taken care of, all right, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0732par1223	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0729par1224	And they weren't loyal to these talks, 500 guerrillas were trapped, and after that, talks were stopped after the crisis of confidence between the PKK and the government of that period.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0733par1225	Explain your meetings with the AKP.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0729par1226	We're making it very clear that we've been talking to you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0734par1227	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. Thank you, okay, he's in control.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0733par1228	Explain your meetings with the AKP.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0735par1229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0734par1230	Mr. Longhorn, you'll be held back from where you are. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0735par1232	Sir, not from where we're standing, but from there...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0734par1233	No, we're doing this now, look, it's not over yet. Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0735par1235	Mr. President, can you open from here?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0734par1236	Open up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0735par1238	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, 1) In the April 1999 elections, the National Movement Party entered Parliament and the establishment of the government took about a month and a half. Therefore, the National Movement Party is not in the government, it is not in Parliament, it is not in Parliament, it is not in the Parliament, in talks in February or at a certain time after. 2) When the death penalty is lifted, there are MPs in the parliament who voted that the death penalty be lifted under the name of the AKP's Party (AKP) and that the death penalty be lifted at the time of AKP's departure. There is a group decision. 126 MPs of the National Movement Party voted no. It's all in the House records. There's no need to shout. If anyone has a mind, a mind, a mind, who knows how to read, let the House open their records, and let them see whose vote is yes. Let them see who voted for the death penalty. No one has ever negotiated with the National Movement Party. The names of those who have spoken can also be explained. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0736par1243	Thank you, Mr. Longneck. All right, he's on the books, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0737par1245	Mr. President, let me make a correction...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0736par1246	Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0737par1247	The point Mr. Longırmak said was that on February 15th, the elections were held on April 17th and 18th. These are the interviews I said, the summer of 1999...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0738par1248	They're interrogations.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0737par1249	...and until the guerrilla groups on September 1st, the peace groups came and continued.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0739par1250	Mr. Kaplan, is he a member of the organization then, and he's not a congressman, how does he know that?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0737par1251	Gee, I was a lawyer.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0740par1252	One second, sir, one second... Yeah...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1254	Mr. President, I'd like to go down in history... public opinion should know what's going on, our people should know...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0740par1255	In addition to what you just said?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1256	No, you've left me incomplete, I'm not...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0742par1257	Mr. President, let's ask the MIT representatives to tell the truth!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0740par1258	Here you go, Mr. Sakek, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1260	Mr. President, thank you very much. Really, we're going through a historic phase. What day it was, public opinion, our people should know about it. If there are no talks in 1999, an armed group will be able to...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0743par1262	We caught him, we caught him... caught him in the palm of his hand.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0744par1263	From the Iraqi border...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1264	...or an armed group came from the Iraqi border, a second group from Europe, came through the agreements, but those who made the agreements at that time betrayed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0745par1265	They came out of fear, scared.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1266	They gave them severe punishments, and that confidence was undermined, and 500 guerrillas were ambushed and killed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0746par1267	Surrender. It's been said, surrender, there's no other way. We will not surrender to terrorism, the PKK will surrender. It has been said. We didn't have a state ceremony like Habur.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0747par1268	Not at all. Not at all. Not at all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1269	They came on their own. They came in with a gun in their hands.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0746par1270	They'll surrender! They're gonna come running, they're gonna turn themselves in! They will surrender to Turkey, there is no other way! That's it! They'll come!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0748par1272	He's on the books, Mr. Vural. Thank you. Okay, thanks.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0741par1273	Mr. President, there's no need to lecture the porter. They came up with deals, came up with a gun. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0746par1274	No Oslo, no protocol, no Habur! That's how it goes... all the way! All the way! That's how we got him, we got him by the log!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0748par1275	Sir, now, the MPs...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0749par1276	The Brigadier General of the First Peace Group welcomes the guerrillas.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0750par1277	Mr. President, that's enough. There is no such procedure, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0749par1278	I know the names of the lawyers who served at the time, and I know the people who made those calls. Five lawyers... from the Imralı received the original letter, the first peace groups came, those peace groups were betrayed, arrested, punished. Unfortunately, the AK PARTY made a mistake during the Habur process. They were punished for the same mistake during the Habur process. There's been an insecurity. We're gonna talk about the truth.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0751par1279	Mr. Kaplan, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0752par1280	There's no way to terror!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0753par1281	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0751par1282	Now, Mr. Longhorn, I beg you very much, we can't keep this up until morning.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0753par1283	There's no need for friends to explain.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0751par1284	Look, I've promised you twice, over there. I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0753par1285	They have government records. If the AKP people have anything to say against the MPP, let them come out, say it, explain the reports. There's no need for that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0751par1286	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, Aydın MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we're almost past midnight, we've reached the morning. Dear friends, in our talks so far, there is something the ruling party MPs, AKP lawmakers, have been saying all the time from here. Now, when we speak of our hesitations about this law, when we say that this law gives the Prime Minister unlimited authority, and we point to the dangers that this unlimited authority can take an uncontrollable form, you almost say in unbridledness: don't you trust the Prime Minister? So you're making a law change, you're bringing a law, and the only guarantee is your Prime Minister's ulterior qualities, his ulterior qualities, the prime minister's ulterior qualities, his ulterior qualities. Dear friends, look, I'll tell you this: let's go back and remember something. Don't you trust the Prime Minister who said we were meeting with a terrorist organization? Didn't he say that they were bastards and scoundrels? He did.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0755par1299	Don't you get it yet?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1300	Those who meet with the terrorist organization, they're bastards. Didn't they say that? He did.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0756par1301	You're repeating things that aren't there. It's been ten hours!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1302	I repeat, I'm not... did he say he didn't? He did. Then...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0757par1303	He didn't say don't lie!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1304	Then did he have to swallow it or not? That's one.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0758par1305	You're saying the same thing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0757par1306	He didn't.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1307	On the record... Number two: don't you trust? The Prime Minister you're asking us to trust, the Prime Minister you've been waiting for...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0759par1309	Don't trust me!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0760par1310	We couldn't care less!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1311	... for the commanders, for the prosecutors, for the members of the former MIT, when they're being investigated and arrested, while being investigated by special prosecutors and arrested in court. Isn't it the Prime Minister who brought us this proposal of law when the investigations against Hakan Fidan, due to the Oslo process today? (Applause from the CHP rows) (Don't you trust the Prime Minister?) Isn't he the Prime Minister who said, "The National Movement Party Group is here, and one MPs are in there, and Engin Alan has paid the price for not standing up in front of me as Lieutenant General? Isn't he the Prime Minister who arrested him from Ergenekon?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0760par1312	Don't lie!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1313	Now, you're going to get up... I can stretch it, I can stretch it, I can stretch it...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0761par1314	Read the indictments, read the indictments.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1315	Now, you're getting up, and you want us to trust the Prime Minister who made Turkey a paradise of illegal listening, making Turkey a country where no one has legal security left, and making it an insane country where university youths who object to the Prime Minister are tried as members of a terrorist organization. And you know what you want us to trust for?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0762par1316	People are counting on us.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1317	You're asking us to trust him when we're discussing the law proposal he wants to take charge of the entire criminal organization. Dear friends, there's no need to prolong it, look, there's no need to prolong it, it's a reason why we can't trust him, even if a prime minister wants that power for himself, just after recent investigations. I thank you, all of you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1321	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0764par1322	What are you talking about? What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1323	I didn't mention a place where I lived. Don't be rude!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1324	Congressmans, we have two motions of the same nature...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0754par1326	You're not going to do things you can't handle.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1328	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0765par1329	Mr. President, take five.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0766par1330	You want to watch a fight, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1331	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0765par1332	Mr. President, do you want to watch the fight? Take five, my dear, our deputies are already nervous.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1333	Why are you yelling? Here, you manage it yourself! Why are you yelling, brother? Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0765par1335	Take five.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1336	Let's give it to him, okay, but talk more politely without yelling.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0765par1337	Are you an audience?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit07spe0763par1338	You're not under my command, and I'm not under yours. Speak softly, speak softly, and I'll answer you accordingly. [[AK PARTY and CHP MPs walking on it, noise.]] Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0763par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 67th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 164. The commission is here. The government is here. We stayed in the vote of the two motions, which were jointly implemented on the third article of the proposal. Now I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. We supply and demand that the clause be changed in the following way. Aylin Nazlıaka (Ankara) and his friends These laws are enforced on July 30, 2014. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0767par0013	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0763par0014	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0768par0015	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0763par0016	Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP... Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0769par0019	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies are making exceptions to the rule, the rules are making exceptions. How did we get to September 12th? The right-wing youths and the left-wing youths, who called themselves the archnomeans, and the young ones who called themselves the domestics, sought salvation in different prescriptions. Our young people hurt each other, the coupgers didn't just stand by, they helped create the impact environment, and now it's more noticeable. The Constitution, which the coupists have approved by 92 per cent, cannot prevent them from being tried today. Now a new game is being played. The first scene was successfully performed in Davos. The lead actor of the one minor was very successful. The journalist who was bored with the session was warned by his friends; where are you going, the real show will begin soon. In the blue Marmara, the MPs were taken off the ship, and the pure and clean children of the land were cast into the fire, and were slain by ruthless Israeli soldiers. You create your enemy and appear before him as a so-called hero. On April 27th, the current Chief of Staff gives e-mails, playing the role of hero to the ship's owner, the Prime Minister. They compromise behind closed doors in Dolmabahçe. The ACK is being put into it by MIT people, and the authorities who have been heroized by its actions are coming out. When is this game going to end? Remember, you can whistle before the curtain comes down. The applause of his followers in the evening was said to him, "What the hell are you, brother?" But this false situation did not save the dictators, Gaddafi, Saddam, and Mubarak. He can't save today's dictators, those who look up to the sultan. Who will account for the loss of the girl in the day, the seven martyrs who returned from the market to Reshadiye, and those who were not exposed? Are there representatives of the Prime Minister of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Oslo, the governor, the chief of police, whom you are not pleased with? Won't that affect the authority of my country's governors, police chiefs, the thrill of the mission to uphold law enforcement? Mr. President, members of lawmakers, a leaky pool doesn't hold water from the outside. In order not to leak water, you need to be plastered from the inside, injected with concrete. This garden won't hold a patch. No matter how many additional items you add, it does not serve a specific purpose. Do not wrong the honorable members of the MIT. Do not leave them in need of protection. Besides, those who bow at the front can't look out for those who are on the front line. We observe that there has been an unbearable pain, suffering, and conscientious disorder for our AKP-members, but not in particular from the AKP, and their body language is giving themselves away. Some scratch their necks, some put their hands on their temples, some on their chins. If they can't save themselves, no one can. I invite you to behave with common sense. I'm showing you a yellow card by the power vested in by my Isparta people, and if you don't turn around wrong, our great nation and history will show you a red card. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0770par0031	People showed you red cards.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0771par0032	Mr. Proposal, thank you. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The 3rd Amendment Proposal of 164 rows in question. We propose that the clause be changed in the following way. The Law is in effect on 01,01,2013. Scholar Light (Kütahya) and friends Do you agree, Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0772par0040	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0771par0041	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0773par0042	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0771par0043	You don't agree. Mr. Scholar Illum, Kütahya MP... [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all at this hour of the morning. First, I'd like to read to you the 26th article in the existing MIT Law 2937. We know it's a prisoner's permit. We know it. You don't know it, you haven't read it. In carrying out the duties of members of the MIT, it is up to the Prime Minister's permission to prosecute them for crimes alleged during the nature of the mission or the execution of the mission. I'm asking you now: is Mr. Hakan Fidan a member of the MIT at that time, or is he not? No, it's the Deputy Secretary of the Prime Minister. Here's what you've added to this law proposal, in addition to this clause, of members of the MIT or those assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special mission. In that meeting, I'm once again announcing to my friend who signed an offer of the law to ban the non-MIT member Hakan Fidan. What did he sign from here? What's more, or what's going on... or the Prime Minister's orders to investigate the crimes committed in the field of the criminal courts, which were founded under the first statement of Article 5271 of the Law. Now I count to you the crimes of Article 250: (a) The charge of laundering the value of drug and stimulant drugs and trafficking in the organization's activities, B) Algebra and threats have been carried out in the scope of the activities of an organization founded to seek unfair economic gain. It says that these are being monitored by the criminal court. Here, valued lawmakers, with this proposal of law that you do not want to understand, but at that time a non-MIT member -- Mr. Secretary still couldn't answer -- will be subject to the Prime Minister's permission of the investigation, which we have been unable to answer because of what crime he committed. I don't know if you have any consciences, because since any commissioner has ever said no, one of these MPs hasn't said anything, anything that's true. Whether you like it or not, you're gonna need this one someday. If you believe in this law, you'll need it one day or another. I'm asking you now: 2011, the ninth month, the eleventh month, 2011, the eleventh month, and 2012, in the first month, I gave four written question motions to Mr. Prime Minister about this issue. There's no answer to the four-question motions until when? On 3 February 2012, Deputy Prime Minister Bashir Atalay Bey answers the four of them on behalf of the Prime Minister. Two different answers on the same date. It's addressed to the motions. The last paragraph was printed in one of the answers, forgotten in the other. The last paragraph says that Bashir Atalay Bey: "But all these works are independent of judicial processes, and there is no basis for interference in judicial authorities and judicial processes in accordance with Article 138 of the Constitution concerning the independence of the courts." The second answer on the same day does not exist. A gentleman -- so I believe -- a bureaucrat warns our Prime Minister in the afternoon, says: "Mr. Vice Prime Minister, something like this has come to us -- because there are MITEST people -- let's get this paragraph out, because the law we're going to make is the opposite." The Deputy Prime Minister who responded on behalf of the Prime Minister is not here today. It says here that these cannot be an interference in the judiciary, but this law is an intervention in the judiciary. In the third article of Article 138 of the Constitution, the Legislative Assembly on a case in question.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0775par0057	They've been answered...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0058	My dear brother, you come here and talk, what do you mean, pass? You're gonna teach me?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0776par0060	Please don't interfere, Hatibe, over.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0775par0061	The president answered them.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0062	Sir, you can come and talk here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0775par0063	It's been answered.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0064	None of your business! None of your business! None of your business!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0777par0065	Dear Light, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0066	Mr. President, just one more minute...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0777par0067	All right, make up your mind, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0068	My dear brother, as you speak here, you will come here and defend the militia.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0777par0069	Let's address the House, the House.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0774par0070	We say here that you have committed an act contrary to the Constitution. Have a nice seat, don't make promises. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, remember this, I'll pass this out to everyone. I remind you again that your function is a violation of the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0777par0073	Dear Light, thank you. Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 3rd Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. Instead of going into effect in the date of the release of the Article, I would like to request that it be added three months after its release date. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Does the Commission agree?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0778par0080	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0777par0081	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0779par0082	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0780par0083	Spiriter Demirel will speak.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0777par0084	Mr. Rusar Demirel, Eskişehir MP... Mr. Ironel, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0781par0087	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, good morning. You know, I'm going to talk about the law on the agenda, but it's going to be a name of the law, I think it's called the law of the bearer card. Before I go into the law, there's been some political distortions here, so I'll make a statement about them, so that all of these parliamentarians under the House have some knowledge of the political history of the country. The head of the National Movement Party's Isparta Province is not under arrest. The National Movement Party is not in Parliament on February 15, 1999. I'll tell you one more thing in advance so you don't make a mistake, when the National Movement Party wasn't in this Parliament in April 2007, when you couldn't choose the President. After making these assessments... you often say something... of national will, we came with the vote. Why is it that when you five appointed officers are called to testify, you rush to pass a law on the Constitution, and we stand next to our elected mayor of national will? Your Honor, why are you laughing? It's not funny, you should be sorry.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0782par0092	I'm laughing because there's a disturbance here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0781par0093	You need to feel sorry for this, and what you call this national will, there are over 40 million voters in Turkey, 550 seats here, with an average of 80 thousand votes, if you respect so many national wills, you haven't said a word about Mr. Engin Alan until today, aren't you ashamed of it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0783par0095	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0781par0096	Gentlemen, gentlemen, I'm telling you, we, the National Movement Party, have come from a very difficult struggle, and I don't give a damn if you talk to me like this is a drill. I respect you, try to listen to me. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] That's your word for civilization, facing history. If you're facing history, may I remind you of something, you who clapped your hands when entering the cosmic room of the General Staff, the intestines are being cleaned. Aren't you ashamed to leave the Prime Minister under suspicion when five of MIT's officers are called to testify? Now the whole nation thinks that the big radish in the saddle is the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0784par0100	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker's testimony is inappropriate, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0781par0101	Sir, let me remind you of something else.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0785par0103	Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0781par0104	If I'm going to learn to speak from you, I'll tell you. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Mr. President, would you care to step in?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0785par0107	Mr. Ironel, with a cleaner language, please. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0786par0109	Mr. President, what dirty language is he using? Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0785par0110	He says, "Don't be shy."
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0787par0111	Sir, you're the one who cleans my tongue... If I use your language...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0785par0112	Don't interfere, friends. You too, in peace, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0787par0113	... It won't be very clean, Mr. President. Mr. President, you have a bit of a bad record for language cleaning. I don't want my tongue to be any worse than yours. You don't have a very good record. [[From the AK PARTY lines, it's rude.]] Congressmans, I invite you to rest and remind you of one more thing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0788par0117	Find another microphone! Don't push it!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0789par0118	Friends, please let's hear it, Hathibi, please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0790par0119	How unbearable you are!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0791par0120	A speaker, a political party member, used the word of a preacher here: "We fought the sledgehammer." That's right, you fought the sledgehammer, congratulations. You are Mr. Prime Minister's driver, chief of staff, and a part of zevat found in that vehicle, who, by chance, fought a sledgehammer in that neighborhood and nearly died. That's right, you fought the sledgehammer, congratulations.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0789par0122	Friends, please let's hear it, please let's hear it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Please...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0791par0123	Congressmans, the court does not own the woman, nor did Gaddafi, who received the human rights award, become a murderer. I'll tell you something else.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0792par0125	Work, come on!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0791par0126	These words of yours are drills, gentlemen, we are not conjunctural parties like you, praise be to the 43rd year.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0792par0128	We're the party that came to power in the 1st year of its establishment, ma'am.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0791par0129	You people talk about democracy all the time. Democracy requires a democratic mind, a conscientious representative. I call you to the conscience of democracy. Democracy is not about gum in the mouth. Democracy is a stance. Democracy is about allowing too much noise, not one voice. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I don't know who this trump card bill is for, but we all know who it's not for. For example, we're all sure it's not for lawmakers to wait for 2013. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0793par0134	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that a month after the 3rd amendment of the amendment to State Intelligence Services No. 2/343 and National Intelligence Service Law shall be changed in the form of the declaration of the 3rd Amendment. Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0794par0141	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0793par0142	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0795par0143	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0796par0144	Motive...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0793par0145	I'm reading the reason: The date of execution is intended to be a further date. Congressmans, I submit to your votes the motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Now, I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4-The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Congressmans, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ilhan Cihaner, Denizli MP... Mr. Cihaner, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0156	Thank you. I salute everyone. Of course, there's a lot to say, considering the possibility that it won't last for him in the first place, I'll say the last thing. We have a great opportunity ahead of us. We're having a state crisis. The real causes of the crisis were never really mentioned. One of the real reasons for the crisis is the controversy about how the Kurdish problem will be resolved, another is the alleged covert action involving the alleged crime, and another is the conflict between the Fethullah Gulen community, which is alleged to have taken part in the judiciary and police. For some reason, at this point, all the media is fighting over it, while the whole community is fighting over it, it doesn't even have the courage to say it here. But we have a great opportunity ahead of us. Indeed, we can bring this crisis to a peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem, both to the clarity of the claims of this staffing on the police and the judiciary, and to the release of this ghost over the entire community, and to the release of all dark events that have occurred since September 6th, 7th. But it turns out Congress has already become a special authority, because before the matter was discussed, I saw today's edition of the Star newspaper online. The title eight columns have come back from parliament, which means that the decision has already been made, and our friends who have come up here have actually mentioned the bill, whereas we are now number 6278. We're talking about the law. So it's been decided, and our coven has become special authority, special assignment, and the talks here are really empty. So, I'm saying this more in terms of turning this into history and this opportunity that I said at the beginning, about the days to come. Now, everyone here has spoken, everyone has spoken, but the most important actors have not spoken. Who are they? Prosecutors conducting the investigation in İstanbul. On February 15th, these prosecutors spoke to Mehmet Ali Birand. Without revealing their identity, I'm going to read you a few striking things from there: I'm surprised at media. We don't understand why they attack so much. We know what MIT is doing. We are aware that Hakan Fidan is one of the most trusted by the Prime Minister. Aren't you asking yourself? ▪ Why do they disturb their comforts? Why don't you say, "Why do they bring up a person the Prime Minister trusts the most?" Are we that naive? So we have so much evidence that we can't ignore it. Again, the state ignores them, the PKK considers them to be their own, so agents can buzz around, appear among those who commit the most crimes, javelin across the border, participate in events that mean crime for us, because they are unregistered. When the cop who caught the criminal catches them, he's gonna let them go? Are we to be blind when their crimes come to us? Then they add: if you were an MIT agent, if you took a risk and infiltrated the agency, then you shouldn't have been caught. We didn't decipher you. We didn't pick you up while you were working there. You were caught throwing Molotov cocktails. I draw your attention, the prosecutors say so. I held onto you because you got caught throwing Molotov cocktails. Then you should have been careful. The crime list from the police department to the D.A.'s office is a big one. After seeing this list, you can't answer when they ask what to do now. The most interesting example is that Ocalan (Ecalan) sent a letter containing a series of scenarios, particularly the Silvan raid, to the PKK through the MIT. Another is the agreement between Ocalan and Hakan Fidan between the MIT delegation. Look, that's what the prosecutors are saying. Now, if this is true...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0798par0167	Are the prosecutors doing this right? Say those things.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0168	They're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0798par0169	Is that what he's saying in a confidential file?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0170	The Minister of Justice is here, so let him do what he has to do. I agree.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0798par0171	When it doesn't work out for you...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0172	No, no... it's working for us, I agree, I agree with what you say. I'll ask the Minister of Justice if you'll do the same. I agree. But there's something more important here, guys, really important. Because this is something that will change everyone's design from both the Kurdish perspective and the Turkish perspective, especially those who are nationalizing the Kurdish problem. So in fact, the PKK may not do what it does, and it is much more striking than the Star newspaper. Huseyin says that Mossad may have given the prosecutor the documents. Foreign services place documents in front of the prosecutor so that the prosecutor may have to press the button. Why have they not been spoken of, and not heard, who have said the same things in the form of screaming for years? So if we need total cleansing, the House will do it. We'll solve the Kurdish problem. We will also solve these doubts above the judgment and above the MIT. Please, look at what you've done to the House! You're turning down the House. You've made the coven almost legal. Now, there's another one here who can't speak, who can't speak, who's our Prime Minister. Yasin Doğan is in the New Dawn newspaper. Maybe you'll recognize Yasin Doğan. Yasin Doğan is always known as a very close person to the Prime Minister and is known as the Prime Minister's unofficial voice. Now, Yasin Dogan wrote on the same day exactly as he wrote about the conflict between the congregation and the government: this is not just a union of the heart. It is a goal and goal union that has been met by the Great Turkey ideal. The struggle between these structures in two different lanes of power and power... Now, look, you just talked about coming to power, and you keep saying that. Did our citizens vote for you, or did they vote for the congregation? What are two separate lanes? Are you in power; how much do you share with whom? Well, there's a lot to be said for that, but I'll try to make it very brief and very quick about the technical dimension of the law. Now you're saying it's not a personal law. Give me one more example. Give me one more example of the Prime Minister's special assignment, other than Hakan Fidan. You say the law is clear; it's a lie. Because there's nothing in this clause about where or what the public prosecutor would resort to. You refer to the Constitution. Now, there are three kinds of cases in the administrative court: a full trial, a mistrial. These open with tuition. Now, there are legal experts here.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0799par0181	You don't know administrative judgment!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0182	No, no... no, no, look...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0799par0183	You're a criminal prosecutor!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0184	I know very well, I'll teach you!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0799par0185	How do you know?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0186	Can you tell me where he's applying to? Mr. Special, please, after I land, come, tell me, and I'll be enlightened. If the Prime Minister doesn't allow it, what legal way will the republic's attorney take? Tell me that. And this makes no sense, my friends: how, how, who will apply to something that's already classified? Who's gonna be the victim? It's all gonna be hush-hush anyway. One person, the prosecutor, will give permission to investigate in a secret investigation, it will be confidential, and the Prime Minister will refuse, and the victims will not know. This is going to happen between the D.A. and the Prime Minister. Hypothetically, if a citizen loses a relative with a Molotov cocktail, he won't even know about it so he can apply. I mean, what's there to hide from? I'll give you a prediction: you can't take the political risk of this, and neither can the Prime Minister. You'll probably be able to solve this problem, the arrest warrants on members of the MIT. There's another account under here. There's another dark event that we don't know about that will change everything in Turkey. We don't know what you're hiding. We don't know if you're hiding the nation, if you're hiding Silvan, if you're hiding Hrant Dink, but this will come out.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0800par0190	There's a paper signed wet!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0191	I want to give Bekir Bozdağ a very short answer. Yesterday, Bekir Bozdağ described our president as political immorality on a television channel. Political immorality is a 10% election threshold. (H.P.) Political immorality, recordings...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0801par0192	Good morning!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0193	Good morning! Please... Look, I didn't do it, he did it. He's got a syndrome. You guys dig through history all the time. You're trying to cover up today's humiliations with events torn from the context of the past. You're bringing in the Supreme Court. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't dig in the past. Please, come today. Political immorality is an election dam, secret records.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0802par0196	Just give me one more minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0797par0197	Political immorality...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0803par0198	Mr. Cihaner, your time is up, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0804par0199	Just give me one more minute.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0803par0200	Excuse me.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0804par0201	You gave it to BDP.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0803par0202	No. It wasn't me, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Mr. Cihaner, thank you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Secık is the second speaker. Here you go, Mr. Sakek. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0805par0208	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again this late at night. Actually, we talk and argue all the time. Who spoke and who didn't? I'll tell you who's talking. It's 1993, we're in Parliament. The late Ozal called us. We went to Çankaya Mansion with a group of MPs. We sat down, we had long conversations - how can we stop this blood, this violence? We all have our responsibilities. I've come to a certain age group. The presidency is the highest position I can come to in this country, and I'm here, but I want to do something to my country. Your mission is appropriate, that's why you're here. How can we all turn this process into peace? We had long conversations for him. At the time, the PKK ruled unilateral inaction and set a deadline, which was about to expire. He suggested to us: "You must go, you must go to Damascus, but take our friends from ANAP, and from DYP. This problem is a common problem for all of us. Go with them, and tell that naughty boy, Mr. Ocalan. Tell him to come, to do politics here, to be in Parliament. What are they doing in the mountain? We saw it as collateral, and we had such a responsibility. A group of deputies went to Damascus. We went, we sat down. Iraqi President Talabani was there. We went together. The ceasefire has begun. There was a press conference, but we received news of the death of the late Ozal. Ocalan said, "This is a difficult job, Özal was killed. " And that period did not begin until 99. It also began during the late Erbakan era, when the soldiers threatened him, and he backed down. But after the arrival of Ocalan, in 1999, there were talks with Ocalan, and with Imran. Who did the interviews, who did the interviews? We don't have a list of such things, but at the time, they met with Ocalan, and he was given this assurance: "You will not be helped. You will draw armed forces out of the borders of the country." They said, "You will draw them out of the borders of the country." By the way, two groups came in. One of them was armed. They came from the Iraq area. In fact, a high-ranking commander met them at the border, welcome to your country, we are entering a new process, welcome to it. He said, "Welcome." And they applied to them the universal laws of hospitality. A group of friends from Europe also arrived, but both groups were arrested. And the militants who were left in the region were set up on their way to Iran or the border of Iraq, where nearly 500 guerrillas were ambushed, and they were killed, including my nephew. And it turned out that they weren't sincere in the process, so he was suspended again. And the last time we were here, the process they called the Oslo process, the talks at the Imralı, and the talks at the Kandil. Now, in fact, why did you do it? Why don't we...? I wish we'd all done this together. So if we're going to stop the blood, the way it works is through negotiations and negotiations. But there is a serious trust issue between the Kurds and the system. The year 1925, in the Sheikh Sait Rebellion of that time, the government of that time, sheikh Sait, they are sending word to Master Sait, saying: "Come, we will sit down, we will speak, we will make democratic laws, we will consider your demands and you will be set free. Sheikh Sait sees this as a guarantee, he comes back, but unfortunately, Sheikh Sait and his friends are being executed. Again, in 1937 they invite Seyit Reza (Seyit Reza) to Erzincan for the same reason. They ambush him on the way to Erzincan and take Seyit Reza. We've all seen the cruel policies of Seyit Reza, and the Prime Minister says he's sorry for what happened that day. The year 2011, the year 2012 and the talks in Oslo, the talks in Imran. Yes, it's true, there's a statement from the PKK today, Karayilan says that we don't have an organization called ACK in Turkey. They're not afraid of anyone, and if they're organized, they say it with courage. These arrested people are Kurdish figures who are political on democratic ground, they have nothing to do with us, so there is no relationship with illegality, so the negotiations are not sincere... Today, your Group Vice President has made a statement, saying: "Of course the MIT will leak, of course the MIT will do so. " How can we resolve the problem peacefully, not in order to infiltrate the PKK and do illegal things in it? If you're sincere about this, we need to do what I just said. So those who feed on this area, those who have no policy, those who have nothing to promise society, Turkey, if you really want to stop this blood... we have to stop this violence at once, we have a responsibility to our children, against our country, against our people. We live in a troubled geography. We have problems on our four sides, and the main source of these problems is the Kurdish problem. So we have to name it so clear and unafraid. If we can solve this problem, I assure you, we can become a model country. Just as America has managed to become the country of all Americans, we desire Turkey of all peoples in Turkey. We don't have a project "B" in our head, which is Project A. We have united our destiny with you. Turkey is our homeland. We want to live in equal conditions in Turkey. Isn't that our right? I mean, why are you reacting from here? No, we've slaughtered, we've brought! You've slaughtered our ancestors, have you solved the problem? You did, did you? Let me tell you something: even if you destroy the PKK from seven to seventy, the Kurds won't submit to your policies, and the Kurds say: "The landlord and the thief now know each other. Let's not push a people with such a sense of brotherhood against us. Let's show these people the democratic floor address. In spite of all the improbability, despite all the lawlessness, if this people put their choice in favor of parliamentary democracy, it's a great chance for Turkey, but it seems that democratic ground and parliamentary democracy are very common to Kurds. The roads of the mountain to the Kurds... I mean, what's the storm in Habur? The Kurdish children's coffins and funerals had not arrived from Habur, they entered safely from Habur, and I was there with our friends, as a whole, the people of the region were standing: there was no victory cry, there was no victory cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry, there was no peace cry. We should all hear these oppressed people scream. So the Kurds have won a victory. After 50,000 deaths, what's the victory? There's no victory here. There's a right, a law and a demand for justice here. So the Kurds need to respect their feelings. I believe that universal law will solve this problem. This problem should be solved in this way in our country, as in all parts of the world, in England, in Spain, so it shouldn't be in the way of prosecutors. Pressing governments in these kinds of problems, arresting lawmakers... That's us... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0806par0222	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0805par0223	Thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0807par0225	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0806par0226	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0808par0227	You're the vice president of the group? What are you?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0807par0228	I don't suppose it's up to you to decide what I am, is it? Don't whistle like that.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0806par0229	Yes, please... please, Mr. Longhorn, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0807par0230	Mr. President, the assurance of the execution of Ocalan is in the government records, in the archives of the state, a guarantee in the delivery of Ocalan. It's a guarantee given at a time when the National Movement Party is not in the government or Parliament. So the National Party of Action... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] If we show some respect and listen... don't be disrespectful, my friend.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0806par0233	Please, please, Mr. Longitude, complete, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0807par0234	If state records are released, it will be revealed when the state guarantees and guarantees of the execution of Ocalan (Ecalan) will be granted, and it will prove that the Nationalist Movement Party is not in Parliament and the government. So...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0806par0235	Thank you. Your words have been filed.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0807par0236	I thank you, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0809par0237	That's right, February 15th, MHP wasn't in Parliament.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0806par0238	Members of parliament, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Turkoglu, come in. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0810par0242	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group for Proposal No. 164. I salute you all. Intelligence can't be questioned or tried as long as it's underground, because it's already unknown, but once it's on the ground, it means it's in the field of the state of law, and the intelligence people have to be tried as well as everyone else. No one in the democratic state of law can be secular, no one is above the law. The government, which made it a government policy to take the areas that the Constitution left out of judicial control yesterday, is now trying to derail the AKP's train, which constitutes a crime, and it is time for the Prime Minister to write three letters and leave them to his successor. Dear lawmakers, this proposal, which contains a change in the MIT Law, is incompatible with the procedure. The principle of the generality of the law is violated by this arrangement. One of the basic principles in both the state of law and the context of law technique is the principle of the generality of the law. Democracy rejects private legislation. The law cannot be made, whether it is intended for a person's right or benefit, or to punish anyone or the people, to affect their situation in accordance with the law or the law. The general purpose of the law is to protect the public interest. By ignoring the benefits of the general community, law enforcement and security cannot be provided for a public official to act outside the general rules or even commit a criminal act. In terms of law technique, the agency's laws are limited to the services of those institutions and regulate the powers and responsibilities of those institutions alone. This is especially organised in the purposes and scopes of the law. The MIT Law is also a law that regulates the duties and responsibilities of the MIT; the purpose of this law, titled "Aggression" is: the purpose of this law is to organise the basic and procedures of the State Intelligence Agency and its establishment, its work and its activities. In this framework, you can't regulate the service criteria, duty and authority responsibilities of village services staff or meteorological officers under the MIT Law, and if you try to regulate it, then this arrangement is more like your favorite work than your organization law. Now, you're attempting to arrange an investigation procedure against a departmental and neighborhood watcher, or a police officer of the Chemisgeek Municipality, in response to claims that MIT personnel committed a crime in the course of duty. This is contrary to both the administration system established by the Constitution and its rule of law. The Turkish legal system adopted a general law on actions defined as crimes by the Turkish Penal Code and other laws. This law is Law 4483. The rules of this law apply if there are allegations that all public officials have committed crimes against their duties regardless of their title and institutions. With this law, the prosecution of all public officials is subject to the permission of the authorities, or their superiors, to allow it. Under this law, the MIT Undersecretary's trial for the crime related to his duty is already subject to the Prime Minister's permission, but the exceptions are also under general law. A number of crimes stemming from the mission, including embezzlement, bribery, intimidation, conflict, are directly under the jurisdiction of the republic's prosecutors and are not asked for permission. Another exception is the actual exception brought by the AKP government. The CMK and the special authority courts are being held, while the catalog of Article 250 will be held in these courts. This arrangement has been adopted as a special arrangement with the incentive and leniency of power, and has been brought to the top of the rules of the procedure that regulates the trial of officers in other laws. As MIT officers were arrested at Erzincan, the late Explorer Kozinoglu was taken into custody, while investigations were launched directly and unsanctioned against the president of the Chiefs of Staff and the former Chief of Staff, government officials applauded these practices and defended and encouraged the savings of the investigation and prosecution of the private court without the permission of the officer, but today, when the judge's spear touched his heart, he opened the apocalypse and the special authorities could not investigate public officials without permission. I have to ask the government, aren't you the one who left this power out of control and made it daring to design politics, encouraging community engineering, allowing it to become the source of social and political crises? You were laughing when someone was unfairly and unlawfully converting judicial measures into punishment, and now you're complaining about the monster you created. In this case, the Prime Minister says, "Men wait a minute." He who does it finds it, and he who sows the wind reaps the storm. Even if we thought for a moment that the government's purpose was legitimate, we still can't say that this method you adopted is legitimate. If the Prime Minister wants his special public officials to be protected by the judiciary, then you can organise these issues in Law 4483 or in the provisions of the CMC of the competent courts. Perhaps the only law you cannot make is the MIT Law. Honourable lawmakers, the proposal is fundamentally objectionable. The Turkish state's Prime Minister is being set up by this proposal. And those who bring this provision are devising a mighty plot. With this arrangement, the political responsibility of the prime minister's office is being transformed into criminal responsibility. The bureaucratic and legal responsibility, which is exclusive to public officials, is mainly imposed on the political institution, which accepts no responsibility except political responsibility. In democracies, the political institution makes political decisions, and under the existing laws, bureaucrats act by turning them into actions. The assessment of decisions made by society, the recognition and detention of decisions reflected in the polls, and the wrong decisions are punished there. The obligation to adhere to the law during the implementation of political decisions is for bureaucrats. Public officials must carry out their political instructions within legal limits as legislation and general, private decisions. Otherwise, carrying out orders and instructions that the law considers to be a crime will not save themselves from legal responsibility. However, even if the Prime Minister gave a criminal order, the public officials would not be able to carry out this order. Another constitutional rule, however, is that all actions and procedures of the administration are under judicial control. His wisdom is already closed in the days of the government. So about a public official who was alleged to have committed a crime, I gave him a special task, he doesn't need to be tried. Even if he says so, prosecutors will continue the process, the Prime Minister's administrative savings in this direction will be brought to justice. Thus, the final decision will be made by the judiciary, as in Law 4483. If the prosecution removes the Prime Minister's decision not to allow the investigation, the prosecution will be able to start the investigation. Now you're going to say, if this law does not give anyone immunity, then why do you object? The reason is that political authority in democracies can't be pushed to this extent into criminal responsibility. This arrangement is a sneaky arrangement that opens up the way to put the prime minister's office in the position of the accused, setting the stage for political crisis and chaos in the country. Now let's think for a moment, when the Prime Minister's request for trial on the Undersecretary of the MIT came before him, I gave him a special task, let him not be judged. When he says, "Let the prosecutor take this decision to the State." When the State Department lifts the Prime Minister's decision and judges on its way, the trial will begin, but this time, not only will the Undersecretary of MIT be the prime minister, but the Prime Minister, who has been made public by his own decision, will be the number one suspect in the case. Since terror crimes are considered especially outside the armor of immunity, all necessary conditions for the arrest of prime ministers will be provided. Therefore, this freak change that has been brought before you, let alone our request as opposition, your own Prime Minister's safety, please withdraw for your conversation with him. Today the Prime Minister's name may be Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and tomorrow someone other than this Parliament will be Prime Minister. Looking at it with these glasses would be enough to see the truth. I salute your grand delegation, the respected MPs of the Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0811par0252	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP on behalf of his people now. Mr. Original, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0812par0257	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, dear friends, this law has been in session all morning. What is the essence of this law? It's actually the new green law, different shades of green. American green, Saudi green, Al Qaeda green, sir, drug green, shrine green, you can expand. You are creating the Polat Alemdar, and you are producing the Polat Alemdar. This law is very dangerous, and I told you on the commission, it's a law that will trouble the Prime Minister. With the change you've brought in, you've also said that other public officials who were assigned by the Prime Minister, except for the MIT officials, were also appointed by the Prime Minister. Are there judges involved in the concept of a public servant? Does it?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0813par0260	It does.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0812par0261	The fellow who proposed the law, says, "Comer. " Tomorrow, Mr. Prime Minister, if a special member of the special prosecutor's office were to assign a special assignment, where would this end? Mr. Secretary, the Prime Minister has assigned you a deputy minister. What are you going to do about yourself if he assigns these assistants to you tomorrow? Look, friends, there's a cabinet in the parliamentary regime, there's a Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister is first among the equal. So he's not the only guy. The government consists of the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers as a whole and is responsible for the political project. Again, according to our Constitution, the ministers are responsible to the Prime Minister and are also responsible for the actions and procedures of those under his command. One of you is the Police Department, the governorate. Now, if Mr. Prime Minister were to appoint a police commissioner under the order of the Home Secretary, Mr. Prime Minister would not allow it tomorrow for the crimes committed by this person, but the minister would be responsible. That's the arrangement you're bringing in. In fact, you don't know what you're bringing, because the Law says that... there's just been some debate about 250, so, sir, here's the 26th article of the MIT Law. It was true, but you're adding something to the previous state of the 26th article, because of the nature of the mission and the crimes they committed during its mission, or because of the crimes committed by the First Amendment of the CMC. What crimes, friends? Disruption of state unity and country integrity, TCK 302; cooperation with the enemy, 303; incite war against the state, 304; recruitment against the foreign state, 306. Syria... right now, a terrorist organization called the Free Syrian Army has been deployed in Turkey, where they have been trained to go back to Syria and commit acts of terror by going back to Syria. If someone were to be caught there tomorrow, dear friends, even if they say to Al-Muhaberat, "Mr. Prime Minister has appointed me." How would our country be in the international community if he recorded it? According to international law, it's a cause of war. How can you give such authority to the Prime Minister? Look, the MIT is responsible for the current arrangement. Let it be responsible, but you're doing such a dangerous job that will inconvenience the government of the Republic of Turkey. Dear friends, I'm warning you again, please don't do this Oslo interview, because of the KCK case, this arrangement that you've brought in in in such a hurry will put you in trouble tomorrow, and the Prime Minister will be in trouble. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0814par0271	Thank you, Mr. Original. Second speaker on behalf of Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye. Here you go, sir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Turkoglu, you have five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0815par0276	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute you all. Those who say we've sat down with these four times -- with the terrorist organization -- those who slander this vile slander will pay for it everywhere. We've never sat down with the terrorist organization, and we'll never sit down. In our philosophy, in our understanding, that can't happen. Let them take care of themselves. You should know that a government headed by Recep Tayyip Erdogan will never sit at the table with a terrorist organization. We're people's lawyers. CHP continues to practice law in Silivri. Kılıçdaroğlu and Bahçeli, if you claim that we are sitting at the table, you must prove it. If you don't prove it, you're a mufteur. Now, today, we're discussing a proposal for the release of the MIT officials, who were under investigation, who were known to be meeting with the terrorist organisation, the PKK and the KCK. In this frame, will you not just trust us here, or will you not trust Mr. Prime Minister? I'm asking Mr. Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ Sir. Please tell him: Are we going to trust Mr. Prime Minister because of the speech I first read in Kayseri, or are we going to trust Mr. Prime Minister who sent this proposal here? I'd appreciate it if they told us that. I will not address the provisions of the Civil Code which were violated as it came to the agenda of the General Assembly, because at a time when the Civil Code and the Constitution were mopped up, there was no point in a Parliament where the violations of the Civil Code and the Constitution did not disturb anyone, but, as we all know, a private prosecutor, a former Deputy Prime Minister, a former Deputy Prime Minister, Hakan Fidan, and a group of former MİT executives were invited to testify in public as part of a case known as the KCK case. Chief Justice Minister Mahmut Assad Bozkurt, in front of the Public Prosecutor's Office, explains why the word "Publicity" at the time was meant to be as follows: "One day prosecutors may have to question the Prime Minister and even the presidents to protect the republic," he said. The prosecutor of the Republic has been judged by various topics, such as calling members of the MIT to testify from the information and documents available to him, the conflict with the government of the community, the struggle with the community, the obstruction of the Syrian operation, the pro-Iranism of Hakan Fidan (Israel) and the fact that he does not like Hakan Fidan (Israel). The D.A. was saying something. According to information and documents obtained during the investigation of the PKK/KCK, members of the MIT who have infiltrated the PKK/KCK in different dimensions, from İmralı to other identities, to MİT personnel who have been infiltrated into the PKK/KCK, who passed instructions on how to perform the new violent actions of the organisation given to Kandil (KCK) under the supervision and support of MIT personnel, who have not shared them with the police and soldiers, who have agreed to allow their actions to take place in the wake of the attack by the People's Party on July 6, 2011. The D.A. has called on the MIT executives mentioned to seek their information on this. But the government doesn't agree, and there are a lot of people in this House who wouldn't approve of this injustice and this persecution, of course I believe that. I'd like to give you an example of the Holy Prophet. And when he saith unto him who hath been wronged, pray unto him who hath been wronged, and unto him who hath been wronged; and help him. And when he saith unto him, O Prophet, why should we pray unto the wrong-doer? And pray that they do no more wrong than they do wrong. ▪ That, today, is the duty we've been entrusted with in this House. No more mistakes, no more mistakes, and let's all reject this offer together. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0816par0285	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Members of parliament, there is a motion on the matter according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. The 4th Amendment proposal in 164 rows. Article 72 of the discussion on the subject. We provide and propose that the clause be carried out accordingly. There has been a process in which the İstanbul Special Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office has called on the National Intelligence Agency officials to testify and has turned into an interagency crisis. In the process of judicial action, the executive body was involved, and a law proposal brought the matter before the legislature. This is a violation of the civil code of law. A) Parliamentary Civil Charter 40. It includes the sentence "proposals to the presidency will be sent to the Prime Minister immediately." Has the proposal been sent to the Prime Minister? Has the Prime Minister made a distribution to relevant institutions and organizations? Is the agency and the agencies' opinion on the proposal collected? As a result, the offer is not clear whether it is appropriate or not. B) The tender of the proposal is incomplete. There have been allegations of unconstitutional breach of the Constitution regarding this law. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission must have its opinion. In addition, since there is an agency law, the Commission for Law, Plan and Budget should be discussed in the Commission for Foreign Affairs, Internal Affairs and National Defence. Therefore, it is not in accordance with the Civil Code provisions that the proposal for a change should be discussed only in the Justice Commission. C) Since there is a court order and a judicial process, the Constitution's "interview" is 138. It's against matter. The National Intelligence Agency Act is 26. Its clause is tied to the Prime Minister's permission to prosecute the MIT Mensup. However, C. M. K 250. The Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, and the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice shall be held in exception to this law. It is not possible to talk about a lack of regulation in the face of these provisions. The bidder has already stated that he has made an offer, rather than a norm gap, because of the interpretation. If there is a mistake in the priorities and interpretation of the laws, the judiciary can correct it in its internal dynamics. In addition, the Justice Department can resolve these interpretation differences with regulatory procedures. Attempting to make a law for every interpretation difference is untenable. Again, there are no legal references and laws-making techniques in the proposal of "Those assigned by the Prime Minister to perform a special task." In a state of law, it is unthinkable to give Prime Minister such authority and responsibility. Also, C. M. K 250. Crimes in the article are very serious, starting with treason, like State Secrets, Espionage, Constitutional Laws. This arrangement burdens the prime ministers with a heavy responsibility, leading to the turning of all attention to this office in any unsolved, unsolved, unsolved case. In this way, an environment bound by the Prime Minister and guaranteed protection from the judiciary will be established. There's a possibility that this Prime Minister will turn into the Deep State. This is against the principles of the state of law. For some time now, there's been a sneak attack on the government and its institutions. In the face of extraordinary developments in our country and in our recent geography, it is vital that our institutions be in a democratic, respected, and trustworthy position based on the principles of the Law State. The National Intelligence Agency must answer these allegations as soon and clearly as possible. That's the M.I. way. T. It is not to prevent members from going to trial. It is not to interfere with the judicial processes that have been initiated in this matter and to give members of the National Intelligence Agency the opportunity to avoid any allegations that undermine the institution's dignity and credibility. The proposal of the law does not serve that purpose, rather increases conflict between institutions. Members of parliament, I submit this motion under Article 72 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer on Article 4 for ten minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0817par0321	Mr. President, thank you. Minister, what dates from 1985 to today, the Oslo model, in which countries, how many meetings, with whom? Have the countries of referees been involved, keeping him safe, overseeing the negotiations within his borders? Representatives of what countries, adjectives and names? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0818par0324	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0819par0326	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you know it's worse than this. You didn't give me a chance to see if the Shayias were involved. One of them was that during the referendum and during the election, the relevant organisation was working against the Republican People's Party, MHP and BDP, again in favour of the ruling party. Can you tell me anything about this? And are there new laws, drafts, and proposals similar to this bill that will come in the coming days? Are there any new packets of justice? Are there packages in particular about this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0820par0330	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0821par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Afet Sun, who attended the Oslo talks, tells PKK representatives exactly as he says: "As you well know, law has been violated in Habur, everything has been destroyed. The goal was to keep certain promises made to you. What promises were made, and why were they not kept? My second question: there is an assessment of you on page seven of the 70-page ACK indictment. Among the lawyers who went to prison with ACK/TM responsible for this meeting, the PKK terrorist organisation leader's hair was cut, the group's decision to meet with the Minister of Justice on cell punishments and organisation, the minister's ringleader Abdullah Ocalan has no idea that his hair has been cut, and so on. Are you the Minister mentioned in this assessment? Why didn't you just say you didn't see him?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0822par0334	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0823par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister has given his own namesake, and my last name, Recep, to my last name, in order to save the special undersecretary of law, which has been called to the statement by the special prosecutor of the special court of his special duties. I had nothing to do with him but the resemblance of my last name. I condemn this illegality in the Free Private.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0822par0339	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0824par0340	Mr. Commissioner, I'd like to ask the Vice President and the bidder. We tried to explain in the commission nine hours and ten hours that the offer was contrary to the Constitution, the Interior Charter, the Turkish Penal Code, and the Law on Compensation, but you insisted on spending it, but you allowed it to be changed in the General Assembly. Now, would you consider giving up this offer at the last minute?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0822par0342	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0825par0343	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, do you intend to grant amnesty in general, rather than make so many laws -- Turkey needs a general pardon?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0822par0346	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0826par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a document published on February 12, 2012 by Emin Vaginaşan, which says that the fact that a large number of people who have been taken into the MIT have been members of a cult in the past year, that 15 high-ranking religious bureaucrats have been transferred to critical places, and that the six retired officers who were not able to be promoted in the army because they were not in the ideological line, has caused trouble with the Ataturkist staff. That's question number one. In the same document, it would be wrong and incomplete to describe what happened at this point as an AKP-cam fight. First of all, Erdogan uses the MIT to restore his power to a permanent regime. What kind of regime is this new, what regime is he trying to turn into, this is the second. Thirdly, the documents reached by the prosecutor's office are the permanent basis of Erdogan's Kurdish issue for both Turkish and Kurdish politics.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0827par0352	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0828par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief mention of the person who has a question for Mr. Cihaner, who, if I may, is not sitting here, is sitting in our Deputy Prime Minister's seat. He asked for information Monday (February 13th) that the Minister of Justice had a private meeting with the Attorney General in Dolmabahçe at noon, if that's true. When the television subtitles for that meeting are written, the Dolmabahçe is now in session with the prosecutor. It is called around 5:45 p.m. on Monday evening. At that hour, when I entered the MYK meeting at the entrance of the AK PARTI headquarters, I was here on live television to the reporter of the same television, while you are announcing me in İstanbul, please correct this mistake. I said, "Please correct this mistake." They apologized and corrected that mistake. So, Mr. Cihaner, this information of yours is not true, it's a mistake made by television. Other than that, how many times has the Oslo model been held, from the question asked by Mr. Longırmak? We don't have any of the answers to those questions. I don't know if there's been any talks about this since 85, but if that's what the information on MIT is about, if that's what they're talking about...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0829par0359	I'd appreciate it if you'd give it to me in writing.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0828par0360	I'll send it to you in writing, Mr. Longneck, if it doesn't stick to the privacy barrier. In favour of the ruling party during the referendum and election, Mr. Kusoglu said the intelligence agency had information that he was working against the opposition party. This is the first time I've heard from you, and maybe it's in the press, and we haven't seen it, but we don't have that kind of information. If there's any sort of a rational issue about this, if you could just find out and let us know, we're ready to do what we need to do. Mr. Light, I'm hearing this from you for the first time, I'm not aware of this.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0830par0364	The indictment.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0828par0365	Maybe. In past history, it's something that I'm aware of when I was a minister before me, but it's the first time you've said it. Mr. Firat asked if it would not be more comfortable to offer a amnesty than to deal with so many laws. They said, "Do you have such an idea?" Dear friends, we don't have the general pardon or any particular arrangement right now.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0831par0369	How do we solve it, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0828par0370	Again, there was a question from Mr. Acar. In a diary article written by Emin Desertasaşan, they made some statements that the members of the MIT had recently been members of a cult. Again, we don't have that kind of information. If you have concrete data on this, we'll do the best we can to assess them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0832par0373	Mr. President, we have a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0833par0374	Mr. President, the Commission has been asked a question, so if you'll excuse me, I'll answer it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0834par0375	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0833par0376	A friend of ours, I can't remember his name, Mr. Kurt asked a question, and I'd like to answer it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0835par0377	He asked the bidder, not you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0833par0378	The proposal was held in accordance with the Charter of the Justice Commission, and it came to the General Assembly. The power to make changes to the General Assembly, of course, belongs to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the MPs on the General Assembly. We have no authority to prevent change in this regard. Therefore, we cannot withdraw the offer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0836par0380	Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0837par0381	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for the Bingol MP and the Minister of Development. I'd like to ask you about a scandal in Bingol. Let's see what law they're gonna cover this up with. Bingol Karliova has found a high economic source of geothermal water, and you know it. And ye gave glad tidings unto the people of Bingol. The public would laugh at the warming, the greenhousery, the tourist investment. What did you do? You sold the place. One firm entered the tender, you gave it to me for $470,000, four years in installments.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0838par0385	Thank you, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0837par0386	What did the people of Bingol gain from this sale? He won zero lira. Why? Because the expenses were equivalent. You gave it away for free, and there's nothing left for the County Special Administration. How will you face the people of Bingol, Minister?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0838par0389	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Congressmans, there are seven motions on the matter. I'll have the motions read according to the order of the arrival, and then I'll process them according to the order of the anomaly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "This Law shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers" under Article 4 of the Law Against the Amendment to State Intelligence Services 2/343 and the National Intelligence Service Act. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "This Law shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers" under Article 4 of the Law Against the Amendment to State Intelligence Services 2/343 and the National Intelligence Service Act. 4 of the 164 Numbered Law Proposal. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 4: The Prime Minister governs these laws. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. I'd like to request that the Prime Minister's statement be added instead of the Council of Ministers. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. We demand and demand that the clause be changed in the following manner. The Minister of the Interior shall carry out these provisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. We demand and demand that the clause be changed in the following manner. The Minister of Justice shall carry out these provisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 4th Amendment in 164 rows. We propose and supply the clause to be replaced by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. Mr. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0839par0415	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0838par0416	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0840par0417	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0838par0418	Mr. Kaplan, here you are, sir. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0841par0420	Dear friends, such a motion goes to such a serious law. It's best if the Ministry of Animalry and Forestry conducts it together, no Security Co-ordinating of Internal Affairs or Bashir Atalay. Now I'm going to tell you two bitter truths. We're closing this, this final, and you're on your own with responsibility and conscience. Now, in the '99 elections, the CHP didn't make it through the dam. The 99 elections were held on April 18th. We don't know why they gave us Ocalan (Ecevit) in the February 15th plot. Even the coalition partners after that period have explanations. With a commitment, you will not commit. There are allegations that it has been delivered under oath. A lot's been said about that. However, I'd like to draw your attention to that process. The reason I'm saying this is that Turkey is starting its bid for membership in the European Union in 99. The process of membership of this candidate is rapidly evolving into the negotiation process. It's the days when reforms are spoken of, democracy is spoken of. There's hope from the outside... with external dynamics, law, democracy in Turkey is developing, and there's hope in all areas. During that process, the April 18 elections were held, and after the April 18th elections, a coalition government was formed again in the late Ecevit presidency, and the MHP was the joint coalition at that time. Now, I'll come to the 2002 elections after that. In this process, I will make a point or two about what was done during this coalition administration and what was done to you from 2002 to 2012 - in ten years. During this coalition administration, the Kurdish main language ban was the Coalition government, which began 15 minutes and 30 minutes in RTÜK. So the EC PARTY government did not allow the release of Kurdish literature. The death penalty was lifted during this Coalition Government period, and the vote of the DP, whether hidden or not, was the coalition of DSP, and of that period as a majority. The death penalty has been lifted. Now, changing the status of a member of the state security courts is at this time. But more importantly, take a good look at that period, the basic rights and freedoms, the rights of the individual, the rights of the individual, the rights of the individual, the rights of the household, the life of the work, the fair trial; 17 fundamental rights that have been changed by the Constitution. After 2002, the 2005 Anti-Terror Law was the opposite of constitutional reforms, and at that time there were two parties in parliament, the main opposition CHP. The CHP, in turn, is paying for it today by agreeing to that Anti-Terror Law. Ergenekon, all the reasons for the Silivri case, the special prosecutors, the special courts are the courts you brought. However, in the 2001 reform, the Constitution had the right to a fair trial. For ten years, you have not been able to reform the age of coalition parties in the age of apprentices, phalanx and mastery. Look, what Mr. Atalay, who gave us our answers, says: "The Kurdish issue is not solved with guns, with soldiers; it is the problem of democracy. "If democracy is a problem, you will give up your 10 percent dam, the financial aid will be distributed fair, the election system will be fair, you will close the private courts, you will stop these investigations, you will stop every day, you will give up government terrorism to the KCKESTs; you will open the way of freedom of organization; secret investigations, secret investigations, secret evidence, secret evidence, and you will give up dynamite to the state of law with the evidence that you have increased its privacy with this law. This democracy is not something to eat like bread and cheese, it has rules, my friends. In your ten-year period of power, you were unable to perform a year in terms of human rights, law, justice, thought, freedom of organization, culture, working life of a four-part coalition government, the time of the coalition governments.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0842par0427	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0841par0428	That's the problem. That's how we say our last words here, and we're transferring them to the Ministry of Forestry and the Ministry of Animalism. There's no other way. Good morning to you all.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0843par0431	Mr. Kaplan, thank you, sir. Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who don't... those who don't... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. We supply and demand that the clause be changed in the following way. ▪ Article 4. - The Minister of Justice shall carry out these laws. Commission?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0844par0438	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0843par0439	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0845par0440	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0843par0441	Mr. Refik Eryılmaz, Hatay MP. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0846par0443	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, there is no need to be a professor of law in order to express an opinion on the content and purpose of the law and the fundamental principles of the law. You have a very serious reaction to us here when we say that this law gives the Prime Minister very broad powers and even gives him the authority to form a gang. This is not a power given to Recep Tayyip Erdogan, my friends, but I agree for a moment that Recep Tayyip Erdogan will start a gang, but you must know that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is temporary. Who can guarantee that the next prime minister will not use this clause as a pleasure? That's what we really want to draw attention to. Dear lawmakers, this law proposal to protect the Prime Minister will not only protect the Prime Minister, but will bring with it the dangers and inconveniences that cannot be accepted in the state of law. I would like to share these dangers with you in matter: 1) With this law, the Prime Minister is granted the authority of the king. 2) The prime minister is granted the authority to give the job to whomever he wants. 3) You are still subject to the Prime Minister's permission to investigate the crimes committed during his mission. 4) You make a personal law. 5) You are interfering in an ongoing investigation against the Constitution. 6) You are again giving the Prime Minister the authority to grant permission for the person he has appointed. It's a fact that such open-ended, arbitrary and unsupervised powers have no place in the state of law, that anyone who knows the law will accept. Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ says there is no crime here, there is duty, in the process of taking statements from the Undersecretary of MIT and other MIT members. Mr. Bozdağ, are you in court? Don't you know that the authority to decide whether or not there's a crime in a case is in court? If there's really no crime in this case, if it's a mission, what's the rush? Why are you trying to block the investigation? Why are you trying to cover this up? Why are you trying to pass a law like you're smuggling stuff out of a fire so you can interfere with the judiciary? Let the special prosecutors, the special authorities you set up and defend and protect at every opportunity, decide. In this country, the MPs, the Chief of Staff, the mayors, the lawyers, these special officials you have established have been taken into custody and questioned by prosecutors and courts. In the criticism against this, you said, "You are interfering with justice." You said, "Let the judge decide in his own place." So, what now? Why don't you say, "Don't interfere with the judiciary," now that his judgment is independent? Because it's getting to you, isn't it? So you're trying to cover up this whole dark thing with a rush of guilt and guilt. Do you realize that with this bill, you've murdered law and rule of law? Mr. Bozdağ says it takes a crime to infiltrate the organization. Reports have reported that about 1,000 MIT members have infiltrated the CK. So, Mr. Bozdağ, what crimes did these thousand MIT employees have to commit to infiltrate the TK?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0847par0455	We don't have that much room.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0846par0456	Are you afraid this will get out? You're gonna have to explain this sooner or later. As for the special authorities courts, you cannot speak of the rule of law in this country unless the state security courts, which are the result of the 1980 coup, are eliminated from the continuation of the state security courts. For the sake of law and justice, special authorities must be removed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Bozdağ, the special authority of the courts...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0848par0460	Mr. Eryilmaz, thank you, sir. Time's up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0846par0461	Whatever we say, remember...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0848par0462	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0849par0463	Mr. President, vote on the motion, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0848par0464	Mr. Eryılmaz... Thank you, Mr. Eryilmaz.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0850par0465	In the face of this legal massacre, history will certainly judge you.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0848par0467	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. We demand and demand that the clause be changed in the following manner. Ihsan Kalkavan (Samsun) and his friends The Minister of the Interior shall carry out these provisions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0851par0474	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0848par0475	Government?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0852par0476	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0848par0477	Mr. Slim, come in. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0853par0480	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. Last year, I warned the bureaucrats from this bench that Turkey is a state of law, so do your jobs and transactions accordingly, and don't get involved in the political interests of the party states. Again, stand up to the bureaucrats, stand up to the backbone, obey the rule, don't be afraid, remember the law, the Constitution, 137. Well, we're all seeing it today. Everyone saw that if the law was used as a weapon, it would have an absolute boomerang effect. Now, the gun turned and shot themselves. You bureaucrats, see your future. As with the Undersecretary of the MIT, let everyone see how heavy the bill of written words in the water is. I guess everyone understands that nothing in this country goes unrequited. Many lawmakers have expressed their views here, many lawmakers. I'd like to give you a little example as a friend who knows our close political history. In 2003, 2004, I will now read to you from Parliament. Husni Army, Kütahya AKP MP says that Mr. Husemettin Özkan and the former Minister of State, Mr. Recep Önal. You're sending the Deputy Prime Minister's permission to the Supreme Court because he delayed it, and now you're giving the Prime Minister that permission! You'll never send it.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0854par0485	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0853par0486	You're making a law. You don't even know what you're voting for. You don't know what you're voting for. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Then even delaying permission is a crime, a trial. You said here. If you look at the council records, you'll see these. Now, you can stop the trial by giving the Prime Minister such authority, but you can't eliminate the crime, sooner or later the account will be paid. The process that doesn't allow it won't complete the legal process because a strong suspicion of crime has been determined by the prosecutor. Public officials have committed the act, which raises strong suspicion of crime. Congressmans bear the same weight for the Prime Minister as the verb, which is suspected of crime, carries the same weight for the Undersecretary of the MIT. I'm calling on all politicians, valued lawmakers, justice is lame, but it's never blind. Now, let me make you a suggestion. See, even the MP who listened to my proposal, Recep, he's going to lose his edge, he's going to be so exalted in the eyes of the Prime Minister that he can't even think of it, even our Recep can't think of it, how you're protecting me. My proposal is this: There was a clause in the past when the TÜBITAK Law was discussed: the Prime Minister appoints the president at once. • The Prime Minister will allow the trial of the president and members of the RTÜK once. Now, look, I am looking for a courageous AKP MP, who will be very exalted in the eyes of the Prime Minister. Let a temporary clause be served, let the commission sit down, or make a joke motion on this interim clause, for once the Prime Minister cannot be tried. Let him make a motion. (CHP cheers) Only this will save it. Other than that, you can save Hakan Fidan, but other than that, I say you can never save the Prime Minister, and I pay tribute to the High Council at this hour of the morning.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0855par0494	Thank you, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0856par0495	Mr. President, a statement has been used in the speech of Mr. Orjip. Mr. Hosni read a passage from the speech given by the Army. Under that motion were the signatures of the Republican People's Party deputy leaders under the motion to set up an investigation commission on the ministers. I submit to the information of the House.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0855par0497	Thank you. He's on the books. Now, I submit the motion to your votes: those who do not accept... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 4th Amendment to State Intelligence Services and National Intelligence Agency Act. I'd like to request that the Prime Minister's statement be added instead of the Council of Ministers. Mehmet Erdoğan (Muğla) and his friends Oktay Ozturk (Erzurum) and his friends
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0857par0506	The commission disagrees, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0858par0507	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0859par0508	He didn't ask, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0860par0509	He answered without asking, sir, are you asking?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0861par0510	Sir? Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0860par0511	You didn't ask the commission, and they answered.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0861par0512	I'm assuming I asked, maybe your husband didn't hear. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0862par0516	We'll take a look at the records.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0861par0517	We'll see. Anything can happen at this hour.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0863par0518	The Commissioner didn't hear it either, and you think you're asking.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0861par0519	No one's claiming he's not tired at this hour, I think he's in the group.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0864par0520	Mr. President, would you please invite Mr. Salim Beslim to the post to wake up the lawmakers who are sleeping in the back?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0861par0521	Let's wake him up, sir. Let's wake him up. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0865par0523	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on Article 4 of the Law Proposal No. 164. I salute your high council. Of course, the property in this verse is not someone's personal property. This property is the Turkish state our ancestors entrusted us with at the cost of our grandfather's blood. So, in order to ensure the survival of the Turkish state, we need justice, we need justice, we need it all the time, and from now on, everyone will always need it. Now, you've set up tent courts with an incident you did in Habur, and justice is independent, and we're not involved. The investigation that began in Şemdinli went to the Chief of Staff, where a prosecutor was discharged, then justice is independent, and what should we do? When searching for the Special War Office of the General Staff, you said that justice is independent, what should we do? One third of the generals of the Turkish army were arrested while justice was independent, what should we do? When journalists were arrested, the Supreme Court was independent, and we had nothing to do with it. You said. You said, "What should we do when police chiefs who have been in the police force for years have been arrested?" When the MPs were arrested, you said, "What should we do?" But when it came to questioning the 28th of February, when the Lighthouse came to question the defendants, when it came to questioning the MIT people, the sound, the sound. Then let's make special arrangements, remove the prosecutors, find a new handle for everything. You don't even trust your own judgment with the September 12th referendum, and you're telling us: "Trust the Prime Minister." So you've lifted the independence of the judiciary, and we don't know? Why should we trust the Prime Minister? Isn't the Prime Minister on the side? Isn't the Prime Minister the leader of a party? With 50 percent of the vote, the Prime Minister now has a great status? What reason is there for us to trust him when there's a lot of corruption, a lot of irregularities? You said no to bureaucratic oligarchy. Now that you've come, you've created your own bureaucratic oligarch, you're looking for cover to protect it. Give it up. Now, in these situations, if you want -- of course your number is enough -- you can make any law you want, you can change any law you want, you can change any law you want, you can get rid of these courts in the world, but you can't get rid of the courts in the court; there's no way to save you from Hakan Fidan, there's no way the Minister of Justice can save you or the Prime Minister of Justice. Before you vote on this law, think again for the sake of God. I salute you all, and blessed be your Friday.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0866par0531	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Now it's time for Mr. Enver Erdem. Elazig. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0867par0535	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment of Article 4 of the proposed law on the amendment of the MIT Law. I'd like to sum it up in a few words this early in the morning without taking up too much of your time. This law, of course, has been judged in various ways by valuable lawyers and valued lawmakers, and the shortcomings of this law have been tried at all levels. However, as we all know, as the AKP Group, since you consider these texts to be sacred texts, you have not taken into account or taken into account any motion, change or assessment of them. Indeed, the greatest wrongdoers have brought them out of the wrongdoers. Indeed, you are trying to justify them. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, once to sum up this arrangement in a few sentences, this arrangement is a legal problem, a moral flaw; it is not a proper arrangement when it is looked at in the right direction. It's unfortunate for the friend who brought this arrangement. Again, this arrangement, in terms of procedure and shape, brings and carries many problems in parallel. In terms of the law-making technique, the regulations that should be implemented in Turkey's Grand National Assembly have not been implemented, and the commissions that need to be discussed have not been discussed enough. This arrangement has brought with it a lot of problems in its true nature. In particular, there are violations of articles such as the 2nd, 10th, 128th, and 138th of the Constitution. I can't repeat it because you've heard a lot about the third joke of the 138th article, but there's no question in the Parliament about a case that's going on, but the question, the interview, there's nothing left that hasn't been discussed. ▪ Is this arrangement moral? When we look at the assessment at the point, it is not moral, it is not moral, it is not moral. Chiefs of Staff, who should be tried in accordance with the rules of special judgment on the same matter, have been tried, investigated, arrested. The Attorney General Erzincan has been subjected to similar procedures. But when it comes to this, such an arrangement is needed here. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important summarys today is what Mr. Hasip Kaplan, the Vice President of the BDP Group, said: "We are on the side of these processes." This is a very important sentence. They said, "We support the Habur expansion, which we consider to be a disgrace." They said, "We support Oslo." They said, "We support the protocols, and we support the protocols." In fact, we all know that we listen to the BDP Group's view almost every day. I'd like to address you, the AK PARTY, and the esteemed representatives of the government, are you, for once, honest in the face of this nation, on the side of this Habur disgrace? Do you approve of this Oslo process? Do you approve of these protocols? Do you support autonomy? Do you accept a second native language? Are you willing to turn the PKK into a police force? Do you accept the use of statements to your own governor, the police commissioner, meaning friend of the PKK? Now, that's basically the answer to all the questions. As an AK PARTY, you remain silent about these matters, you're not speaking openly here. In this context, we, the National Party of Action, are completely opposed to this process, and we have been asked to have a closed discussion by our Deputy President of the Group to make this process clear and clear. You didn't agree to that either. You're trying to hide from this nation what your purpose is, but even if it's your justice, your understanding of the law...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0868par0546	Mr. Erdem, thank you, sir, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0867par0547	How God's justice will come about you, and so will we.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0868par0549	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Congressmans, since the two motions I'm about to make are the same, I'm going to proceed with the motions, I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders, or I'm going to have them read their reasons. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "This Law shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers" under Article 4 of the Law Against the Amendment to State Intelligence Services 2/343 and the National Intelligence Service Act. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0869par0555	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0868par0556	Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0870par0557	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0868par0558	I'm reading the reasons: It is intended to use a more appropriate language of expression. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. In favor of Ali Riza Ozturk Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0871par0565	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I made a promise in favor of this bill. In fact, I was going to vote yes to this bill, but since it is contrary to the principle of law, which is contrary to the principle of law, which is defined in Article 2 of the Constitution, which is contrary to the principle of the rule of law, I would not be able to use any authority that is not based on the Constitution of the Constitution, or authority which is not based on the Constitution. Since this law has already given the Prime Minister unlimited authority, since it is contrary to the principle of the Constitution of the Constitution, I have given it in violation of the Constitution, that I will not be able to impose any authority on the principle of the Constitution of the Constitution, and that I will not be able to impose it against the principle of the Constitution. I shall not be able to make an order against the Constitution, in violation of the Constitution. Because I'm a lawyer, I'm a lawyer before I become a congressman, because I'm a man who has a sense of responsibility to my children before I become a congressman, and I'm a responsible person for my nation. Look, you have democracy. These landscapes began in today's country in your day. It says here that the times of the law are hard. On October 20, 2009, we discussed the process that began with the Habur opening on this bench. Then you've bent the law. You took the law, you set up mobile courts, tent courts in Habur. You gave the judges a hard time making decisions there. One shouldn't do things in his life he'd regret, not do things he'd be ashamed of, and if one should be ashamed of what he's done, he shouldn't be ashamed of what he's done. You have made an opening in Habur, and you have not been able to defend him with courage. Then, from that date until now, you met with the heads of the terrorist organization, but you said the government had spoken to the meeting you had made. But what you've brought here today is actually a concrete indication that the meeting was made by the Prime Minister himself. Why don't we see each other when you're seeing each other? If it's a shame to see you, if it's a shame to see you, if it's too shameful to go public, why did you talk to him? Sir, the secret... the secrecy is gone, everything is out. Why don't you tell me after this? The question that should be questioned here is, Mr. Prime Minister, what law does he give the members of the MIT and Hakan Fidan? It is as if the Prime Minister had the authority to appoint members of the MSI or Hakan Fidan. As a special representative, it is not questioned as if he had such authority from the Constitution. It is questioned whether those who have gone are acting contrary to the authority given by the administration. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My dear friends, what clause of the Constitution did the Prime Minister take the authority he gave them, which should be questioned here?
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0872par0569	Mr. Ozturk, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0871par0570	Therefore, I would like you to vote no for this law on your historical responsibility. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0872par0573	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Against you, Mr. Kamer Young, Congressman of Tunisia. Here you go, young man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0873par0578	Mr. President, we have come to the final vote of a bill to bring in a dictatorial regime. Now, there's a KCK operation going on, the D.A.'s making calls, getting documents. These documents show that the work has arrived, based on Erdoğan. There he gets so much evidence that he immediately calls to Sadullah Ergin. Who is Sadullah Ergin? The man who designed Turkey's justice. What should we do? Look, when Hakan Fidan wasn't even the Undersecretary of MIT, Deputy Prime Minister, how are we supposed to save this? Sir, according to the documents, Mr. Recep has been involved in certain incidents. Let Mr. Recep win an election, let Turkey go from his hand, no problem! He went to win the June 12th elections, he negotiated with Barzani, he negotiated with the PKK. He said, "You vote with me, don't act with me until June 15th, and then I'll give you what you want." Then he called them, the Justice thing, and then this bill came.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0874par0581	You keep writing it down, fantasizing about politics. It's normal for you to talk like that at this hour!
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0873par0582	Now, we've seen the same kind of law proposal before. Now, one day, Recep Tayyip Erdogan brought a RTÜK Law in the middle of a night like this, and the Prime Minister would allow the RTÜK Law to press charges against the head of RTÜK. Even though Zahid Akman was guilty, he knew that a lot of money had been coming, but he did not allow four years, and he sat himself in that position. Now, AKP people want to bring down this state because of their hatred and hatred for the state of the Republic of Turkey. What do you have to do to bring it down? First, you have to destroy the institutions of that state. They destroyed justice at first, they destroyed the Turkish Armed Forces because his Chief of Staff... says: "Building and managing a terrorist organization." So, Abdullah Gul, couldn't you throw it there? You did. Isn't it your fault? It's you. Now, my dear friends, along with the AKP, the regime has changed in Turkey. Now, this law, which has been passed, has been said by our friends, in the first place, against the 138th Amendment of the Constitution. Now, with this law brought in, he's going to commit murders in the future. Who's on the network? Mr. Recep will form a gang. He's going to finish his rivals. How he doesn't finish because he's looking now; if he stays in law enforcement, they'll judge him, he's got a place to go. He's going somewhere with Silivri, but what's he doing now to prevent it? He's bringing in a gang law, it's a gang law. I mean, where in the world... Look, examine Hitler's regime, examine Mussolini's regime. Mussolini and Hitler, the genius, did not receive such authority in their own parliament. So I'm going to start a terrorist organization, I'm going to assign men to that organization, they're going to commit crimes, and then you're going to get my permission to judge them. Where in the world has this been seen, my friends? What's he gonna do? You know, Hamas brought a man, and Al Qaeda brought him. Recep Erdogan also has a goal, a goal given by the United States: the Sunni regime in Turkey, the Sunni regime in Syria, the Sunni regime in Egypt, or rather a Sunni state regime in which Muslim brothers rule. What's he gonna do? What will he do with those who will interfere with his own purpose? Hamas will kill them with a channel of organizations brought from al Qaeda to Turkey. What's he gonna do? And then they won't be allowed to judge. Now, sir, it is said that the judgment... Friends, Mr. Sadullah, what day is he staying? He's already designing the judgment as he wishes. He's up there tomorrow, he's gonna decide which law goes to court, and he's gonna make a decision there anyway. So look, dear lawmakers, no one with a conscience, morals, respect for the law can vote on that law. Those who vote for this law are aiding in murder because it is a law that brings murder. If you vote yes, you'll be harboring a murder. So I don't believe any of you will vote for this law. But look, my friends, if you give your children the law the day after tomorrow, they'll see that their father is responsible for those murders, and they'll give you great eulogies. My advice to you is to remove this black spot from your forehead.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0875par0589	Thank you, Mr. Young. Congressmans, your proposal...
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0876par0591	I think the Minister will speak.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0875par0592	One moment, sir, if you'll excuse me, he doesn't have that request. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. Now, members of lawmakers, there is a motion for an open vote on the entire proposal, so I will read the motion and call the signatories. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the full vote of the proposed proposal be held in the form of an open vote. Mehmet Erdogan, Muğla? Here. Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat? Here. Mehmet Shandır, Mersin? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir? Here. S. Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, Isparta? Here. Ali Longırmak, Aydın? Here. Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri? Here. Durmusali Torlak, Istanbul? Here. Celal Adan, Istanbul? Here. Erkan Akçay, Manisa? Here. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar? Here. Necati Özensoy, Bursa? Here. Scholar Light, Kütahya? Here. Enver Erdem, Elazig? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana? Here. Sinan Okan, Iğdir? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon? Here. Congressmans, I'm going to take a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote with an electronic voting device and give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the open vote of Law Proposal No. 164: ▪ Number of votes used: 329 [[x]] The offer is accepted and legalized.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0877par0628	Mr. Secretary, aren't you giving a thank-you speech? Mr. Bekir, aren't you going to give the thank-you speech? (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results.
tbmm-2012-02-16sit08spe0875par0630	Congressmans, there's a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors that I'm going to make you read the proposal and vote: At a meeting of the advisory council on Thursday (16/2/2012), the following proposal was deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. The General Assembly has been advised not to meet on Friday 17/02/2012. Anyone? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Members of parliament, on Tuesday (February 21, 2012) it is 15 p.m., to discuss verbal questions and other tasks from the Commissions with the draft and Proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
