tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Melda Onur, the Istanbul MP who asked for the name of World Water Day. Here you go, Mr. Onur.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0002par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. March 21st is nature's New Year's Eve. In all geography, spring holidays begin to be celebrated. These festivities sometimes go on with religious, sometimes ethnic motifs until summer, but in certain geographys, these holidays will be celebrated by peoples, not by different parts, not by powers. Regrettably, we find interference in the natural life of the people in many basins of Asia Minor, such as Tortum. Today is the anniversary of the liberation of Erzurum and its counties. The Nene Chicks, the descendants of the Black Fatmas, are fighting another war of salvation today. Their grandmother fought against the enemy, but her grandchildren fought against their own law enforcement force. I'm telling you, dear friends, I'm talking about a Tortum people who voted for you 80 percent -- not 50 percent -- who voted for you -- they're fighting for your government's practices. It's such a war that 70, 80-year-old women are seized by their sheets, crawling on the floor in dust. Two ambulances are being sent before 300 law enforcement units are sent. Well, it's kind of a war. All the way to 1939, they're being stripped of their land by the use of emergency nationalization powers that can only be used in the state of war. It's a war. The court sentenced me not to participate in HES actions with Layla, the boy who was led to the crime, to not meet with the participants, as if Layla lived in Istanbul and wanted to participate in a HES action on a Saturday. Friends, Layla does not participate in the HES act, Layla defends her land, her habitat, and her water. There's no environmental movement in Tortum, no environmentalists at all; there's villagers fighting for their lives. There's no PKK, just like someone implied behind our backs, so don't look for it. You don't want HES, but you don't want electricity. You don't want it. You don't want it. You don't want it. You don't want it. It's clean energy. In the end, the DSI saw that the application project was wrong and stopped Project HES because, like all CEDs and audits, this was set up at the desk. So ten of our children were lost at the dam in Adana. Now, we're waiting for the project to be annulled from the Court of State, and on April 4th, we wish that this persecution be removed immediately in the court of the Cabbage Villagers, so that the World Water Day will be celebrated as if it were not a message on paper or a sentence on the stand. Dear friends, I've used this bench mostly for my fellow journalists, especially for arrested journalists. Now, in short, I'd like to remember two of our friends who were arrested and imprisoned abroad: Adam Ozkose and Hamit Coshkun. It hurts all of us to have these two friends there. We'd like our government to take a closer look at this, and if our friends don't have yellow press cards like they're told, please don't think they're not journalists, it's possible that our friends don't have yellow press cards because of the system's opening. I wish these two of our friends would be with us as soon as possible. Finally, I want Mr. Egemen Bagis, who was here yesterday -- not today -- but I'm going to use my right to pick on the stand again -- to have him explain here who the rapist journalist is, if he can't explain it, in my next speech, I'm going to announce that name. Thank you all for listening.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Onur. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mr. Reşat MP, who asked for the honour of March 21, Nevruz Spring Day. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise regarding the March 21st Day of Nevruz. I salute the High Council. I celebrate the Day of March 21st of Nevruz, and wish that spring bring brotherhood and peace, but our wishes and wishes were sadly eclipsed by the news of the martyrs we received from the Southeast Anatolian region yesterday. I wish God's mercy to our six martyrs, to their families and to our nation. Here, terrorists have nothing to do with the holiday celebration. I'd also like to say that their goal is to shed blood, stretch people, and damage the integrity of the state. As a sign of shared joy and sharing of our society as a sign of the origins of neuroses, history and culture, the Nevruz has lived, celebrated, a very important holiday in the Turkish nation for centuries. Because of the sociocultural change we experienced in Anatolia, it has been a joy for all of us to embrace and influence this blessed day by seeing the excitement, blending, and happiness that we have seen in a world that we know better in a time when we have neglected our cultural value. Mr. President, members of parliament have declared and celebrated the Festival of Ergenekon Nevruz on March 21st (March 21st) in Turkey's late 20th century, the Turkish republics Kirgyzistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, and Tataristan within the Russian Federation. In Turkish cultural geography, the festival of Nevruz, which symbolizes unity, aliveness, hope, and brotherhood, did not allow the sacred nation to re-emerge from this historic day and with greater excitement, to corrupt the meaning of its betrayals in recent years. Nevruz is the blessed Ergenekon fire, where the great Turkish nation has sought to rule the continents, leaving a geography that is overflowing with the spirit of freedom. Keeping this fire burning forever should be our greatest goal. Nevruz was not only the beginning of a new season's cycle of prosperity and prosperity, but also the good news of the future for the Turkish nation as well as of material and spiritual resurrection, uprightness and breakthroughs, leaving behind inertia, frustration, fear and despair. Nevruz should be celebrated with that understanding, and he should not be allowed to be transformed into an instrument of tension and unrest, contrary to his spirit. In our country, celebrating the name Sultan Nevruz, this holiday enthusiasm that has reached our day has once again shown its unifying and confluence, and has played a crucial role in developing and sharing our joys with the Middle Asian Turkish communities, especially as a result of recent convergence. Congressmans, we must maintain our customs and customs, our years of beauty. We need brotherhood, peace and love more today than yesterday. As in the past, there are many enemies today who are trying to end our brotherhood, our unity, our unity, our country, to tear it apart, to destroy it. As an excuse for nevruzu, PKK terrorist organization militants try to create tensions in society, disrupt peace, do their best to bring chaos to our country, making so-called holiday celebrations. Congressmans, new scenarios are being rehearsed for treason, our nation is being threatened. Everyone, especially the AKP government, must refuse and react. The government must make the best use of the authority that our people have given them, which they have so far not used properly, and should not compromise. Even though it is delayed, it must be done, absolutely, and the necessary measures must be taken quickly without passing time. Congressmans, it's burning the hearts of our nation that our soldiers, our police, are martyrs. These are the days our nation has had enough of. We are obliged to strongly condemn the attacks on our nation, our country, our flag, our values. I strongly condemn it. It must not be forgotten that those who try to destroy the unity and resurrection of the Turkish nation will not be allowed in the past, at all costs, and traitors will be punished, and there are many examples in history. I celebrate the Day of Nevruz of the entire Turkish world, with the promise of unity and unity to be permanent and a leader in the world.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0005par0045	Thank you, Mr. Right. Congressmans, this 60th, very short request for words is out of the question again. From now on, I don't give out anyone who enters. Otherwise, I'll ask everyone for a written request. I mean, please don't abuse me, you all do, so...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0006par0047	Never!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0005par0048	Please. Since yesterday... from now on, I'm not giving it to anyone who's been in. I mean, I want one piece of paper at a time.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0007par0049	We're not going in, I promise.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0005par0050	According to the Civil Code, the group knows that I have such rights, and the vice presidents know that I will make the decision. For him, it's not right to turn and talk about the same thing 50 times. I mean, I can't promise 20 minutes. I'm here for people. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Vural Katuncu, who wants to talk about geriatric rehabilitation. Here you go, Mr. Cantaloupe.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0008par0055	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise from the esteemed lawmakers on March 18th to March 24th due to the Honor of the Elders Week in our country. I hereby salute the High Council. Age ageing is an inevitable part of human life as it is in the life of all living things. It is our duty to honor and love the elders we carry today, to show them all the zeal we can to give them a better life. We see our elders as our most valuable assets, cultural treasures, who bridge our culture and values between yesterday and today. These values have spent most of their lives serving society and the country, living in age, having seen the day. Therefore, they have the right to live up to human dignity for the rest of their lives and to find the necessary care and support when they are in need of care. It is one of the priorities of society, of our government, of making life easier for the elderly who prepare us for the present and for the future, not giving them the feeling of abandonment and loneliness, of living without need of anyone. It is necessary to view old age not only as a time of difficulty and hardship, but as a lifeline with its pleasant parts. The concept of active aging aims for elderly individuals to participate in public activities, even in the event of any disability situation. To do that, it is necessary to open the way for the elderly to use the potential they have, to achieve adequate protection, security and care support. Let us not forget that aging is more physical and mental than the number of years that have occurred. Even at 45 years old, a man may be old, and even at seventy-five years old, he may remain young. Every old man is a separate individual with his own past. Their lives are a well-respected novel, and they themselves are the heroes of that novel. And in the present chapter of their lives, they want to maintain as much freedom as possible, to live without being addicted. However, changes in the body along with aging cause difficulties in adapting to environmental conditions. Because of bodily constraints, accidents in houses increase the risk of falling, injuries and injuries related to them increase. For example, over the age of sixty-five, one out of every 3 elderly falls and may suffer significant injuries. These are easily preventable elements. Turkey is also expected to have an important elderly population in the coming period. Rehab services are important in order to address increased chronic diseases and bodily constraints. Old rehabilitation is a treatment that will be conducted under the leadership of a rehabilitation doctor, along with a physical therapist, occupational therapist, speech therapist, nurse, social worker, nutritionist. As the population grows older, our health policies also show parallel changes to this change. During the time of our governments, there were revolutionary innovations in wages for the elderly, nursing homes, health care. In just ten years, an increase of over 100 per cent has been made. We've created significant increases in direct welfare. Last weekend, I visited the Kütahya Nursing House, one of the most beautiful nursing homes in our country recently. I was proud to go to our home, which is bright and bright, with private rehab beds, the physical therapy unit, and the smiling staff, designed to be a single person, a double personality, and a family room. The smiling eyes of our hundred and six-year-old Aunt Ayþe Tekin, whom I had a conversation with, mean a lot to us. All we did was take responsibility for being a social government. However, the work of our state is not enough to solve the problems of our elderly, it is necessary to assume social responsibility for the solution. In this regard, as a citizen, we must reach out to the elderly; as a society, we must heal their material, spiritual wounds. I will put an end to the words of the great Ataturk, who said: "A nation's attitude toward older citizens is the most important quality of the nation's power of life. A nation who did not feel grateful for those who worked hard in the past when it was very powerful has no right to look to the future with confidence. With these feelings, I wish all of our elders a happy and healthy day, where the joys of life never fade away, with gratitude and gratitude.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you, Mr. Cantaloupe. Mr. Ayday, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0010par0070	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, we visited Osmaniye Prison on Tuesday as a human rights delegation and CHP delegation. There are 1,222 people left in this prison for 651 people. During a face-to-face meeting with the prisoners, they told us that the requirement to issue numbers in military order has been applied, that every prisoner has been searched in prison naked, that the right to talk, which has been a legal right for a long time, has been violated and has almost never been implemented, and there is a general feeling of pressure and threat on them. In our meeting with prison administrators, these were considered covered by a briefing -- by showing us their legal basis. We've been informed that there's been a great deal of pressure on judicial prisoners, and there's been a hunger strike for 27 days. The problems there are both...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0009par0073	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0011par0075	Thank you, Mr. President. On the occasion of the celebration of the Nevruz, I curse the provocation, destruction, and murder of political factions. To use democracy against democracy is a divisive and destructive strategy. Turkey faces a treacherous plan without borders on abuse. A festival like Nevruz is used as a means of rebellion against the state. This year, the Turkish nation is almost feasting on the fact that we have survived the Nevruz without incident. What kind of holiday is this? Their goal is to divide evil centers, innocent and reasonable demands, using them to cover their treacherous thoughts. The aim of the separatists is not education, identity or democratic Turkey in the main language; they want a divided Turkey, they're trying to create a state, they're trying to create a nation within the state, we're not going to let that happen. That's the truth, and the rest is the story. I invite everyone, especially the government, to come to their senses, to pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0012par0079	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0013par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Every year in our country is celebrated as the March 18th to 24th Week of Respect for the Elders. Old age is a very special time in life, which means different things to each person. Our elders are our most valuable assets, who bridged yesterday and today, allowing us to carry our culture and values back to tomorrow. Age requires dignity. It's also a debt of gratitude. An elderly individual must be integrated into society, more active, bound to life. It is a priority for all of us to make life easier for the elderly who prepare us for the present and for the future and to provide life without need of anyone. With these feelings and thoughts, I celebrate the week of our elders, kiss them all by the hand.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0014par0084	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. When the first AKP government was established in 2002, the GAP irrigation rate was 11 per cent, while at the end of the ten-year period, it was about 17 per cent. So the annual fulfillment rate in the ten-year AKP's rule is 7/1,000. If we go at this rate, are the GAP irrigations going to end in 100 and 38 years if we say it from a simple mathematical standpoint? Why was this delay in GAP irrigation in the ten-year period? Do you think a delay at this level is normal? In 2003, the Prime Minister announced that the GAP would be finished in 2005, while in 2005 it would be finished in 2010. In this case, what is the revised new date of the GAP? Will the Gap really be finished in this date? In 2011, how much of the public fixed investment was planned to be assigned to the GAP, and how much of it was carried out? As the AKP government declared in 2006, it needs 13 billion dollars to finish the GAPP...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0016par0090	Mr. Özdağ...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0017par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. The final week, which began Monday March, is celebrated as Library Week in our country. The activities are organised by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the General Directorate of Librarians and Turkish Librarian Association of Librarians. This year, information pluralises the community. The 48th Library Week, which will be held with its main theme, will be celebrated between March 26th and April 2012. I wish that Librarian Week would create a positive association with the library in public; that social perception of books, libraries, and reading culture, reading habits; that we would be conscious as a nation on the way to becoming a knowledge society, and that important improvements in world librarianism would be shared. I hereby salute the Library Week of Librarians, Librarians, and our nation's Librarian Week, with the wishes of every house, every village, to have a library. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0018par0096	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0019par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the data from Turkey's Statistical Institution has been released: the number of lawmakers has dropped from five to four, so the population of our Elazig province is rapidly diminishing. One of the four counties is Elazıg, the other is Van. As you know, there have been seven earthquakes in Van, and there has been a psychological earthquake in Elazig. Migration rate is high, unemployment is high, factories are closing down, services are not affordable enough. Hundreds of thousands of people are campaigning for signatures to draw attention to these problems. Elazığ, who has given so much support to the AKP, looks forward to the days when the government will take care of its own problems. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0020par0101	Mr. Eyeborn.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0021par0103	Thank you, Mayor. About 36 per cent of the six water basins crossing the border share in Turkey. Our country is a resource in five percent of these basins. Given the changing climate conditions, bilateral agreements are essential; it is announced to the government. Furthermore, if necessary measures are not taken, the more severe droughts in the future in our country and in the surrounding countries are a serious threat to our national security should be settled on it. Water becoming a strategic natural resource needs to be considered an integral part of national security strategies. I wonder if the government is aware of the issue.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0022par0106	Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0023par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. March 21st, Nevruz, the harbinger of spring. Of course, the cemres fell into the air, then into the water, then into the ground. Our farmers now sow their fields, corn, cotton, watermelon, but they're not sure what the next crop will bring in in the cost of diesel and fertilizer. Today it's still sold at $1.3 lira cotton, it's past the price of cotton cotton, the mazota's already up every day. May our farmers win this spring with what they sow and what they reap, and may they live a prosperous life, I wish this day to be blessed.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0022par0110	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0024par0112	Thank you. Mr. President, I salute all of our elders first because of Senior Week, but it has upset our entire nation yesterday's statement to the families of martyrs about their second job employment at the Justice and Development Party group meeting that upsets them, and unfortunately, the people who were on the other side in the fight they lost their own children were taken as martyrs and to support those who served the PKK terror organization. I hereby invite all sensitive lawmakers to work on this issue and to eliminate that distinction, with respect.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0025par0115	Mr. Gürkan...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. The last two police officers were from Adana, our earlier injured and deceased brother. One of the last six casualties is from Adana Aladağ County again. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs. Nevruz, the harbinger of spring. Events like this in the Nevruz won't allow anyone to achieve anything. The Republic of Turkey, its people, is a great and powerful country and state. That's why I condemn those who do such acts. I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, for patience and condolences on their families. I'm also celebrating senior week, senior week. Not to sound like we're responding here, but I'm a longtime employee of law enforcement proposals that our Prime Minister explained yesterday about his fellow martyrs. So there's nothing here for society to react to. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0027par0123	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Hormone-based, additive, agricultural medicine, chemical fertilizer and antibiotics contain residue, trickling, genetically modified food production, and for researching the effects of such products in human health in the short and long term, information and awareness of producers and consumers, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. Food is considered to be a threat to our safety, hormones, additives, agricultural medicines, chemical fertilizers, antibiotics, rigged food production, genetically modified organisms. It is vital to human health that plants and meats, which are indispensable to human life, are produced in proper conditions. The issue of food safety is very strict in the developed countries, and every precaution is taken to protect the health of consumers. Advanced countries are banned from the production of agriculture using hormones, pesticides, chemical fertilizer to the production of organic agriculture, agriculture and food industry. The demand for organic products is increasing day by day. Many countries where we export foods do strict control over the foods we export, and do not allow improper foods to enter their countries. The claims that the products, which the Germans or Russians find harmful to their health or not bring into their country, have been offered to consume on the domestic market -- that is, the health of our own citizen -- are seriously on the agenda. The lack of effective inspections of food safety agencies poses a lack of confidence in the food that our citizens rightly consume. According to one study, our children face more than 500 percent of toxins that our elders have never encountered, and they suffer from various effects. Hormones are used to produce more products in agriculture and livestock in less time, to make the products look more lively and beautiful, and to buy products outside the season. Hormone-based plants and meats are suspected to cause the body's hormone balance when consumed permanently, causing the immune system to weaken, early adolescence, and even cancer. Excessive, premature and inappropriate use of pesticides also harms the soil, water, and other living creatures as well as human health. In the event that the use of antibiotics in winged and large animals does not end some time before it is cut, it passes directly to people, as in agricultural medicines given to plants. Unconsciously used chemical fertilizers, besides the harmful effects of human health, are polluting our land and water, losing our property and regime. Another problem that threatens human health is the problem of genetically modified organisms (GMO). In order to get more yields, the genetics of seeds are genetically engineered to grow unnatural products. Again, rigged foods such as cheese, non-milk sausages, dyed olives, and spices, which are produced in illegal factories called sub-stairs, are a matter of great risk to our public health and need to be focused on. Addicts used in the food industry are also known to cause health problems. Farmers who don't know enough about pesticides, hormones, antibiotics, and chemical fertilizers use these chemicals, while unconsciously harming human health, on the other hand, they increase the cost of input. Meanwhile, the Russian Federation recently returned our exports due to the presence of chemicals and hormonal substances, while stopping exports of aged vegetables from Turkey. Unfortunately, however, there has been no information as to the outcome of these returns, but it has been debated in public during the days when the products were driven into the domestic market and consumed by our own citizens. Concerning and authorities have not informed the public whether these products are harmful to human health, whether they are put on the domestic market, whether they are destroyed or not. Even this case is a matter of investigation on its own. Many of the problems we face with food safety are due to the lack of information of our producers, the lack of adequate consulting services from the Ministry and institutions concerned, particularly agriculture and health, and for other reasons than that. However, while growing natural products in a separate area for the consumption of his family, on the other hand, the presence of those who are consciously selling products is one of the things that need to be ethically examined by hormones, pesticides, chemical fertilizers, or by producing rigged food. Building and working a research commission on the subject will attract public attention, and it will be useful from the very first moment to contribute to the awareness of our consumers and producers. For reasons revealed, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105 for researching the effects of hormone, additives, pesticides, chemical fertilizer and antibiotics, rigged, genetically modified food production, and such products in short and long term human health, the information and awareness of producers and consumers. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Erzurum]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 15) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of our country's most important health problems is to determine the extent of the cancer disease, research centers, medical equipment, the need for specialists and to determine the number of patients, and to provide the necessary measures to address all defects, including diagnostics and treatments, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105 of the Integration. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. There is no clear information about cancer disease in our country, which has become the most important health problem in the world and in our country, and about the number of patients in our country who have been caught every year by about 100,000 people. The number of patients who have cancer is increasing day by day, while hospitals are filling up. Moreover, in this very high cost of treatment, the problem is not only with the patient but also with all family members. In 1982, the 57th edition of the Public Health Code No. 1593 in Turkey. The number of real cancers is unknown in our country, although it has been reported as "a list of mandatory diseases." In the organisation of cancer treatment services in our country, the most striking and important thing is the numerical inability of medical oncologists and hematologists in our country. Since a poor number of medical oncologists and hematologists will not be able to take on the treatment and monitoring of cancer patients, whose number is now 350,000, it is imperative that treatment services be organised as much as possible in other areas of expertise. Even at the Ataturk Breast Disease Hospital in central Ankara, where more than 1,000 lung cancers are diagnosed a year alone, should not be forgotten that there are oncologists from time to time. Another important thing to remember is that five or six years before breast disease specialists were able to pursue and treat lung cancer, these patients were scheduled for months later at oncology clinics. That's why breast disease specialists take over. More than 50,000 leukemia patients are being followed in our country, with over 15,000 new lymphomas per year and over 10,000 new leukemias detected. The apparent increase in life expectancy in leukemia and lymphoma over the past 10 years has caused the number of patients under surveillance to endure. Health Ministry officials have made statements that by 2020, 54 new cancer research centres are needed in our country. In order to meet the need for specialists, co-works with universities and medical schools must be made and resolutions. Early diagnostics should be directed towards cancer-fighting policy and the establishment of population-based cancer registration systems and the collection of healthier data. In medical oncology, experts take years to grow. Even in Greece, with 11 million inhabitants, there are more medical oncologists than we are. We're really understaffed on this. Moreover, it is not enough to raise only oncologists. If you don't have an expert in pathology, it doesn't matter if you have enough oncologists. Therefore, we need to focus on the development of radiologists, bloggers, and pathologists, and the lack of human resources. A medical oncologist and a hematologist are now only able to begin at the age of 40. It is evident that new arrangements are needed for the upbringing of these experts. To address all these problems at the national level, there is a great need for a rule-making and auditing board to be formed. The creation of such a national cancer institution, whose name and limits of authority will be established in studies, is of great importance in our country, as well as in terms of the discipline of the cancer problem, as well as the fact that expensive treatments are not a burden on the patient and the family, using the most advanced methods in our patients' diagnosis and treatments. And that's why we have one of the most important health problems in our country -- the research centers, the medical equipment, the need to determine the number of patients and the number of patients, and the measures needed to solve all the deficiencies, including diagnostics and treatments -- is 98 and 104 and 105 of our Constitution. We propose and supply the establishment of a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 17) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kastamon]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the opening of Parliamental Research in accordance with the provisions of Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to determine problems in the area of Bor minerals and refined boron production and solutions. Turkey is the largest country in the world in terms of boron and boron resources. Borial minerals are minerals that contain various proportions of boron oxide (B203) in their system, and boron minerals, commonly found in our country, are thyncal, colemanite, and ulexide. Turkey is ranked first in the world's total boron reserve ranking with a 72% share. The entire world's colemanite reserve is located in our country. Turkey's share of the world's boron market is extremely low. Augmenting our country's share of the world's boron market is possible with the development of refined products. Boron reserve formations are called boron minerals, enriched borats, borats, refined products, boron compounds and boron products. In industrial production, raw boron and refined boron products have an inhospitable field of use in this sense which transfers their superior properties into production and product. Bor is used in auto glass, laboratory glass, airplane windows, high-tech windows, borcas, pyrex, optical glass, Borosilicate glass (camera and lens glass). Skiing, ski shoes, tennis rods, fish fishing rods, string, golf clubs, arrow, bows, various blows in protectives, both in mobile and computer networks, fiber optic cables, LCD screens and microchip production, and in the long-lasting high-powered lithium-ion batteries, the computer disk drives are used in computer drives, with the right current-engines and electric houseware, in portable power tools, in space vehicles, satellites, helicopters, helicopters, gliders, and large-lithium-ion batteries, and high-powered devices in cars. Cancer treatment, particularly in treatment of brain cancers, ostreposis and menopause treatments, allergic diseases, psychiatry, bone development, and arthritis can be used to use borons in menopause treatments. In magnetic resonance imaging devices, glue, antidepressants, antidepressants, antifreeze, brake fluids, starch (kola), coolant chemicals, fire extinguisher granule and liquid chemicals, retardants, corrosion inhibitors, ink, paint, paint, pesticides, planticides, biological development and control chemicals, forest food preservers, cake and polish, matches, synthetic high-performing engine oils, gassers, cleaners, water cleaners, spray cleaners, chemical caps, chemical caps, shampoos, soaps, soaps, soaps, soaps. It's also used in fertilizer production in the agricultural sector. It also has extensive use in ceramics and emaya industries. In atomic reactors, boron steel, boron carbides and titan boron alloys are used to control atomic reactors in cooling pools and shut the reactor down with alarm. Nuclear waste is stored in glass wrappers produced from the Boron mine (colemanite) and made into glass logs. Research on energy is in the process of creating a wide range of energy use from Bor and refined boron products. Boron compounds are spent in the electrolyte-plated industry, producing electrolytes. Boric acid is used in nickel plating, fluoborates and fluoboric acids as electrolytes for metals such as tin, lead, copper, nickel. In textile industry, in setting the viscosity of starched glues, in the solvents of kikein glues, the fluid that helps to isolate proteins, pipe and wire extracts, is used as a guarantor in dermatology. Mercury, lead, and silver are also used to wash heavy metals from the waters. Boats, yachts, boats, and various sea transports, and construction, are used in corrosive, sander, polishing products, various metal alloys, plastics, paper and cardboard production, jewelry, lead treatment, lead enhancers, oil-based octane enhancers, refining, refining, food industry, about 250 productions, in thousands of products, boron and refinining. Technological developments are creating new uses every day, while consumption in existing use areas is increasing. The world's boron market is an oligopol market. In this sense, the boron species, which are commercially important in the boron market, hold the total production and sale of several companies, including the Eti Holdings. The lack of Turkish borons has a power and importance that will cause instability in Europe and the world's boron markets. Therefore, European grinders and final users and multinational companies that define the world's boron market have been thinking of being able to influence this entity throughout history. The desire for a monopoly to fully consolidate the sovereignty of a multinational company in the boron market, including meat, has been seen to benefit from the opening of Parliamentary Research under the recent privatisation wind under the name of privatisation in our country, and to determine what must be done to ensure that the leadership of our country's boron material should be carried out in the refined area of boron production, as well as in Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Inconceived]] 10) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 17) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kastamon]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Point: 193 22.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Thursday 22,03,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 12,03,2012, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was recommended to present the Parliamentary Research Council (301 rank), which was given "in order to investigate the increasing violence and suicide cases due to the economic crisis and the shortage of livelihoods in our community," before other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. The first word in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal belongs to Mr. Haydar Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0028par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in recent years in our country, especially since 2002, the numbers on the street say that unemployment rates have fallen according to TÜİK. With the great media power and support of the ruling AKP (AKP) for ten years on its own, a continuous pink picture is drawn in the economy, and much makeup is asked to be believed by the entire nation. Growth, based on imports during the AKP period and creating record external deficits, was not felt in the home of a citizen. Despite all AKP's economic success stories, 87.5 per cent of the population in Turkey, 62.4 million people can't take a week vacation away from home; 81.7 per cent of them, 58.3 million people can't change their desk, their chair, and their belongings; 63.3 per cent, 45.2 million people can't eat a bowl of meat, chicken and fish in two days. It is possible to replicate such examples. In your ten-year period, again, to illustrate where you've brought the import power of a citizen in Turkey -- that's $1.81 in 2012 -- compared to the age of innovation and mastery: 1 kilogram of meat is $5.5 euros in 2012; 1 kilogram of bread is $1.31 in 2002; 2.31 in 2012; 1 liter of gasoline is $1.61 in 2012; $1.1.1.1.2 dollars in 2012; the state's debt is $518 billion in 2012 when it is $2242 billion in 2012; the heat in Turkey is 6 billion in 2002; the number of people who owe $1.6 billion in 2012; 1 million in 2012, 1 million in 2012, 1 million in 2012. I suppose those numbers will make you laugh, too. As you can see from the examples I've just given, campaigns by the AKP government for the perception of the poor, pooring people of our country are being created to suggest that Turkey is a growing, carefree country, but Turkey's economy...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0029par0326	Remember 80 years ago, Mr. Haydar.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0028par0327	You had grandfathers before 80, like the Justice Party, the Democratic Party. ...it has been statistically determined by the state's official institutions that this is not the case when it is examined. In Turkey, they grow virtually on one side based on consumption, while on the other, people are driven to poverty.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0029par0329	What happened in the pre-80s CHP administration?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0028par0330	The 16th, 17th largest economy of the world, which you brag about and convince the community of, is not an economic fraud based entirely on the population and does not contribute financially to our human beings. I've given you examples before, and you can see Somalia in the center of my town, which is the centre of my city, the city of Schepeli, which is the industry, the engine of Turkey. In Ramadan, we helped 4,500 households, which were boasted by the AKP province's organisation. By logic, you can easily see how poor and poor people live even in the most wealthy province of Turkey. You can see that poverty and the hardship created in the economy have also increased at a record level because of the fact that it was not paid in time during the AKP period. The protest bond, which was 498 thousand in 2002, rose to 1 million in 2011. Another economic problem that exploded during the AKP period was the debt of citizens. In 2002, the debt of a citizen with $6.5 billion was 223.4 billion at the end of 2011. During your time, the number of people who couldn't pay the banks, the number of people on the black list, was 2,238,000. However, not only banks are paid debts, but the tradesman and farmer are unable to pay taxes to the state. The application you've done under the name tax configuration five times in the last ten years has clearly shown this. Another example is that indirect taxes increase so much that you are unable to collect taxes. I've never heard you talk about the world's indirect tax record, and the fact that you have the country's indirect tax record. As I haven't heard from you, I haven't heard from your Prime Minister, who designed all the speeches on spite, discrimination and separatism, and whose speech is not true.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0030par0335	We didn't hear it from you either.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0028par0336	You hear it, you hear it. In the past decade, unemployment, poverty, and living shortages have increased psychological problems for our citizens, resulting in a huge increase in violence and suicide cases, which we can see in the abundance of media reports. The highest increase is in reports of violence against women at a rate of 38 per cent. According to the 2011 news report, there were 24,932 thefts, 22,974 trafficking, 18,960 murders, 10,110 suicides, 3,728 injuries in the newspapers in 2011. Most of Turkey's population has lost its mental health due to its economic and social crisis. At the beginning of such examples, Emine Akchay, whose husband has been unemployed for a year in Adana. I ask for God's mercy. The mother who tried to warm her children with a dryer because she couldn't find the wood to warm her children out of financial improprieties, she committed suicide by not being able to stand it any longer. Again, Mehmet Nurullah Aktaş, 33, who had two children in Midyat district of Mardin province who couldn't bring bread to his house in the evening, hung himself on the roof of the house. At the age of twenty-five, the mother of the four children who failed to meet her children's breakfast request in Diyarbakır province ended her life with a home rifle found in her home. Ceyda Cansu Denker, a graduate of the Physics Department at Selçuk University, who had been unemployed for two years in Antalya, died from a balcony on the fourth floor in front of her family at the age of twenty-five. The best offer received by Ceyda Cansu, who had applied to many places for teaching, was 250 euros a month in a private school. The Republican People's Party has identified the situation our people were in before the election, realized that daily aid by the AKP government would not solve the situation, and brought the Family Insurance Project to Turkey's agenda by developing it. Family Insurance is a project that Turkey needs today, and we are prepared to provide any support for the government in this regard. It doesn't matter who did this to us, it's not the ship that matters to us that our children own the ship, but that our children don't go to bed hungry at night. What matters to us is the cry of a mother who couldn't find the wood to warm her child, the coal, the breakfast, the bread that she couldn't bring home because she couldn't find a job. Our priority is not to build an acorn channel in Istanbul... but yes, I call it the palamut channel. You're going to build a canal, they're going to catch an acorn, so I've developed a project during the election, we're going to tie the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, and we're going to hunt the anchovy in the Mediterranean.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0031par0347	You have no idea.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0028par0348	Our priority is not to build an acorn channel based on your channel, but to improve human living conditions. During the election, you asked us, "Where will you find the resources?" It's easy to find resources; it's easy to find resources by selling everything you have. By lending the country 200 billion, 180 billion dollars in debt, you'll get $580 billion, and you'll get the businessmen a runt, and you'll get your kids a boat, but our priority is not to buy a boat, but to get starving children to bring bread home to their fathers who can't bring bread. We'll do it, and we'll keep saying it. In conclusion, it is important to say: As I have just explained, it is vital for our country's future to investigate the causes of the problems, violence and suicides, to take the necessary measures to prevent these events, and to establish and implement the right policies on the matter. I think all of our political parties will support this parliamentary research proposal. If you think about our sister Cansu in Antalya, the father who committed suicide in Diyarbakir, and you think it was because of hunger, poverty, poverty, and poverty, I think you'll support this research proposal, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0032par0352	Thank you, Mr. Akar. The first word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Abdulkerim Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0356	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. As a result of the economic crises of the Republican People's Party in Turkey since 2002, I have made a series of promises against it, especially at the point of the opening of parliamentary research, such as poverty, unemployment, robbery, extortion. At the beginning of my words, especially compared to 2002, when we compared our friends at the Republican People's Party, they were always angry. In my previous talks, especially at the point of economic development 2002 and before, when we present the figures with all statistical data, why do you say 2002? So, today, the fact that this 2002 figure has been chosen specifically brings to mind a number of views that sociologists have done in society over the years. Sociologists consider society to be rich, poor, and middle class, and say that the rich have no doubts about the future, so that the reaction will not be much of a change in social response, but that there will be no problem at the border when the poor know their limit, when they know their limit. Why? This middle class sometimes takes a step forward in order to become rich, sometimes its poverty or values feel some conscientious obligation and step backwards. In this example, I would like to say that we see people here, especially in the middle class, come out with a new set of personalities. So I want to be rich. One step forward with the thought of being rich, and then a new class of personalities emerges as the values here go back one step at a time. In fact, when we look at the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY governments, I want to say that in ten years, in particular, the number of mid-level citizens has decreased. Now, since we've brought up the 2002 figures, starting in 2002, I'd like to talk to you about some of the data in this country's economy, if you don't mind. See, there were $1 billion coming from the IMF in this country, and when we considered it a country economy that wasn't in the global financial crisis of this country, with this $1 billion coming in, our financial markets were kind of booming in the past. But for today, in 2011, $1 billion, $740 million, the citizens of this country spent money on their mobile phone.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0034par0361	Success!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0362	So look at where this country's economy is coming from. When we put aside $1 billion from the IMF, this country's economy is booming, let's evaluate the location of the country's economy at $1 billion, $740 million on the other hand. In fact, we would like to support this research proposal, of course, but we would like to emphasize that the elements such as robbery, corruption in society, unemployment are not alone with economic standards, such negatives are not alone with economic arguments. You know, such incidents arise, especially with changing values in society, especially with the way society responds sociologically and psychologically. But when we look at the response to these sociological and psychological reactions, I particularly want to talk about the work we've done at the health centre. For the first time in our power, housing is being produced for poor people with no income. Where we came from ten years ago at the health centre of our power, our friends and we tell our nation from this platform every time. Compared to the 2002 figures before, my friends at the Republican People's Party are uncomfortable. I want to make it clear to them that I will pay particular attention to this.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0035par0366	We don't mind 2002.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0367	So now we're comparing the AK PARTI powers to the numbers, not the 2002 period. We try to keep our own record in 2005, 2006, 2007. Now, I'm going to tell you about two statistical figures. I'd like to give them a number at the point they want to open the Capitol investigation, a point or two at the point of point of point of point of point. Under $2.15 a day per person, which is 3.04 in 2002. That's 0.21 in 2010, my friends. Look, it's under $2.15 a day per person. What is this? I'm talking about poverty rates based on poverty limits. Under $4.3 per day, 30 per cent in 2002, 3.66 per cent in 2010.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0035par0369	Give me my number.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0036par0370	How much is poverty?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0371	When we talk about numbers here, the statistical data of this country was kept by the statistical institutions and state institutions of this country before 2002. So I find it difficult to understand why there is distrust of the numbers held by the state, held by the Turkish Statistical Agency.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0037par0372	He's running for office from your party. How can we trust him?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0373	Because we got these numbers from the State Statistical Agency before 2002.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0038par0374	Here, here.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0375	That's where we get the same numbers now. We won't be disturbed here. I, at the point of the research motion here, came before you to hear and take notes from my friends at the Republican People's Party, who expressed their views at the point of parliamentary research. So if you'll excuse me, I'll continue my numbers.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0038par0377	Here it is, I'll give it all to you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0378	Starting in 2006, we started the 1 full minimum wage for the person who takes care of every disabled person in the house.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0038par0379	Bravo!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0380	So far, we've paid the families of 284.595 disabled citizens.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0038par0381	Name the number of college unemployed.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0382	We've signed revolutionary services in 112 emergency rooms. In 2002, we increased the number of emergency personnel at 4,560 to 22,000 in 2011. We have increased the number of ambulances 617 to 2,547, while the number of emergency stations at 481 to 1,500. We have launched the largest rural development in the history of the Republic with Project KOYDES. In six years, we invested $600 per person using a total of $7.3 billion. We pay the wages of those who are more than 70 percent disabled and those of our citizens over the age of eighty-five years of age who are sixty-five months old in their homes. In addition, we've cleared debts imposed on 81 thousand disabled and elderly citizens. I also want to thank our authority for giving us the opportunity to tell us about the economic achievements of the AK PARTI authorities, especially in the parliamentary research point, given by the Republican People's Party. Our citizens are actually listening and taking notes right now. 2002, given the date, it's obvious there's already a political approach there. The heart would love it if we could support this congressional investigation. Every minute under the roof of Congress, every second is the minute and second of this nation, this nation, this country. For him, we say that the work of the House is important. In this sense, at the point of the open parliamentary investigation, I would like to make it very clear that we will not be able to participate at the point of this parliamentary investigation.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0039par0387	There's no number that's a lie.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0033par0388	And I'd like to point out that we're going to vote against it. Once again, I salute the High Council and our beloved nation with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0040par0391	Thank you, Mr. Sky. In favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal, Mr. Ruzar Demirel, MP of Eskişehir. Here you are, Mr. Ironel.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0041par0395	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. One of the main issues of the country, I think, is the economic problems and the suicide attempts that lead to the ultimate loss of lives of our people, and the fact that this is happening, unfortunately, the Assembly General Assembly is irrelevant again. Yesterday, at the same time, you know, it was World Poetry Day, so I'd like to read a verse first to better understand some of the talks: Her desire, her goal, her path is a lie That's what Veysel in love says. We can interpret some statistics however we want, but Turkey currently has 9 million 680,000 disabled. As a physician, a disabled child, and as a mother, I strongly condemn a government that has not even reached 1 percent of our disabled ones to express it in the number of 200 or so. The social government is the responsibility that you need to give your entire nation, it's not something to brag about, it's your duty, gentlemen! Sir, we support the relevant motion to investigate as the National Party of Action because violence is inevitable in a country where individual savings is so low, the future anxiety is so heightened, the loneliness is so deep. However, if we want to deceive ourselves with numbers, there's a minister's expression today: "We have reset the population that has less than two dollars per day, and those around four dollars are 3.6 per cent, and I want to remind Mr. Secretary of State and the friends of the ruling party: there are very beautiful, pure words in Turkish culture -- even some of them -- there are no graves of the starving, but we can't use that word anymore, because we can't use that word anymore, let's say, because we can't use it, let's say, your power is the grave of the starving. You'll remember, first, a Korean gas died of hunger in Mugla, and then a baby Kubra died in Samsun, and then we had children who died in the hospital with a doctor's report saying, "Early feeding in the earthquake area." If this country now has the tomb of the starving, the most dramatic point of violence is that when people face death, there are no such events that depend on economic problems, there is nothing more to say than to deceive ourselves. We can't ignore anything by avoiding the reality of our country. Look, let me remind you of something else: In a rally area of 2006, there's a banner: I'm unemployed, I'm hungry, I'm for sale. You may not remember this, but you'll remember the saying: this isn't a cripple shop. If the president of a government party, the Prime Minister of our country, approaches this scream, what kind of economic problems we're going to have in this country, what kind of social government we're going to be if we're going to be. If a citizen is trying to explain himself to the Prime Minister while writing money from hunger, unemployment, then we don't understand our own citizens. If we go to other countries when we don't understand our own citizen and tell them that we've done public diplomacy and understood them, then we don't clean the inside of our window first. Of course, it's not limited to that, for example, competition programs, many, you know, almost every channel. What will you do with the bonus you've won? I'm going to pay my credit card payments. I'm going to be bankrupt because of the credit card debts, I'm going to pay for my shop. I think these words are not foreign to all of us. I think we can all hear them every moment when we turn on the TV, but there are more important things: the lady who died last week in Adana Seyhan, the woman who died by suicide in our country, this woman who died, I want Mr Ali Babacan to answer: since we have a population under two dollars a day under two dollars a day -- if we have a population of people in our country -- if we're not familiar with that amount of people -- if we're 4 dollars a year -- if we're all of people -- in the same category, what category are passing into that category? Would this lady want to hang herself in the next room with two kids in the next room, with a dryer in their hands, cold, with money that your unemployed father couldn't send? There's no need to be a mother to understand this; it's enough to be human, to have a conscience, only to have a conscience. Those who were burned to death in the tent in Esenyurt... these are no business accidents. In fact, smoking is a passive suicide, and in unhealthy conditions, it's passive suicide at any time. If people who stay in an unbreathable tent -- 50 people who stay all night -- are at the death line in a fire one day, in a disaster one day, at any time, that's a kind of suicide by human hand. So why were these people in that tent, under unhealthy circumstances? The unemployment, the economic problems, the anxiety of the future, and the rush of a slice of bread to send home. We close our eyes to all this, and we are the world's 16th and 17th largest economy. It's in the papers every day, even today. I'm going to tell you about the newspaper pages and a name you know: Mut, former district president of the Justice and Development Party, committed suicide today due to a lack of income, sir, if you don't know anything about it, you've learned. He died two days ago after a suicide attempt he couldn't pay off, and today after an attempt at the end. That's why your own party member died. I'm asking on behalf of my group why you don't support this motion, and I'm having a hard time understanding it. Because in this country, you see people's economic concerns almost every day, even under the violence of women, children, people they don't know. See statistics on integrity, not just health-related statistics. Also, these health-related statistics are things you can look at from any direction you want. For example, I think it's only in our health policy to brag about the number of people applying to the hospital. The person who comes to the hospital is already ill, not healthy. If it's health policy, it's to keep people healthy, so they don't get sick. Of course, if you're not even questioning what our taxes are for swine flu, there's not much to say, but let only those who understand health speak, and those who know the meaning of the word health speak. Statistics can be moved any time you want. I can give you some very interesting statistics, but the fact is that everyone in this country is still questioning the money that goes to the vaccine when it's called swine flu. Don't you ever feel the need to question them? What health system could be that boasts about the patient who's applying to the hospital that we've infected, that we can't protect our people? So in a country where we can see in newspapers today that our future people are facing death, which is the most extreme point of increasing violence, as a result of their unhealthy lives for economic reasons, we are deeply involved as the National Party of Action. Yesterday, you know, it was the Festival of Nevruz, and now the festivals have been mixed with suffering in our country. We have many martyrs in the last days, I ask all God's mercy and patience for our nation, but I will finish my speech by saying a verse about the neurosis. By the collar of the blazing fire, He washed the mountain of copper, After I left Ergenekon, Nevruz is the holiday of Turk. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0042par0415	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Levent Tüzzel. Here you go, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0043par0418	Thank you. Mr. President, I've taken the oath that the Republican People's Party is against us, of course, in a manner of speaking, but there's nothing more natural, justified than asking the Republican People's Party to investigate parliamentary cases of violence, suicide and murder, especially from economic, social problems in our country, from the deepening of unemployment, poverty, income injustice, inequality. It's very appropriate and realistic to participate in this request. Dear lawmakers, yes, the most fundamental problem of our country, the most important problem, of course, especially the fact that unemployment and poverty have increased, especially in the last decade, and that it has led to an unhealthy society. This issue has been very strikingly put in place by valuable lawmakers who have just spoken, and our opposition AKP MP friend has given us some numbers again -- the increase of the number of ambulances -- to claim that problems in our country have been solved or left behind -- is to really reverse what happened. Ten years ago, when the AKP government came to power, they demanded that they be given very little time and that they would be fought by our people. He expressed that he would lift corruption, poverty and bans, that he would fight it, but not to overcome these problems, to solve them, that these problems grew more and more every day, and our country, as a whole, made our people a unhealthy society, such a society was created. It's very obvious. On the one hand, one looks at the landscape with a number of similar arrangements, such as VAT exemptions, legal regulations that will be discussed later. The view is that the workers, the workers, the disabled, the disabled, the people who want to work, the people who want social security against their poverty, the people who are close to power, the large monopolys, the distinctions to increase their wealth, the concessions, the incentives, the exemptions, but on the other, the greater rights to the rights of our nation, the greater rights to the people who want freedom, the greater rights to work, the greater social security for their poverty; the greater growth of the workers, the disabled, the unemployment; and the greater growth of their wealth; the greater resources; the greater resources of our nation's rights, the greater rights, the greater rights of our country; the United States. Dear lawmakers, you must ask the government what you have solved. In fact, in today's picture, unemployment, poverty, and in the face of this, sickness, healthlessness, suicides, killings -- the latest example was given just now -- that a young woman in Adana was depressed and killed because she was not in a position to take care of her child, because she was unemployed and hungry. These scenes aren't new, they're much more. Baby deaths, starving children, starving babies, isn't that the reality of this country? Isn't infant mortality at the top of the list in the European criteria? In the same way, work killings, 10,000 deaths in ten years, business accidents, but actually work killings. In the same way, it's the people who pay the highest tax rates in this country. So don't let these people go crazy, let these people be provoked against each other, let these people not attack each other, let not married families divorce in their homes, or what more, this capitalist society, which has led them to this, this injustice of income, this society, the power at the wheel of this capitalist society. Unfortunately, the excess of working hours is our working class that has to work for the lowest wages in these extra hours. In the same way, yachts, boats, ships don't pay the MTV to the mazota, but again, farmers, farmers, workers in agriculture, pay the maximum amount of OTV, and we offer the law to remove it. Dear lawmakers, indeed our country has created many problems within its criteria, within its European standards, with the power of the AKP ruling, and has been the top of the list on many issues. The ones who died in accidents, the ones who died in traffic accidents, the same way, a country that has the most prisoners in the country with 130,000 prisoners, the most prisoners in prison, so it's kind of a sight where you can actually get your hands on them. We're listening on the news today, the republic has exceeded 600 lira, almost reached its minimum wage limit. So that's the point that comes in ten years, and the minister of power who says, "The crisis doesn't touch us, it doesn't affect us, it doesn't affect us, it doesn't affect the tangent, the crisis doesn't shake us." But the crisis shakes so deeply, and, of course, crisis opportunist bosses, the capital cut-offs, they throw it out on the street the first chance they get. Yes, we're holding a press conference here in the House, Hey Textile workers, 420 workers in Istanbul, 240 workers in Batman. Now the government appears, and I will solve unemployment with the National Employment Strategy. He says, "This is what I will do." But he forces the country's employee, his worker, to work without rules, without guarantee. Now, when people can't, of course, fight against this landscape, they're headed for individual solutions, individual solutions, or despair, in the face of an unorganized society reality. This matter must be thoroughly investigated by our House, and we must no longer watch public, social rights looted, destroyed. We've talked about not being a healthy society, about this government making the country unhealthy, and, yes, we've had the most painful view for a few days. The festivals of Nevroz were also given from here, and the messages of the Nevroz (; yes, March 21st) were a national holiday of the peoples of the Middle East, of the people of our country, of the oppressed Kurdish people. It has been celebrated in this country for years, but for the past few days, the view of war in the country, the national celebrations forbidden by the Home Secretary's direction, the fact that people are not even tolerated in all the spring colors, unfortunately, a citizen in Istanbul, the district manager of the Peace and Democracy Party, is losing his life. Likewise, a police officer is dying in Cizre. Who's to blame now in these sights? If called, the Home Secretary is the one who imposes the people's right to celebrate the holiday, which is the most basic human right, under his own conditions. This is a government policy that strongly imposes the policy of state and government on this issue, and the same policy shows us the truth of a society that is unhealthy and losing lives and property outside the country, not in the country. In Afghanistan, 12 soldiers are killed, and six special operatives are killed in the battle in Cudi, and the Prime Minister gives news of the good news. What's the good news? To expand the scope of martyrs, veterans, to increase their rights and what they'll be paid. There's no good news here, precious lawmakers, here in our country, more war results know that people will die, they'll be crippled, they'll be martyrs. Sadly, the number of martyrs and veterans will increase, not only in our country, but in their eagerness to intervene in the Middle East. Not only are they in uniform, but they want to be turned into a fireball, as if they want to be taken into the scope of the entire country, of all citizens, of all citizens, of a witch's cauldron, of the country, of all people who have been damaged in the name of the fight against terrorism. Now, we've put aside economic, economic, economic, social policies, but the unity of our country, the unity of our country, the rigor of life together, as the prime minister can say while we're having this conversation, our war is going on in Cudi. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And then the news of this martyr's death comes. There's no good news here, precious MPs. As soon as this goes, our House must seize, bring peace, social rights. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0044par0431	Thank you, Mr. Corporate.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0045par0434	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0044par0435	There's a request for roll call before the group's proposal is voted, which I'm fulfilling. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Akar, Mr. Nazlıaka, Mr. Güyük, Mr. Aksınger, Mr. Acar, Mr. Yellow, Mr. Onur, Mr. Eryılmaz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Keskin, Mr. Canalioğlu, Mr. Yalcınkaya, Mr. Coach. Yeah, I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. We move to the agenda's "Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, who is ranked in the 1st ranking position of Justice and Development Party Chairs, will continue the discussion of Mr. Kamer Yün on the amendment of a Article of the Grand Assembly of Turkey and on the Constitutional Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Bill of Law on the Transformation of Areas Under the Disaster, which is ranked number two, where we left off from the Bill of Laws, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In third place, Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Bursa MP Mr. Hüseyin Şahin and 7 MPs will resume their talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report on the drafting of several Investments and Services in the Doing-Admission Model Frame. Commission? Here. Government? Here. In yesterday's merger, the third article of the proposal was accepted. Now, if you have any other clauses, I'll submit them to your votes after I've processed the motion. The following temporary clause has been added to the Law No. 4-3996: Article 11/A of this Law has been signed, but financing is implemented for construction-business model projects that have not yet been concluded. On behalf of the group, the first word on the matter belongs to Kütahya MP, Mr. Alim Izlu, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0046par0468	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge from my group on Article 4 of the Law Proposal 194 that we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, this clause has not been implemented before the date of execution, but it is also a matter of the adoption of projects that are intended to be implemented in this matter, and I would like to state that this is a proper change. However, I would also like to say that I agree with the general criticism of the law and the previous articles. On this occasion, I would like to share with you how much the province of Kütahya has benefited from investments so far in Turkey regarding projects that will be assessed under the law and which have a high financial need for financing. First, in response to a question I asked the minister yesterday, he said that last year there were a lot of investments in Kütahya (Kütahya) and their paths were opened. I thank him for his contribution, at least he's been opened. Mr. Minister, I now have a 2011 Report on Reach and Reach, which you distribute to lawmakers, which I will tell you a little bit more about, but before that, in the period of 2003-2011, when there were Justice and Development Party governments, according to the official data of the State Planning Agency, I would like to share with you a summary of the investment shares distributed according to the provinces and sectors. During this period, you have allocated a total of 64 billion 383 million and 48000 euros to the transport and telecommunications sector in 2003-2011, and invested 50 million and 280,000 euros to Kütahya. So, if we compare the population of Kütahya (Kütahya) and its share of all people when they are given equal distribution, you know better than we do that our Kütahya (Kütahya) has fallen from the population of Turkey to eight per cent in thousands these days, but on average in this period it has to get a percentage of 9 per thousand, I'm not saying that we should get a share now -- and I'm just saying for the transport and communication sector -- you've given 11/1 to Kütahya; you know better than we do, but I'm not saying that we should get 11/11 of our other provinces. Now, I'd like to share with you that Kütahya, especially about high-speed trains and highway projects, has been forgotten. Dear MPs, there are highways targeted for 2023 on page 39 of the brochure, which includes the projects of our Ministry of Transport. In these highways, the area of Ankara-Izmir and Antalya-Istanbul highway is supposed to be Kütahya, but unfortunately -- I'm showing it by growing -- Mr. Minister, members of parliament, has been forgotten in these projects. The high-speed train projects are in the same pamphlet and I've expanded them again, Antalya-Istanbul, although on the Ankara-Izmir line at the exact intersection of Kütahya, unfortunately it's forgotten again in these projects. Now, I'm especially celebrating our Afyon, baneman, Manisa and Eskişehir MPs, and I congratulate them, thank you, they've passed these fast train and highway projects through their own provinces to get their rights, and I'm celebrating my deputies in these districts of my party's deputies, but I don't understand that you're not hearing this because of the kindness and party discipline of my fellow lawmakers in the province of Kütahya, Mr. Minister, if they don't say so. I'm sure, in a moment, if they're in this hall, one of those MPs will come out, and they'll tell you that these projects have to go through Kütahya. Look, Mr. Minister, this intersection is il Kütahya. Now, if you give the highway to Afyon, to the footman, amenna, but if you give the fast train from there... isn't this the province of this country? Therefore, I believe in your sensibilities as a Kütahya MP. Antalya-Itanbul -- come on, the projects of the others are over -- I think the fast train project on the line must be passed through the Kütahya headquarters. I'd like to ask you once again, especially as a Kütahya MP. You can't forget about Kütahya. Kütahya lost 14 per cent of the vote during the last AKP ruling period and lost one MP, and this migration continues. Turkey's population is increasing by 10 per cent, while the province of Kütahya's population has decreased by 14 per cent, and if this migration cannot be stopped, one of the main reasons is that it has not been able to obtain its share of these projects. Minister, again in your time, I'm not going back nine years, until four years ago, the Pamukkale Express was removed from the route between Aydın-Istanbul. Again, four years ago, the Toros Express, which passed through Kütahya, was removed from Antwerp-Istanbul. Until two years ago, the regional express between Kütahya-Balayesir, which passed through Kütahya, was removed. The 9 September Express, which worked until two years ago, served in the direction on the Ankara-Izmir line, has been removed. The reasons for all of this, the road maintenance work on these routes, I agree, technically, but they weren't replaced by alternatives. Mr. Secretary, right now all of our citizens who benefit from trains in these areas are victims, not all of them can send their children to school, to work. I continue: By the end of February, İzmir Blue and Karasi Express, working between Ankara and İzmir, has been removed. Again, between Kütahya-Manisa, many of our people in this region were victimized because there was no work, no road connection, and no bus. The Melam Express, which worked between Iconia-Kütahya-Istanbul, was lifted again as of February. Now, what would the Kütahian do? So if he voted for you, if he supported this power, did he support you in order to be persecuted? Therefore, since you are the Minister of Transport, especially one of the most important problems of Kütahya, please remember Kütahya. At least take our rights from those provinces and return them to Kütahya for the next few years of your ministry. Cütahya, unfortunately, has failed in transport, but we also know that you do good work, that you do good projects. So in this context, I want to say that we need your support in solving the transportation problems of our province. In particular, the Eskişehir-Kütahya-Antalia road passes near the Kütahya Organised Industry, which must be passed through the centre. On these routes, I demand that many of the expeditions we use in mining, especially the boron, be replaced immediately, or replaced immediately by alternatives, or these studies, to be reassembled and replaced with the victims of our people. These projects, yes, may be very good on paper, but if they don't add anything to my knowledge, I want to say that they don't mean anything if they don't get their share of the law. Therefore, I would like to ask that at least one of my fellow members of the ruling parliamentary party to come here once and say that they have confirmed these words, all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0047par0488	Thank you, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0048par0489	Give me a question motion!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0046par0490	Mr. President, I'll give you 100 questions!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0047par0491	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Bulent Kuşoglu. Here you go, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0049par0494	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I have taken a pledge on the 4th Amendment to the Law and the Public Requirement Act on the Framework of Some Investments and Services, with the number of Added Values Act 194. My respects to all of you. The 4th article also aims to implement a treasure guarantee in Article 3 of Article 3 of the application agreement, but its financing efforts are not yet finalised, and it is being implemented by this provision. Dear friends, this is a very important matter. I'll start over for him. I just want to say that this offer has to come first as a bill. Because as I was saying earlier, it's a law on a number of laws, the Law on Add Value Taxes, the Doing-Admission Law, and the Ministry of Health, Law on Health 3354, and the Law on Public Relations. Therefore, it would have to come as a bill and have the opinion of relevant public institutions taken. Also, because of the very important laws, regulations that may be wronged, conflicting with one another, would have to be eliminated. It wasn't done, it didn't come this way, unfortunately, it came as an offer, or it would normally have to come as a bill. Now, when he didn't come in as a bill, when I came in as an offer, first of all, since it's about the Treasury Department, I would ask him if he were the Minister of Finance here. If the Minister of Finance, our Minister of Finance, makes an exception to this law added value tax, but this exception doesn't break the system, it's very useful. If he says so, I'd vote for it too -- believe it -- but we've never seen Mr. Minister in any way during his work, so we haven't heard his statement. This law is importantly about the treasure. The minister in charge of the treasure is also here -- in fact, Mr. Minister of Transport is an applied minister -- the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education, and the Minister of National Education, but this law is primarily about the Treasury and Treasury, and they should be sitting here. If our minister in charge of the treasure was sitting here, I'd ask him: 'Do you mind?' Therefore, because of the guarantees of treasure, there is no risk to the treasure. The treasure won't be a risk. The Treasury won't risk an increase in interest due to this risk. Therefore, since the treasure load is increasing, credit rating agencies will definitely not reduce Turkey's rating. I'd want to vote with you, but it's not like that. Indeed, with this, we are taking a significant risk by making these changes. We have to accept that. The 4th article -- which we've talked about -- is a general guarantee of the treasure for the do-and-run projects -- is being brought in for projects that have already been offered, but have not yet been signed. Here's the problem, my dear friends: Look, there's no such thing as a bid, so no one knows the future of this condition. The company close to him bids because these are huge contracts -- that's not the case. If it were known that this would happen, that there would be a treasure guarantee, there would be different offers, there would be lower offers, there would be less public bids. In a sense, it's a judgment that leads to unfair competition, which becomes a substance. At the same time, in a sense, it's like we're mixing the law with the contract. My dear friend, Mr. lionlan, of the bidders, says that this is not a treasure guarantee. There's no such thing. There's one thing: there's an institution called a guarantee. We know of such guarantees and treasury guarantees as covered guarantees, and unfortunately, that's the case here, along with those in question. So in a sense, it's dynamite, we don't know if it's going to explode, but that's why a 30-35 billion-dollar cargo could come to the treasure. In a sense, that's how the treasure takes over the private sector's debt, and the treasure doesn't take over the private sector's debt. But in terms of creditors, when you look at Turkey in terms of investors, this is, in a sense, taking over the private sector's debt. So it's a significant risk, risking Turkey's loan supply at a higher interest rate, and by credit rating agencies, it puts Turkey's rating in a position to lower. This will be the case. I'm not saying it will. But it may be because Turkey's public obligations will have increased by at least 30 or 35 billion dollars over the last few years. And there are a number of problems with the way the do-and-do models become so common, and there are problems with the way the do-and-do-do models become so common. Normally, infrastructure investments like this should be covered from public resources, from self-sources, but we're giving it to the private sector by doing business. They may be, of course, these kinds of models, but there's a problem with it being too common. You bring the private sector into a lot of business; you bring strangers, foreign investments into it, and they can do a lot of different routes. Besides, you can't measure your infrastructure investments, you can't control them, they can cost a lot of money. Look, I brought the 2012 Program. The 2012 Programme on Public-private cooperation practices mentions this very clearly: (Despite the fact that there is a long practice history and development of legislation, the lack of institutional capacity in public-special co-operation, the lack of qualified feasibility in the field of feasibility in the field of public cooperation, and the lack of proper monitoring and reporting of other public investments, as well as the continuing challenges of traditional methods and public-private co-operation alternatives, should not be fully done, both in investors and other institutions." he says. This is a paragraph I got from our 2012 Program. I really want to draw your attention to the fact that we're at risk in this field when there are these kinds of problems. There was a story in the papers earlier this week, and Turkish companies are running Greek privatisation tenders. Look, they're getting $50 billion, Greek privatisation tenders, Turkish firms, but we can't attract our own infrastructure investments, our own investors, they're investing in Greece, they're investing in other countries. I'd like to draw your particular attention to this matter. So we're making a mistake. It's just the result of globalization. We can't say here. I'd like to draw your attention to that in particular. In April and May, there will be a tender for 2 Bosphorus bridges and 7 junctions and 3rd Bosphorus bridge junctions. Thus, after the adoption of this law, there are very important tenders, which will cost at least six billion dollars. All of this needs to be done in harmony with the public's plans and programs. And the Public Contraction Act, I think, is going to be replaced by the change here for the 23rd time, over the last few years. That's one important thing I'd like to get your attention about. I also think there will be similar changes in the law on education, and we should consider them all together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0050par0508	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0051par0509	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0050par0510	You can speak as the Commission. You can all talk, you can do it, you can come out now, you can talk, so you have that right.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0051par0511	Yes, sir. It better be at the end of the item, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0050par0512	On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0514	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on law number 194. I salute you all. In fact, recently, if we briefly sum up the weather in Congress, the ruling party creates tension, creates violence, acts violently, brings in the Civil Charter, 4+4 brings in the education system, tightens the climate, tightens the parliament, tightens the commissions, and tries to pass the $500 billion economic laws. That's one of them. Public-special partnership, no contract, until 2023, 2023, 100 years. By what right, by what law? Do you have the capacity to plan 2023, regardless of which judicial audit, which financial audit, which budget? Do you realize you're planning on 2023? We are fiercely against them, my friends. You create neuroses, you bring economic laws. You're trying to pass $200 billion in cake under disaster law. You create neurosis, you remove VAT in the public-private sector, you bring government security. If you have that kind of heart, if you're in a decent, thoughtful, public-thinking approach, the steps you make with VAT are very simple, very simple. Let's lift it up in natural gas, lift it up in gas, lift it up in gas, lift it up in electricity, lift it up in cell phones, lift it up in communication, lift it up in health, raise it up in education, raise it up in the interests of the workers, of all our people, of 75 million, come, let's raise it up. Why are you only raising it to capital? Why do you only work for capital in this House? Not enough, of course. This tension, this violence, you have excluded the House, and you have excluded three opposition parties. You silenced three opposition parties, established ministries under the law, and you still haven't brought them here. You don't talk on commissions. You form attack divisions like the Roman battalions to build roads, and then you come and we'll solve the issues of the country politically. You say. Since the opening of this Parliament, tensions, violence, fighting, majority power, majority judgment, majority dictatorship. Now, look, look what we've been through. Mr. Ahmet Türk is a party leader and has been in this parliament since 70 years. Batman has been thrown into a gas bomb, breaking the bus window, coming down; your official police are punching an 80-year-old man, the wise politician of the Kurdish people, attacking a leader of peace, but your Prime Minister is coming in, looking at the group meeting -- he's coming down -- fueling the fire. E, for God's sake, I appeal to both power in parliament and to the main opposition and to the other party group: The punch that struck Ahmet Turk was struck on the roof of this assembly's forehead; it is the will of the nation that is bruised. The People's Assembly got punched, the People's Speaker ate it, the Prime Minister took it, President Gul ate it, and Mr. Brent Arinc ate it. What do you want to do? Mehmet Sincar was killed in the 90s in Batman. Are you going to follow the methods of the killings of Hezbollah, of the gangs, of the coupgers, of the Ergenekons? Is that what you want? Silence is an act of silence in the attack on Ahmet Turk. Not only the power, but the leaders of the two opposition parties shared the attack yesterday, silently contributing. Shame on you. As a courtesy, as a person, as a political, as a democracy... don't you have any shame in you, for God's sake, about that?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0053par0524	There's more of you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0054par0525	Does Ahmet Turk say anything to the martyrs?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0526	Look, the least you could say about the attack on Ahmet Turk...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0054par0527	Our soldiers are martyrs, are you making any noise?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0528	...we'll bring the responsible to justice. You could have said, "We don't approve." You could have said. [[AK PARTY and MHP rows of noise]] There's a case called Men wait a minute. It'll happen to us tomorrow. Come on, we have to look out for each other, people who have been chosen by the will of the nation.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0055par0531	You condemn the PKK, and we will condemn it.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0532	Look, things are happening in Cizre right now, 85 people are being taken into custody. At 10 a.m., 500 people, 700 people... are being attacked with panzers, with TOMAs, with real weapons before their celebration begins. I've been in Antalya, I've been in Aydın, I've been in communication immediately, I've been in contact with the governor, I've been in contact with the chief of police, I've been in contact with the Minister of Justice, and he's been in disproportionate power, he's been violent, he's been in terrible attacks, because of a celebration of Nevroz. The government won't allow 20, you can celebrate at 21...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0056par0533	You don't celebrate neuroses, but you turn them on. It's not a Nevruz celebration, it's a turn-on.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0534	Gentlemen, from Eastern Turkistan to the Balkans for 10,000 years, the people of the Middle East celebrated the festival of Nevroz, even when there were no states. It is not the holiday of the state, it is the festival of the nation, it is the feast of the people, it is the common festival of the Middle East people, the Kurdish people, the Turks, the Persians, all the peoples.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0056par0535	Ergenekon Day, Ergenekon. It's the holiday of the Turks.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0536	As we celebrate this festival, the holiday will not be allowed, nor will the Constitution be granted permission for it.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0057par0538	Fight like a man!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0056par0539	Don't change the holiday of Ergenekon.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0540	But it is the only responsibility of our party manager, a police brother, to die in İstanbul, to make this forbidden decision, to provoke those who have made it, to forbid it, and to attack people in Diyarbakir with Panzers and armoureds.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0058par0541	You're the one who's involved.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0056par0542	Yeah, but you didn't celebrate, it wasn't a holiday.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0543	You guys, take a good look at these pictures, take a good look at this picture. The Panzer you see is an armored car. This is on Turkish soil. Look, take a good look at these photos.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0059par0544	Why are you celebrating on March 18th, no other day?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0545	Gentlemen, this isn't Gaza, it's Cizre. Take a good look, Panzers, armoureds, three or four of them coming in from a political party's party's iron gate, which has a group in parliament, firing with long-barreled weapons in order.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0060par0546	Where did the shooters go? Where did those who shot at the police go?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0547	There's 15 people in there, 15 of them. A lot of women. They let all the women in like this. Look, the way he was taken into custody. The district president is currently in Diyarbakır Medical School, beaten, injured. The mayors are inside, the city councilmen are inside. (AK PARTI) A festival of Nevroz will have to be taught more than that by those who did this to their own people during the celebration of the same work that Israel had done in Gaza. Take a good look at these photos. Those photos you see, take a good look at those panzers you see. Now, I'm asking you: Three very close newspapers today, three nearby newspapers, one of them -- we've made a press statement about this -- say: "There's been a shooting at the BDP building." I invite the Assembly, all of you; all of the party groups, the Parliament Human Rights Commission. Come and study in Cizre. If your heart wants to face the facts, if your heart wants to face justice, if your heart wants to face mankind, let's all go to four parties of Parliament to take a look. Have the four parties of this House review all the CCTV cameras together. Whoever did wrong, we're willing to go along with you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0060par0548	You can't act on your own!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0549	But let's go after whoever did wrong together. I'm being very clear. Four newspapers have been fired from the BDP building. Today, four newspapers close to the government say: "These lies have been fired from the BDP building." • These lies, personally the governor, the Chief of Police, are one to one in my meetings with the Minister of Justice, immediately, from a street far from the party building... that fire is dark, the provocation itself. Come, let's expose him as Congress. Our duty is to reveal the truth, to send the truth to this nation. This is the way to peace and brotherhood in this country. Those who look at Gaza and Cizre with the same view, and are aggressive, one day you will not be able to face this people, nor will you find a hand to squeeze them. After not even condemning Ahmet Turk, the moment comes, and you are crushed.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0060par0550	Give the PKK a reprimand.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0052par0551	My advice to you is to come with me in the face of these trials -- I invite the people -- let's go to Cizre together. I'm inviting the entire coven.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0061par0552	Blasphemy first!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0062par0553	Mr. President, sir, in fact, those who use neurosis as an excuse, those who use the spirit of this nation's unity and unity as an excuse, have squandered this neurism in terms of terrorism and rebellion rehearsals. In fact, this mentality has no purpose or goal to celebrate the neuresis.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0063par0554	There isn't.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0062par0556	So even on March 18th, the day of Çanakkale, the day of terror...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0064par0557	Who's attacking? I invite you to face the facts.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0062par0558	...the fact that they can use those words on this stand really means nothing more than crocodile tears.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0064par0559	Come, come, let's examine it together.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0062par0560	Here's our cops, here's our people...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0064par0561	Come on, let's go together.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0062par0562	A holiday that should be celebrated in peace has turned separatism into an act of rebellion.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0065par0563	Roger that, Mr. Vural. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0066par0565	Mr. President, in the Minister's speech, specifically for the AK PARTY Group, we're saying that we're being violent...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0065par0566	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0067par0568	Çanakkale, you will remember our martyrs, you...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0068par0569	The martyrs of Çanakkale are not only yours, but the martyrs of all of us. Don't make any distinctions.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0069par0570	No one's doing it.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0573	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, let me listen to some of the tension in the street, please, before I bring it here. Please, friends... Look, dear friends, we're talking about a holiday. Oh, my God! The holiday, the unity, the brotherhood, the tolerance, the abundance, the abundance...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0071par0576	Prohibitions...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0577	We are celebrating the spring - bearing spirit, and we have declared it a holiday, and it is a holiday in many parts of the world, in Central Asia, in Anatolia, in many lands, with horses. No one has the right to poison this holiday!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0071par0578	Why did you poison him by banning him? Why did you attack him?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0579	No one has the right to poison this holiday!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0071par0580	Special days, cultural days, at the mercy of the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0581	Dear friends, the holiday is not celebrated by Molotov cocktails. A holiday isn't about downloading glass frames.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0071par0582	No one's ever celebrated it like that. You had the gun, you had all the power of the government.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0583	The holiday is celebrated together, together, by the Kurd, by the Turk, by the Laz, by the Cherkek. That's the way it's supposed to be.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0071par0584	It's not in your tradition.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0585	Please, please look at what you've done. Look until that day comes. Look, let me put it this way: Mr. Ahmet, the punch that comes to Turk is not true, it's something that shouldn't happen. It's true at that point, but until then, those of you who have used this holiday as a provocation tool, you, people like you, who think like you, don't you ever look at it and say, "What did we do?"
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0071par0587	Mr. President, please step in. What do people like you mean?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0072par0588	One second... one second...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0589	Dear friends, let's enjoy the holiday. Yes, I've just said, we also condemn Ahmet Turk's fist, which means Batman Governor has made a statement. There's been an investigation, and he's conducting an investigation. Let's hope he shows up.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0073par0591	You can hardly take it off.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0070par0592	Who did it, what he did, what he did with the consequences. That's what we want. But please, please, dear friends, let's look at what we've done and look at ourselves. This country doesn't deserve this. Look, for a week now, the tensions, the campaigns that have been started before Nevruz Day, we have to avoid all the steps and actions that have somehow led people back to this country's sense of belonging, which have turned people against each other in this country. We call it peace, we call it tolerance, we call it brotherhood. It's the holidays. If we could live this holiday without provocations, if we could live with that, it would be more real, more riveting. Of course, you take a side to it, but you ignore the windows, the frames that come down, the problems that have been burned and destroyed. Who's doing this, why is he doing this? If we stand against all of this together, if we all show this opposition together, we will all celebrate this holiday as it is worthy. Please, friends, in this country, the holidays must now be celebrated as a holiday, celebrated as a brother, celebrated in peace, and celebrated in peace, and celebrated without causing them some trouble, you are as responsible as you are, at least... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're all responsible at this point. We all have to do our part.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0074par0598	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit01spe0075par0599	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0075par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations on Article 5 of the Law Proposal No. 194. Commission? Here. Government? Here.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0076par0005	Mr. President, a brief statement, sir.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0075par0006	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0077par0007	Court is adjourned, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0076par0008	It's not a tease.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0075par0009	No, no, not according to teasing.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0076par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, just before the session was closed, some very ugly statements were used as a feature of our ministers. The whole public knows who the real trouble is in this country, what the real trouble is, and there's nothing I can say about it. Here are some phrases that are used, almost like a thief suppressing the landlord, trying to make it look like he's in a guilty, powerful position. I say, first, they look in the mirror for themselves. Again, I didn't understand the inability to tolerate a brotherly celebration of the holiday. This is the only holiday, these are the Kurds, the Turks. This is the festival of everyone, the festival of an entire nation. Central Asia is now celebrated in Kyrgyzistan, celebrated in the Balkans, celebrated in Anatolia. I say we enjoy the holiday. In the same way, Kandil is speaking with the mouth of Kandil, and we wouldn't expect the people who want the bridge to curse terror anyway, but then they ask the man: "What is the need for you as a political party?" I want to ask you as a political party if you and Kandil will be resolved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I think the language we're going to speak should be the language of love, the language of tolerance.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0018	Mr. President, I mean, in his speech, there was an insult to the "Z" from "A" to "Z." I mean, of course, if...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0019	But yours is so... umbilical... and yours is so...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0020	I didn't insult anyone.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0021	I get it, but I mean, the general...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0022	I didn't insult anyone. I'm from the fields, I know the gas I've been eating for four days. I've seen people get stabbed. I'm a deputy, a representative of the people, and it's my duty to carry things here. It doesn't work like that, like, with all the hansom speeches and whatnot. I've expressed my thoughts about solving problems here.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0023	Yes, you did.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0024	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0025	You already have, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0026	Don't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0027	I mean, look, now, I'm not gonna...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0028	Mr. President, look, I don't want to...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0029	I know. Look, now, I'm...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0078par0030	But if that language is not answered now...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0031	Wait a second... wait a second... look, you already did. Now, if you'll notice, I mean, at times, even though he's lost his edge, I've never interrupted a speaker, a congressman, or turned off his microphone. So, I'm trying to be careful, but I'm telling you -- I'm speaking for all of you -- and I'm telling you, Mr. Sakik, as I'm telling all of the MPs in Congress -- that you're going to hurt each other, that you're going to be watching us, that you're going to stay away from the voters, that you're going to make our people nervous. I mean, we really can't carry this tension. Here, I'll give you a say right now, but please don't cause a second tension. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0080par0035	Mr. President, I need your word on the location.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0079par0036	Now, that's what happens when it's on you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0081par0039	Mr. President, dear friends, I have a situation here. I mean, really, I've seen where our country's headed, I've lived. That's why, for four days, I've witnessed how the security forces have attacked in such a state of mind. If there's an attack on a congressman's vehicle, if the glass is broken, if a gas bomb is thrown into it, and it goes in and hits the congressman there, and the MPs here lecture the hammock as if nothing had happened, sir, the language of Kandil... the Kandil is a fact of this country. What are we gonna do? Didn't you go and see Kandil? The Oslo talks were with me? Didn't you go to Kandil? So we had a reality, then. That's the way it's supposed to be. Why are you reacting so much to us when we're setting this up? Yeah, and we know we can get a reaction to that, but we have to say it. We need to see the state of those cops together. Seriously, if he's our cop and they're responsible for our safety, I swear, we can't live with that. With these, shaped like that, against a public enemy, I assure you, there is no way to live. The greatest hatred that can corrupt the country or divide the country is the hatred and hatred look.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0080par0040	Let's not do that.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0081par0041	That's what they do, the cops at your disposal, and you...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0080par0042	Don't you guys do it.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0081par0043	Look, for the past four days, there's been gas bombs on the public, bullets on the public... so why are these... your prohibitive understanding of these things brought this to this point. Before, the Nevroz were celebrated, nothing was happening, why did you forbid it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0080par0045	We didn't forbid it, we celebrated it. Wasn't it celebrated? Didn't you?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0082par0046	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0083par0049	Mr. President, good lawmakers, seven of our officers have been killed in these last few days, and everyone must see it first. This is the PKK bullet that was fired on our police. It's nobody's place or place to blame the security forces when the truth is out there. (Applause from MHP rows; AK PARTI rows) So, I invite this wind, which creates this result, to bring to its senses all those responsible who turned Turkey into a storm. The blood of seven of our officers has yet to be drained. Their children have no right here to speak of common sense, brotherhood, peace, without sharing their relatives' property, without mourning them, without sharing their pain. First of all, everyone has to know that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0084par0051	Mr. President, these words are for us. In this geography...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0085par0052	That's enough, please...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0084par0053	Wait a minute, let me tell you something, Mr. President, listen to me.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0085par0054	I mean, look, this has gone on, it's over.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0084par0055	Every man who died in this geography, his name is the police, his name is the guerrilla, his name is the soldier, these are my brothers. I carry it in my heart. I don't discriminate between any death. These dead cops are my brothers. I'm desperate for them not to die; for him my voice is so loud, so I'm inviting Parliament on duty. I wonder why people don't want a spring to come so badly. That's our fear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0086par0056	First, the police, the police...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0084par0057	But now, look...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0087par0058	You don't get a right to terror! You don't get rights on illegal ground.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0086par0059	We won't get anywhere, Mr. Sýrým Bey. We won't get anywhere doing this.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0088par0060	Yes, and Mr. Sakek -- for those of you who can't hear -- expressed his regret about the martyrdom of our security, our soldiers, our police. By the way, on the third day, there's been talk of neurosis, but something has come to my attention. Shall we ask our children a question about being me in the first place? Do our children know about Hizir Aleyhisssalam? Does he know about Hidirellez? We had a fight about the Nevru, but we all celebrated Valentine's Day, right? Do any of you remember Mrs. Narende -- the lady just told you? Does anyone know Mrs. Narende? Everyone knows about the Seven Dwarves. We forgot about Hizir, and brought home Santa. Even the Imams are discussing it. Now, on the one hand, when we're fighting over values, when we're fighting over values, on the other hand, who's values are coming instead of those that are being lifted, so neither you, nor I, nor his children are getting along with each other, but they all celebrated Valentine's Day together. Maybe because I felt the need to pay attention to it, to draw attention to it, it wasn't really my place to say anything, but I wanted to remind you. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] [[Continue]] On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Kütahya MP Hasan Fehmi Kinay. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0089par0072	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I salute you all. I'm afraid we've just witnessed some unfortunate statements from Mr. Sakak, who we've been waiting for before, who should have had experience and who should have used the bench in a clean language. I, of course, would like to exaggerate the debate on this neurosis, to expand, to take into account the sensitivity of the House at this point, the sensitivity of Turkey through this point. You put the final point very well, Mr. President. Of course, this nation also has a neuron, and he has a hadirellez. At this point, we must join hands, celebrate these holidays in peace as a nation. Ben, first of all, they made a very unfortunate statement to our Minister of the Interior here, Mr. Sakek...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0090par0076	The Minister of Interior is insulting the whole of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0089par0077	They said it was trouble.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0090par0078	Your tongue is dirty!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0089par0079	There is no greater trouble than terror, Mr. Sakek. (EC PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) First hand this over.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0090par0080	If in a country, you play with so many social tissues and fight amongst the people... That's trouble.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0089par0081	Right now, there is no greater trouble than terrorism in Turkey, and there is no greater custody than terrorism. Our Home Secretary, especially our Prime Minister, our security forces, are fighting to ward off this plague from Turkey. Appreciate it, at this point, you do your duty as BDP, your political duty. That's how I express it. The issue of my speech, which I have not spoken to, is actually about a number of criticisms, critiques, deficiencies, flaws, which our beloved Kütahya MP, Alim Iztahya, has brought to the attention of the road to Kütahya. I want to thank him specifically for that. There will be some criticisms of Kütahya. About Turkey, of course, from members of our opposition parties. We follow them carefully, and it is our duty, of course, to answer them. Now, once, first of all, let's say that all the speakers who have come up here have been a record of our Minister of Transport since 2002, in the ten-year period of power, to preserve that seat as Minister of Transport -- from that period to now on, praised the actions that Turkey has demonstrated about where it's brought it from, and they've given up that right. With his opposition, his power and a fact already known to Turkey, we have once again expressed here. I'd like to thank them in front of you. As for Kütahya, of course, Kütahya, as in many provinces in Turkey, for many years, the clusters had fallen, especially in terms of land roads. Look, all the numbers, all the numbers that we're going to throw out, that's what that means. Now the divided road has taken over the 24km divided road, considered a luxury for Kütahya in 2002. As far as we're concerned today, my dear friends, there's been an additional 100 miles. Now, on average, we're looking at 20 million euros spent on the land routes from 1998 to 2002, Hajji. As of last year, there's been a total of 77 million dollars. Now, you've taken some numbers, but you've probably evaluated the initial grants. We don't need to go to State Planning, not initial grants, we have the opportunity to buy from the Ministry of Transport, from the Highways. Now, we held a meeting last night until twelve o'clock last night, headed by our Minister and Veysel Eroglu, who is the top minister of the Aegean District as MPs of the Aegean Region. Hopefully, we'll do it all over Turkey. I would like to thank the Minister for inviting us and informing us on such an important matter. The whole area is on the table. We discussed everything in terms of roads, in terms of State Railways, in terms of projects that have been developed.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0091par0086	The Inevitable Event!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0089par0087	Now, here's what's come up: the Kütahya (Kütahya) Highways have invested 404 million dollars in the last ten years. Look, folks, as of this year -- Mr. Minister has just expressed -- we're doing a project for just 2 billion dollars this year and then the next investments. We took the divided path from zero to this point. Now, the length of the road was about 300 miles [460 km] [460 km] from Kütahya (Kütahya) and as of today, the construction of 300 miles [350 km] was at stake. I, of course, won't take up your long time here, but I'm just going to sum up the matter of the Kütahya (Kütahya) which we presented to our Minister yesterday. First: As of 2012, we have requested that all divided roads and project investments be accelerated. The BSK studies... have been tendered last year for the construction of the road between Bozük and Kütahya, but unfortunately it has become a matter of trial.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0092par0089	Mr. Congressman, Kütahya deserves the best of everything, more, more...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0089par0090	These cases have been tendered unintended, and hopefully, Dear President, as of this year, we will carry them out. From now on, the road that connects Kütahya and Bozizuk is already divided, its standard of road is increasing, and hopefully, we will be able to travel hundreds of miles in the BSK standard. The other thing we're saying is that the A1 quality road standard of ryerhisar-Emet-Hisarcık-Gediz-Altıntaş landways is to increase the A1 quality of the road standard, as well as the 4km linking the road between the Aslanapa-Altıntaş-Pazars, which is to be quickly tendered as a split pathway of the road between Abide-Geree-Eyca-Balesir, and as I have just stated, the construction of the road between Kutahya-Bossiz-Bosiz is to be finished earlier, never to be interconnected. As our Minister has performed throughout Turkey so far, he will demonstrate this performance in the same way for Kütahya from now on. Our entire nation has a share in this success, but, of course, the entire ministry, especially our Minister of Transport, has performed with great sacrifice, with great performance, that the vote that we received in Kütahya, since 2002 -- the vote we received in Kütahya -- has risen from 50 percent to 65 percent. One of the major policy areas, one of its sectors, is the transport sector, which carries the vote from 34 per cent to 50 per cent of the EC PARTI ruling all over Turkey, and Turkey knows that. I salute you all on this occasion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0093par0096	Thank you, Mr. Kinay. In the name of the individuals...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0094par0098	Mr. President, I want to talk to you about bullying. He said I misread the numbers.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0093par0099	I'll get the reports, Mr. Light, according to him.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0094par0100	Sir, he said the numbers aren't right; the numbers are here, please...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0093par0101	One second... one second... Because as far as I'm concerned, I've never felt or seen, I may be wrong, I'm going to have the paperwork filed.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0094par0103	Sir, he said there was more money left, so he expressed that I was missing. I have to make this statement.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0093par0104	No, not like that, come on.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0095par0105	But he's a liar, Congressman.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0096par0106	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0093par0107	Sir...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0096par0108	Mr. Hatip told me about the investment in Kütahya, 400 billion. I want him to talk about investments in other cities. Could you explain those numbers, please? What was done to Adıyaman, Adıyaman?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0097par0110	Our deputy is a liar, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0098par0111	Now, look...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0099par0112	I'll thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0098par0113	Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0099par0116	Mr. President, first of all, thank you. And I'd like to thank our Congressman. Of course, it's the most natural request of all of us to get what Kütahya (Kütahya) deserves from the investments made in Turkey, and our deputy expressed it. See, 2003-2011 Turkey total of all investments, I represent the official figures of the Ministry of Development -- the former State Planning Agency: 214 billion 730 million $779. The total amount of $867 million is only 40 per cent of the share he must receive. I express the distribution of the official data of the Transport Ministry over the years: Mr. Congressman, 2003, 1 million 250,000; 2004, 3 million; 2005, 6 million; 2006, 7 million 849 thousand; 2007, 9 million, 624; 2008, 8,845 thousand; 2009, 1 million; 2010, 5 million 396 thousand; 2011, 6 million, 333,000; 50 million, 208 thousand in total. 1/11 of what he should get.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0100par0120	You say start-up grants.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0099par0121	That's the beginning and the end. If there are any more, we'd appreciate it if you'd explain them.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0100par0122	I explained.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0099par0123	So I have nothing to say if we're willing to settle for one, when he should have taken 11. So you enter the roads of Kütahya, wherever you enter Turkey, from Afyon, Eskişehir, Uskişehir, Uğur, Manisa and Balıkesir, and every time you enter, everyone in Turkey knows that he greets you, and so do those who follow them. But I thank you, too, especially because I know you're going to follow up on this. I congratulate you, too, that you didn't break this invitation after my invitation earlier, you made your statement. I thank you on behalf of my fellow members of the tribe, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0101par0131	First word for the individuals, Mr. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0102par0134	Thank you. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute your honorable committee. Of course, the conclusion of the debate over Kütahya is that I want to illustrate Manisa, although Manisa is our 13th largest province, it is also our 18th province in terms of facial measurement, but in terms of transportation investments, it is 47°th, and these transport investments are progressing dramatically in Manisa. I wish that the Minister would distribute the resources of the public and the state between the provinces and between the regions and speed up investments and services. Dear lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on the 5th Amendment. Turkey must now stop and think about public tenders, accountability and judgment. What is happening in Turkey in the use of public resources? From privatisations to public tenders, infrastructure projects to development, to the sale of forest and water basins, there is an invisible conglomerate in all tenders with hands, eyes, ears, and majors. The invisible conglomerate is an ally company. Billions of dollars are transferred to invisible holdings. The invisible conglomerate is in the midst of corruption. A handful of horny minority countries are siphoning their resources. What the invisible conglomerate does is a legal offense, a religious prohibition, and ethical injustice, wickedness, and immorality. The Public Contraction Act determines the basic and procedures to be followed in the tenders made by public institutions and organisations using public resources. The administrations are responsible for providing transparency, competition, equal treatment, credibility, secrecy, public supervision, proper conditions and timely use of resources. All public expenditures must be carried out according to the Public Contraction Act, which is the expression in the Law. Again, he will control and supervise every moment of the tenders from the beginning to the signing of the contract. The Public Contraction Act was issued on January 4, 2002 by the government, where the National Movement Party was also a partner in government, so that no government was robbed, no embezzlement, no public taxes, no money collected from the people came to power, no tenders made by party-backed businessmen. However, we are learning that the number of corruption files in the Public Contractorship has exceeded 100. Claims from the state that the money that was embezzled by the tender corruption exceeds $1 billion have been made public. No one can ignore the responsibility of AKP power in all this. One of the laws he loves most to play on nine years of AKP power is the Public Contraction Law, and the second is the provisions for the AKP. Therefore, the Public Contracting Agency, founded in 2002 during the National Movement Party, was unfortunately the centre of the embezzlement debates during the AKP period. It is the Justice and Development Party's Government that is responsible for making the Public Contractorship, the center of the embezzlers, which will prevent tornadoes. It has been directly reached by the AKP in the Public Contraction Law 21 so far, and along with these regulations, there have been about 50 amendments, and its application and practices have been changed and limited by a decision in 10 laws. The proposed law demanding a change in the National Education Basic Law is now an exception to the Public Contraction Law for Tablet Computers and Technologies as part of the Conqueror Project, and it is intended to allow widespread uploads that extend for up to 15 years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these thoughts, I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0103par0145	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the individuals, Adana MP Mehmet Şükrü Erdinç. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Erdinç.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0104par0149	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the 5th Amendment to the Law and Public Contracting Law on the Act of the Value Tax Act 194, and on the 5th Amendment of the Law on Making Some Investments and Services Investigated-Employment Model Framework. I hereby salute your high council. At the beginning of my words, I ask that the security officers who were killed at Mt. Cudi of Şırnak province and that the Adana police who were injured during an unauthorized demonstration in Cizre district of Şırnak province, who were killed in the hospital, be merciful to Ahmet İkoğlu and to the families of our martyrs, be patient with Allah. Valuable lawmakers are referred to as the construction-and-rescue model of Act 3996, the financing of public investments or services which require advanced technology and high-finance resources, and the implementation of the public investment or services provided by the private sector, and the reciprocity of the property or service provided by the parties during this period, as well as the transfer of its facilities to public enterprises, which are being maintained at the end of the period, in full, in full, and in business. As part of Health Services Act 3359, construction of hospital and health facilities is envisioned on the basis of the public-private sector partnership to resolve the problem of physical capacity in the health system. These models aim to reduce public spending, encourage the private sector, open foreign financing and reduce its need, provide quality and competition in the ministry with foreign capital and technology entry. However, one of the costs produced during the implementation of investment and services under Law 3996 is the value added tax. The VAT, which contractors pay under the tender project, is delaying the return of investment costs to companies in production and construction, which is reflected in the process of operating by companies. The law proposal, which has a negative impact on the financing of investments met by the private sector, is envisioned for construction-enforcement model projects under Law 3996, and for treatment of health care facilities agreed to by the Supreme Planning Board in accordance with Health Services Act 3359. Thus, by shortening the duration of the operation of investments by the tasked firm, investments will be shortened to business and public return process. The 5th amendment of the proposal of the law stipulates that its methods of receiving goods and services from the Turkish State Railways Administration's joint partnerships shall be made exceptions from the Public Contraction Act. Our state railways have three joint partnerships, including Turkish Railway Machines Industry, Turkey's Car Industry, Asş and Turkey's Engine Industry and Motor Industry Inc, and five related factories. The General Directorate of State Railways has held several tenders over the year to repair railway lines and supply new trains. Companies that won the tender of the State Railways General Directorate, under the provisions of the Public Contraction Act, provided that it is unable to obtain goods or services from the joint partnership of any public administration, provide a partnership with the General Directorate in implementing goods or services that are subject to the tender. This leads to a cost increase in practice against the public. As a result of the provision brought with Article 5 of the proposal, these costs will be prevented from making exceptions to the provisions of the Public Contraction Law in the purchases of the State Railway General Directorate's joint partnerships. In this way, interim companies that have no value to contribute to the public supply process will be prevented from entering. I hereby salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0105par0161	Thank you, Mr. Erdinç. Moving on to QA. Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0106par0164	Mr. Secretary, I've just given examples of passenger transport, and I'd like to give you an example of cargo transport: The 1980 cruise was 16.1; the year 2000 was 7,1; the year 2010 was 5.1. Railway: 10.6 in 1980; 5.3 in 2000; 5.3 in 2010. Road: 73.3 in 1980; 87.5 in 2000; 89.5 in 2010. Airway: 1980, 0.080; 2000, 0.2; 2010, 0.1. As you can see here, the weight of the road has increased in cargo, the railroad, the airway, and the sea road have reached a point of complete end, and the condition of the railroads is utterly pathetic. By the way, I'd like to talk about the traverses. I know that these factories, with 900,000 capacity in opium and Sivas, have the ability to produce travers for the fast train, to run a single factory, to produce B-75 and B-50. But these traverses are not...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0107par0172	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0108par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, apart from the numbers I just issued, did you contribute to the transportation sector for additional Kütahya? If so, how are these numbers distributed over the years? Second: What is the status of the roadwork that connects Simav County, which collapsed due to the earthquake, to baneman, via Bursa? So, do you have any work on the route to connect the scholarship-Simav-Auk connection? If so, how much money is earmarked for 2012? Another is how far is it to work on the Rabbit-Emet-Hilarky-Simav route? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0109par0178	Mr. Eryılmaz...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0110par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Hatay is a tourist destination of 150,000 inhabitants in the District of Samandağ, Hatay Province. The freeway was planned in 1970, and was implemented in 1989. Despite more than 40 years, there has been no study of this environment. In our talks with the authorities, it has been said that the ministry has not set aside funds for the cost of publicisation, so the freeway has not been opened. Traffic problems have made life unbearable in the county. Do you intend to allocate funds as a cost of publicization to solve this problem that's getting gangrene? When do you think, sir? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0111par0182	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0112par0183	I give up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0111par0184	Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0113par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Minister has made some statements, explaining crazy projects for Istanbul: the Canal Project, the Third Bosphorus Project and the North Marmara Highway Project. Now, have environmental impact assessments been done about Istanbul's climate, vegetation, subterranean water properties, and many other projects that affect its many things? If it was done, who did it? How do we get them? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0114par0188	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0115par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I haven't been able to answer a few questions I asked Mr. Secretary yesterday. There's a 60km distance between Tunceli Ovacık district and Ilica. They did 20 kilometers of this from the Tunceli County Special Administration budget, 40 kilometers away. When this road is built, the distance between Tunceli and Ankara is less than 300km. Do you plan to do it this way? Second: Yesterday you said the cost of the Pertek Bridge was too high. Madam Secretary, in fact, your district manager there, unfortunately, doesn't want any service to go to Tunceli. When you examine the distribution of funds to the roads of Tunceli, you can see that he gives much to Bingol, and gives to Adıyaman, and gives to Malatiah, and gives to Elazig, but not to Tunceli. This guy's been acting all over the place. Then, he gives the tenders to the same firms, especially the Highways supply contracts. Yeah, well, when you put a district manager on hold for five years, six years, seven years, he gets friendly with the contractors there...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0116par0193	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0117par0194	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to ask the Minister: there are serious collapses on the Marmaris road in a hurry to open before the election last year. How much public damage has been done on these roads without waiting for the time of these collapses, without enough cylinder processing? When will the story of the serpent return to the Villager-Dalaman, the branched road to Dalaman-Fethiye be completed? Again, when will Yaman-Millas' divided path be completed? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0118par0199	Mr. Secretary, please. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Akar has given me certain rates of changes from past years to present. Of course, it is necessary to express that the weight of the land road is real in both Turkey and its passengers. That is because, starting in 1950, territorial policies have been prioritized and the railways have been neglected. In recent years, however, we have doubled its transport of railways, with renovations on the railways, and new lines being made, up from 13 million tons to 24 million tons. This is a record in the history of a hundred and fifty years of railway. Another issue is that the total transport in aviation has increased from 8.5 million to 58.5 million in domestic lines to 118 million in total. Taking into account all of this, and considering the increase in Turkey's cargo loads has increased by threefold, the distance has been improved. No doubt the highway is still heavy, and I agree with you completely, but we need to invest at least 15 more years in order to ensure land, railroad, seaway, airway balance. We need to keep investing in the railroads uninterrupted. It's an increase in seamanship, but it's not as fast as we'd like it to be. Mr. Light has asked for investments in Kütahya for many years. 2003, 15 million -- I'm not saying the sides -- 2004, 42 million; 2005, 55 million; 2006, 49 million; 2007, 37 million; 2008, 38 million; 2009, 40 million; 2010, 53 million; 2011, 77 million; total 405 million. These are the investments that are happening. So it is, as Mr. Light said, 70 million...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0119par0204	Is that a total delivery or a total delivery, Mr. Secretary? These are investments in land roads, not all of them. All of it, all of the Ministry of Transport's investments are undoubtedly more than that, I can tell you that.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0120par0206	Not including the surrounding provinces, Mr. Secretary? No, sir, it's just investments in Kütahya. So this law has turned into the Kütahya-Manisa competition. We're talking about something different here, so I don't get it.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0119par0208	There's nothing left for Erzincan, Minister! Yes, Mr. Eryilmaz Hatay brought up an environmental issue in the Samandak. Mr. Congressman, dear friends, we usually have to get help from municipalities when we're doing environmental work because it costs a lot of money in publicisation and 18 practices, so as long as we get help from municipalities in this regard, things have been easier. Ten miles [15 km] from Antioch-Samandağ, two miles [15 km] to work continue. The problem will be solved once we get support for publicisation. Canal Istanbul, the third bridge is under way. Of course, in these projects, the environment...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0121par0213	Thank you, you'll give me the rest in writing.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0122par0214	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0121par0215	Time's up, Mr. Young. Then you'll say, "Why did you spend the time?" Congressmans, there are three motions on the matter. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the 5th amendment of the proposed law be removed from the bidding text.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0123par0220	Sir, let's withdraw that motion.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0121par0221	Okay. I'm going to read the signatures of the other motions: Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0124par0226	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0121par0227	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Corporate, please.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0125par0230	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, the Justice and Development Party, they've come out of public office on charges of improving government for ten years, and they've still been doing it for ten years, but, of course, without that development, it's more of our people's, the workers', the citizens' share than their pockets, their health, their labor. Mr. Prime Minister, you know, when he made these moves, he said, "Don't stop, keep going." The last time he said that was the other day, but for what? He said it for the fighting going on in the mountains, and now, here we are, talking about the pain of six dead police officers. Similarly, he said, "We will not be a boutique state." So what are 12 soldiers doing in Afghanistan? You don't know the dreams or dreams of this country. Our borders are beyond Sivas, Ankara, Istanbul; we will go in and out everywhere, we will be everywhere. A moment ago, there was talk of the NATO base at the Globecik, the early warning base. As long as we are in NATO, we will face more casualties, not 12 soldiers. I'd like to share with you first that we need to know and see and that this is a wrong turn. The other thing -- Mr. Secretary -- is that we're now discussing a law on government railroad investments. I was reminded of a trial on February 7th. Again, due to a statute of limitations, the trial of 41 citizens who died on 22 July 2004 in the speeding train disaster of Adapazari was dismissed. I was hoping that while the Ministry of Transport was thinking more about these kinds of laws, when they were doing studies, when they were working on train lines, on dams, on public tenders in large structures to prevent accidents like this, if they were thinking about how these contractors could make more profit at a low cost, rather than making laws for those who built large structures, for the sake of workers, for the sake of their labor, for the sake of their labor, for the sake of their work. Finally, we think of workers who died in the construction of the dam in Adana, who still had no bodies. I'd like to remind the Minister that the Köseköy-Gebze line, you know, has been closed for 30 months due to ground study. Who was using this line? This line was used by poor, working, working people, but for such a reason, this line was shut down, and we asked the Minister on January 19th, we haven't received his answer yet. So, the AKP government, Mr. Secretary, when drafting these kinds of laws, rather than bringing new privileges, new privileges, new exemptions to a number of capital groups, instead of the fact that public service is not looting these areas, but the real work of its return to citizens, citizens, workers, workers, workers, workers, workers, workers' problems, citizens' health, their problems, their health. As a matter of fact, we're after this, and we want them to be enlightened. We wish the House would use control authority, legislature, more that way. We no longer have the patience to let our people die, to give their lives, to have bases, to have soldiers, to have operations, not just in this country, but in the borders of the neighbouring country. So, we have no business there. We'll keep saying, "No." We'll continue to be there for those who say, "No." I'd like to present this amendment proposal to your attention. Yes, this clause must be removed from this proposal because it is not a law in favor of the country, of the citizen, of the worker. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0126par0240	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Aslanoglu, who will speak?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0127par0242	Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0126par0243	Mr. Akar, please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0128par0245	Mr. Secretary, you're talking about how you're doing well in transportation while you're responding to the samples I just gave you. We see it, it's done well, but you do as every government does. Mr. Secretary, are you looking? Mr. Secretary... Mr. Secretary... friends, we'd better discuss other business some other time. Look, you can see the growth in the indoor intake, and you can see the growth rates of passengers and cargo on State Railways, Airways, Sea Roads. And it's not very relevant to the numbers that you're saying, so we can see here what real growth is, despite the growth in this virtually involuntary inhalation, as we would like it to be. Now, no one's talking about this stuff, so I've made a promise to withdraw this stuff, it's a very dangerous substance. Why a dangerous substance? Look, what the friends say now is that the release of the Public Contraction Act... is added to Law 4734, saying: "With this clause, the purchases of the State Railways from its subsidiary will be excluded from the tender scope." The requirement says: "We are being delayed and we are being harmed or our jobs are not working properly." In what he calls lateness, the wagon also talks about delays in buying locomotives. What are these organizations? Turkey's Lokomotif and Motor Industry Anonym Company (TULOSASAS), Turkey's Van Industry Anonym Company (TUVASAS), Turkey's Railway Machines Industry Anonym Company (TIDEMSASAS). Now, this is directly connected to the state, TCDD, and it's all about 100 percent of TCDD. So it's not 51 percent, it's all there. So all the financing, all the projects or production of this place is based on the demands of the TCDD. The engine is being produced, it's being built, it's said that there's a delay in this business, and if we use the Public Contraction Act, we can't get them to do that. No, when we do what we call the TCDD budget, the next year, when we do what we call the "forecast," he decides how many cars he's going to build, how many locomotives he's going to order here, and he's going to order these factories. So he says, "I'm going to buy so many products from you, and I'm going to finance it. There's no problem up here, but it looks pretty good, but where does the danger start? There's three companies that produce these three companies, which have a 1.2% partnership, and there's private companies, and there's travers companies, and there's cars, and there's companies that make cars, and there's companies that produce locomotives. These companies are companies owned by TCDD, which have a partnership of 1, 2, 3 per cent or a partnership of 5 per cent. Now, if you remove this from the State Contraction Act, you will close the assets of companies that are owned or produced together without contract. Is that true, Minister? It's not true. Is everything all right with my explanations? That's exactly what these three companies are for. You'll see when you read the law. I'll explain. Now, I don't understand why we need the State Contraction Act. You've made the State Contraction Act look like it, and they have a Coal Company. You've brought a redevance, 15 percent of redevans shares, 100 percent of coal companies, instead of 15 percent, take the entire production. The prosecution has launched an investigation, and while the trial is in progress, you passed one (r) from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was the third article (r). You've brought in a substance to prevent those who shop at the Redevans company from being tried for free shopping. Now, you've removed the Turkish Coal Company from the Public Contraction Act, and the reason is: coal relief for the poor. It's clear how much coal is available, and how much coal the redevans companies have given to the Turkish Coal Company. It's all clear, clear, clear in the Tassman reports. The state went over it, and there's lawlessness here, there's abuse, there's corruption. He said, Turkey's Grand National Assembly added a dam that couldn't stand it; it was me (r); it added the third article (r) of Law #4734 (r) of Law (i.e. The rest of them burned down. Now, when I look at this Public Contraction Act, you take all the institutions of the state out of this scope. Who's been removed? The ministry has decided that it is related to defence, security or intelligence fields or that it should be conducted in secrecy, that it will be under international agreements with foreign financing, and that there will be different tenders and services in the financing agreement, which are stated to apply its basics, counselling services, Social Services and Children's Protection Institutions, the Ministry of Education is continuing, you have removed all OSCEs. Now, you've added the FATIH Project to 4+4+4. I don't know why you put it there. There's a (s) bend, and you add a (t) ben, and you don't use this Public Contraction Act in the tenders, in the purchases of national education. Please, shake it off.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0129par0255	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The last sentence of the second joke of Article 48 of Article 6 - 4734 of the Law has been changed in the following way. Of the 13th article (b), however, counselling services can be carried out under four times the maximum limit for service purchases in sub-arrange (2) of the 13th Article (b). The first word on the matter is for Osmaniye MP Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0130par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I would like to present to you the views of the Nationalist Movement Party on Article 6 of Proposition No. 194. I salute your high council. In the battle in Mount Cudi district of Şırnak province, I bless and bless six of our special officers, who have been killed in the battle, and may the Great Creator grant them his paradise. I pray for immediate healing for their grieving families, for their patience, for their wounded security forces. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers are changing the last sentence of Article 4734 of the law proposal we're negotiating. The joke is currently being changed, architecture and engineering, study and project, map and cadastro, each scale is ordered to receive services in technical, financial, legal or similar areas, such as zoning, CED report, control and control, by tendering services from consultants and amongst certain willing. With this amendment to Law 5812 in 2008, international applications have been taken into account, and the tender between those willing, such as the broad and complexness of the work, the need for special expertise and knowledge. The AKP government's request and the clause that has just been modified by the AKP Group in parliament for these reasons in 2008 are being reorganised and the process of tendering between certain volunteers is being waived, while the higher limit is up to 1,300,000 euros. What's changed? The technical, financial, legal aspects of consulting services have been eliminated, as well as special expertise? No. The government doesn't have a plan, it doesn't have a program, it's trying to do what it thinks, and now it's come to this. In fact, the government considers the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to be one of its branches. It's time to send instructions, make a law, break every rule of law using the majority of the House, that's what's become the case. That offer is one of them. The government isn't making the offer. Why? Because if there's a government bill, the opinion of the relevant public institutions and organizations must be taken, the regulatory impact analysis is done. But if this is done, the government's secrets will be revealed. So a couple of lawmakers dream of someone in one night, and they decide to make an offer for government work the way he did, and the prepared offer comes to the House, and the intelligent ones believe it? Nay, but men of understanding will see. The Public Proposal Act has now become the government's economic hub of distribution. The blessings of the government are being pursued by changes made in the Public Contraction Law to political allies. Instead of preventing corruption and corruption, power changes procedures and legal ways and even removes corruption, making corruption and irregularities legitimate. The most modified law during the ten-year AKP ruling has been the Public Contract Law. The public tender Act 4734 has been directly changed by the AKP by 21, indirectly 50 laws so far, limiting the scope and application to 10 laws. Any non-interesting law issued by parliament must be added to the exception of a public tender law. There are no letters left in the alphabet for exceptions. Instead of the Justice and Development Party, the AKP is called the Party to Change the Law on Public Relations. Today, the exceptions of the Law have become the general rule, and the general rules that must be followed have become the exception. The Public Contraction Act has been emptied. This law has now become a law only used to ensure that the government's supporters receive a tender. When the tenders are received by contractors the administration does not want, the administrations either embrace the provisions of the Public Contraction Act and cancel the tender or eliminate the willing. However, it is possible for the government, its allies, to pump economic power using the exceptions of the Law of Contraction. What is intended to be replaced by this law is the provisions that will allow certain professional and technical savings, some consulting tenders that require knowledge and skill to be presented to a section of the entity, which has almost no experience, which has begun operating after the AKP Powers, to receive a share of the power benefits. The tender between certain eager ones is first decided to suit the technical and professional qualities of the willing and then received price offers. In response, the new arrangement is intended to ensure that counselling services, up to 1,300,000 TL, are offered on the basis of the price, regardless of the few experience and technical capacity. The reason for the proposal is the delay of road tenders. You've had a double meal so far, and you've been propaganda about how many doubles we've had in ten years. So, what happened today, when you didn't complain about any delays that the current arrangement has not prevented you so far, that counseling tenders have become a barrier to you? Even your motive denies you. You're not trying to speed things up, you're just trying to make it easier to raid. What you're interested in is setting up a new pitch. Your power has become lawless. You don't see any blame for changing any laws -- including the Constitution -- that interfere with your monetary distribution system. You've changed the Public Contraction Act over and over again. Not enough, you've appointed personnel to the Public Contraction Agency with a decree under the law. You've got the institution you want. The Prime Minister's body language bureaucrats are sitting in the position of occupational forces, as if all institutions were earned positions. Public interest, efficient utilisation of public resources, equal treatment, transparency, the values to maintain and improve in society have been undermined, the AKP's erosion. I have a suggestion to you: Don't get tired of these devious and veiled corruption activities. You have power, you have majority. Let's remove the Public Contraction Act altogether, and all the tenders will be given to the people the Prime Minister wants. Let's make a one-point arrangement. And let not those who are not your helpers seek the provision of their children, and let them seek it elsewhere. You're not bidding anyway, so let's not waste any time and money. All public tenders will be left to AKP contractors, so you can relax. At least don't bring in a new Public Contraction Act and keep the legislature busy, and at least we'll give up hope in the name of equality and justice. Members of the government, stop seeing Turkey as a Darulharp. You run this country now. Stop looting this country's assets, the common economic values of the nation. Turkey is no longer a Darulharp, even from your power. It is forbidden for this state to take advantage of the wealth of this nation unjustly and to distribute it to the allies. The Prophet says, "The eyes of my people will be filled with greed for wealth and money." If we don't say this, if we don't warn you, it's a sin for us too. And know that I am sincere to you in my duty, and that it is not for you to decide. If we are unable to do so, God will certainly question them tomorrow. If you are not ashamed of the servant, then fear God, and stop this error. I end my words with a rubaisi of Omar Hayyam: his blessings came, and what they wanted, and they left the world. /You don't seem to be leaving at all, do you? They've always been like you. I salute the MPs of the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0131par0282	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Aykut Erdoğdu, please come in.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0132par0284	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 6th Amendment of Law Proposal No. 194. Our fellow law enforcement members would like me to make a gesture to them by speaking to them shorter, but let me tell you, in a law this important, I wish I could speak longer, but unfortunately, I don't stand a chance. Sadly, a new set of changes brought by the government regarding the Public Contraction Law came before us by law. Dear friends, let me tell you first: the sharpness of politics, the harshness of its language, the hurtfulness of it all makes us very uncomfortable, and it bothers me personally, but sometimes we have to use this painful language because we have a hard time hearing each other. My friend from the National Movement Party was actually very clear about his pain in this law when I looked in the hall and saw that many people didn't listen. However, I believe you, who are about to lay hands on this law, will make the wrong decision about the money entrusted to you. I fought corruption, abuse, mismanagement as a bureaucrat for years, and when I came to this assembly today, I saw that we didn't hear each other, that we didn't understand each other, that we made bad laws. Before I came here, we discussed this law with the Minister, the bureaucrats, and I'm afraid my views haven't changed. So I don't think there's a law on the benefit of Turkey. Let me summarize this process very quickly. Turkey had serious corruption problems, irregularities problems, and in the end of the 1990s, it merged with two major natural disasters and brought this country into very heavy economic crises, and in the government at the time, the Democratic Left Party, the National Movement Party, came up with very important laws, one of which was to pay the political price. There was a Law No. 2886 prior to the Public Contraction Act, which was about to become the focus of corruption, a law that binds the hands of governments, and they tried to avoid it with special funds that they established, and all the bureaucrats of the state gathered at the time, following the implementation of the World Trade Organization, the International Money Fund. This law that we've constantly changed, dear friends, translate it into German in German, translate it into English in England, but with the changes that have been made for ten years, the mechanisms, such as economics, efficiency, and fighting corruption, have been turned upside down. Now, the change we're going to make is going to be about 10 times the limit on the world, the consulting tenders. Let's not make these consulting tenders simple, for example, for the World Bank's projects, we've paid a very important price for these consulting tenders. These consulting tenders are such important tenders that, for example, when you're investing in a $10 billion government railroad, you decide how to do that with these consulting tenders. You put in pre-equipped conditions for people or institutions that you're going to consult with, and you're doing tenders between certain willing people. Now, in this exchange, it's going to be done in the same way that we're going to do this as a waste-buying contract, a waste collection tender. Dear friends, if that were true, it would be done all over the world. Just look at it this way, if it were true, it would be done all over the world. There were a number of other laws required by Law 4734, such as the law of sectors. In electricity, in water, in telecommunications, the law on sectors was required, but unfortunately that didn't come up on our agenda in Congress, and what happens when you take public institutions out of the Public Contract Act? I just -- Mr. Haydar has explained a little bit, but -- let me read something very brief from the Court's report about the distribution of coal to poor families, a very important wound. And I'll tell you this: every penny that goes to the poor makes me very happy, but it says that 128 thousand tons of coal sold out of 9 companies without a contract is $185, but it's the same coal that was bought without a contract. And it's not even an open contract. So much difference, so much burdened on the government, and that's about $2 billion in transactions, $2 billion in total. I wrote the first report on this in the government. Come on, I'm always saying, I'm CHP, you think I'm inclined, so two other supervisors wrote in the Treasury after me, wrote in the Ministry of Energy, wrote in the Court, and now as opposition MP, I'm not happy about it, but I'm sorry to say it as a Turkish National Assembly MP. The European Union Progress Report is now in my hands, and this law, unfortunately, has been closed by a law issued here during this corruption, and the European Union Progress Report says that the purchases of the government's General Directorate of Turkish Coal Businesses have been excluded from the scope of the Public Relation Act. It's a really sad situation, guys, and it's a sad situation for you guys, so I've always said it, and I've tried to tell you, and I've tried to tell you in my speeches, and we can make a mistake, and we can get through this mistake with most of us, but this mistake will never be forgotten, and just like in these unjust arrests, how consciences like dominos start to fall down right now, so consciences are going to start to fall down. Look, I'm reading from the Public Contractor's Office that 497 billion dollars has been submitted to the Public Contraction Agency in Turkey. There are so many unreported tenders, my friends, that when this country's money is spent, no one is aware of it, the tenders that have not been reported to the Public Contracting Agency, and for example, we've passed a law like this on Turkish Coal Management, and we think we've cleared it for the distribution of coal to poor families, or because it's become a habit of the institution. Look, page 58 says that they didn't bid for 18 million dollars in rubber purchases, so they didn't bid for 18 trillion in tire purchases. That's a crime. It's also a crime to buy 18 million pounds of rubber, as you forgive it with that substance, because when you give the institution that courage, the institutions begin to move forward. However, you, for example... And there's another side to it, dear friends. Sixty-year-old women are being held in a cell today on charges of tampering with the tender when a firm in İzmir Metropolitan Municipality comes to collect the tender, to receive the presumption for the open tender, because they were shouldered by the workers. If law enforcement starts to change between people, especially parties, if justice is eliminated in that country, we will all suffer from it, dear friends. What we need to do now is, perhaps all lawmakers need to know on the conscience of this law before it's all voted out, that with the previous provisions of this law and the clauses of this law, financial discipline will be broken in this country, we will unfairly pass on tax on to certain businessmen in this country, from the milk money of their young children, from the milk money of their martyr children. Of course, you rely heavily on your own party and your own power, and he does not do such things. We're an honest party. You say that, but remember that the MPs of the parties you sent to the Supreme Court had the same idea. When all of this comes to free discussion, the actual reflections of all of this in the field, I don't mean to break it in the documents, but I can't find any other expression -- when the reflections come to you, I'm afraid that perhaps you will have a chance to be the silent partners of these abuses. For him, I believe that in such cases, for my party, we should think of it as patriotic, patriotic people, leaving aside our party's party-party membership in our municipalities, for your party. I wish we had a chance to be tested like this. Maybe I think we'll set an example of bad or good by not being able to do it or doing it. But if we all look together with this conscience, maybe the national income in this country will be five times what it is now, maybe there won't be any tense discussions today, maybe we'll have a more peaceful, peaceful life. I thank you so much for listening to me. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0133par0299	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group, Van MP Nazmi Gür... First word for the individuals, Antalya MP Menderes Tevfik Türel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0134par0304	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the most precious MPs, and first of all, I wish God's mercy and patience to our fallen police officers on Mount Cudi. I wish you all the best and the best of luck to our country and to our nation.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0135par0308	Erzurum MP Genghis Yavilioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0136par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the bill of law number 194. I salute you all. I'm just going to say that one of the big problems with the public is that even though there's a lot of projects, there's not enough resources. So there's an important stockpile of projects in the Development Ministry, we're talking about thousands of projects, but because there are not enough resources, these projects are not practical. These projects, which exist with this proposal, are intended to be completed through executive ministries or public institutions and institutions. We need funding so that our people can get the services they deserve quickly. An important way to close this gap is public-private businesses. With this offer, this path is made easier, the path to this service is opened. I'd like to thank the friends who made this offer. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0137par0318	Thank you, Mr. Yavilioğlu. Moving on to QA. Mr. Serindağ...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0138par0321	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary a question with your intervention. When will we travel by fast train from Ankara to Gaziantep? That's my first question. My second question: do you have a high-speed train project between Adana-Gaziantep-Halep? My third question: When do you intend to remove the Public Contraction Law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0139par0327	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0140par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, Alexander's Harbor has been privatized. After privatisation, cargo traffic in this port is expected to increase, but Alexander's environment is full, it's impossible to expand the organised industrial area, it's looking for iron steel sectors, it can't find them. The port of Alexanderun, a truly important opportunity, can make the eastern Mediterranean Gulf, along with the port of Mersin, a major commercial and industrial center in the region, even the world. Do you have a project at this point? In the name of Mersin and Adana and Hatay, the answer to that question lies in the name of our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0141par0331	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0142par0332	Mr. Secretary, you're talking about logistics villages; you're not talking about -- you're saying that you've built logistic villages all over the books. A logistical village is also in my town, in the middle of Cartepe, in Köseköy. Cartepe became a new district, was merged into ten towns, and in the middle, it became a logistics base in its center, it became a village. There are also three organised industrial areas around it, the Alicahian Organised Industrial District, the Asim Gently Organised Industrial Zone, the Arslanbey Organised Industrial Zone. In order to draw a railway line to one of these, you have to pull a railway line over the houses, over the apartments. Well, what kind of logic is that to build logistical villages in the center of the city? There's not much connection to the sea, you have to use the inner city, and you have to use Izmit. To carry cargo to the Port of Deep. That's where you'll run the roller coaster. You'll also provide logistics, you'll also run the fast train, you'll also run the suburban trains, but I know that physics is being studied from the mountains for the fast train. Isn't it a sin to invest so much, it's the same again...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0141par0335	Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0143par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a warrant and a fee schedule under the road transport regulations, according to transport activity and the type of vehicle. What's the income that's been made over the years under this tariff? On the other hand, the tariff is a heavy burden for the driver's trade, which is already under heavy economic prices. Do you plan on lowering these tariffs, lowering prices, starting at $4,5,000 for village vans, for truckers up to 15 or 20 grand? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0144par0340	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0145par0341	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: in 1980, in 2000, and in 2010, there's data in railway transport. The number of passenger transports has been reduced from 4.1 to 1.5. In freight transport, it has been cut in half from 10.6 to 5.3. According to data from 1980, 2000 and 2010. Mr. Secretary, both the numbers are falling and the freight transport and the passenger transport, meanwhile, very serious investments of the State Railways. Why can't we project these investments into these numbers? That's my first question. My second question is, in this decade, in the last ten years, how much damage has been done to the State Railways?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0146par0345	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0147par0346	Thank you, Mr. President. I asked the Minister two or three questions in the last article. One is whether the road between Tunceli-Ovacik and Ilic will be built. And about Pertek Bridge, is there any information on how much the bridge costs? And unfortunately, having a long-term district manager on the road, Elazıg, is a way to prevent healthy distribution of services. I'd like to ask your opinion on that, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0148par0351	Mr. Secretary, please. Mr. President, I'll start with Mr. Young. Tunceli-Ovacık, part of the road between Ilic and Ovacık, which came down from there to Ilic, is not in the network of highways. We'll have completed the 5km section on the other part of the Tunceli-Palwood section and completed the other part by the end of 2012. The Nazimiye-Dallibahçe road was taken care of as you know in 2011.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0147par0353	He hasn't been taken care of. We will start project work this year to improve the standard of this road and to bring it to the A1 standard. Instead of the Pertek Bridge, we're still working on an alternate bridge and a route. Mr. Sugar, I'd like to point out that, frankly, you're talking about a proportional reduction in transport, which is partly true, partly not true. But I'll tell you this, though the rate of transport has been reduced, there's been an increase in transport. I just told you, there were 13 million on the railroads, up to 24 million. There's an increase in roads, and aviation has already increased. Why aren't the investments reflected in the transport? During the investments, the road was particularly forced to be blocked on the railways, so there was a particular reduction in passenger transport, but we made up for it by a high-speed train. Six million passengers have been moved to the Eskişehir-Ankara and Iconia-Ankara line, just two. When the number of these lines increases... of course, the public damage on the railways over the last decade is 7.23 billion TL. Compared to the previous decade, there's a 45% reduction in prices today. Of course, some of these damages, since investments are being made, the damages appear in the house of loss. Our next question, Mr. Serindağ, is the Gaziantep-Halep Railroad Project...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0149par0358	The Gaziantep-Adana railway. But its nature was not begun because of the turmoil in Syria. I'd like to point out that Turkey's Grand National Assembly is making the laws, and the setbacks in the implementation, according to the needs, of course, the laws are being revised, amended. Shutting down the Public Contraction Agency is not going to solve anything. Surely, in any institution, the wrong-doers, Turkey, a state of law, have to answer, we have to answer, and bureaucrats have to answer for what they did. Alexander's Harbor... of course their cargo will increase. We know about the congestion in that area, especially in the production centers behind the port, so we started to work on a project to cross the Hassa region from the Toros, so we aim to build the logistic field further north. His question about the Köseköy Logistics Center... This Köseköy has already been used as an actual logistical center. What we do here is we make an arrangement to meet the needs of developing trade and industry in the region and to increase the efficiency of transport. So you've said, this is the most suitable area near the OSB. All experts say that the Köseköy logistics centre would be the best solution. Mr. Turkoglu... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will answer the remaining questions in writing.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0150par0366	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, there are two motions on the matter. I'm going to read these proposals of the same nature, and I'm going to process them together. If they demand it, I'll make a separate commitment to the motion holders or have them read their alibis. Now I'm going to read the same motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the release of Article 6 of the proposed law proposal from the proposal text. The signatures of the other motion are: Does the commission agree with the motions?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0151par0373	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0150par0374	Does the government agree? We don't agree, Mr. President. Now, I'll have BDP read the reason, and then I'll make a promise to Mr. Yeniçeri. Since public resources will be used in partisans and unsupervised, the substance is intended to be removed. Mr. Yeniçeri, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Let's hear it for the skinny one this time, Hodja.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0152par0382	They're tired.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0150par0383	So are we.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0152par0384	Mr. President, I've taken a vow to change the Law and Public Relations Act and to replace Article 6 of the Law and to remove the Article 6 of the Law. I salute you all. Four times the maximum amount of service allowance for service is a service tender. Let's review this statement first: below the top four times the maximum limit is a service tender. What is the upper limit? Where does 4 times that reach? Why isn't it tripled or 14 times 4? Who and how does he decide the floors and the folds? What's his escort? Everything's in limbo. Now, from here, it's up to us to say, if you're going to tender the contract, just say so. There's no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, no point, Let's put the upper limit behind this law and how many times it's worth of calculations we'll do the bidding in any way we want without any legal constraints. Tell us so we can understand what's going on. Look at the proposal in the law: the upper limit points to the bottom of a fourfold tender. Get out if you can. Even though this text is considered to be well - intentioned, the way it pens is complex, inexplicable, and troubled. A law text can only be written so badly. It seems that the authors of this material have accomplished the task of making what everyone understands something that no one can understand; it's important to celebrate! However, a general arrangement of the tender law is another weirdo for a proposal that regulates special incentives and exceptions for investments and tenders. I'd like to remind everyone here that those who use authority for the public should be most sensitive to trade, tenders, and intellectuals. The tenders made for the public should be too clear and clear to include doubt and doubt. The tenders with closed circuit and a complex system are always questionable. There shouldn't be a rumor in the contract, not a playful, corrupt and prudence. It's worse than that. However, after almost every public tender, it is important to focus on objections, rumors, lawsuits and investigations. Complaints about tenders, whining, complaining are all over the sky. Of course, the contract of a law that has such a problem with its text should be considered questionable. Complainings of corruption, looting, favours and injustice in Turkey today have arrived, as I have just said. Since complaints and complaints are related to domesticity, public and so on, the power elite of power pretend to respond to this with a counter-crime, and they're shutting it down. Honorable lawmakers, those who claim to be at the disposal of the divine, the moral, are often at the disposal of the worldly. In order to acquire material, the number of compromisers from spiritual values is increasing. Only alcohol doesn't get people drunk, and power does. The intoxication of power -- needless to say -- is an incurable disease. The owners of power are like people who drink salt water, but the more they drink, the more they drink, the more they drink, the more they drink, the more they drink, the more they drink. (Applause from MHP rows) The fateful outcome is the system's failure and collapse. The Grand Prophet ▪ Draw near to sin as close as you can to the fire. I would like to remind the ruling elite that in order for the subject not to go the other way, he must get as close to the tender law as he can get to the fire. In the great Quran, let those who do not have the power, those who think about children, fear that they may wrong the orphans, and fear that they may not be able to do so. And from here, I remind you once again that this concept of law enforcement that puts the tender between the two lips of power must be abandoned, and I pay tribute to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0153par0392	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0154par0393	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit02spe0153par0394	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0153par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 82nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision to vote on amendment proposals on Article 6 of the Law Proposal No. 194 was not enough. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motions... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal No. 194. Commission? Here. Government? Here. MADDE 7- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles Eskişehir...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0155par0011	We won't talk.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0153par0013	Okay. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoglu, the Kayseri MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0156par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I strongly curse the enemies of the country who terrorize and turn the place into a war zone, primarily because of the neurosis. The six police officers who lost their lives remember our security guards with mercy -- patience for their families, condolences for the Turkish nation. We're discussing the Law and the Law Proposal for Changes in the Law on Adding Value Taxes and Making Some Investigation and Services in the Framework of Adminism and Public Relations. Dear lawmakers, imagine that laws passed in a country are being changed for some parts or individuals, and privileges are granted to some parts and individuals. Can you call such a state a state of law, can you call it a state of constitutional equality? How many laws have you taken out of your contract law? You are attempting to lift the Law on the Transformation of the Lands Under Disasters, which you brought to Parliament just last week. IN ALL the operations taken by the TOSI (TİKİ), it is known that the tender law has not already been implemented. In the law you are making today, you are removing the implementation of both the VAT and the Public Contraction Law. I mean, you're making decisions that don't have the rights, the law and justice that make the state a state. I mean, you make rules and laws in your own way, or some of your men's sons. On the other hand, you apply VAT to the poor poor's bread, the book of knowledge of the people and youth, but you don't apply VAT or VAT to the diamond. How much do people need diamonds? Is the diamond the basic ingredient of the people's needs? Yeah, well, our people can't live without diamonds! Whose pockets are you filling, who are you making rich? You adopted the State Contraction Act in 2003. Meanwhile, you put the Turkish Historical Foundation's printing press with its own resources and money into this tender law. You've made it possible for all of your employees to close down in the tender Act, which is fully commercial and fully paid for by the Turkish Historical Foundation, which, in the meantime, is not a burden on the state, but is able to print 80,000 volumes of books a day. Whose bread have you buttered with this? Whose request did you close the national education books to the printing press, which is half cheaper than other printers? How will you pay the price for leaving such a large-capacity printing press to rot now, even though it has no burden on the state?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0157par0021	You were supposed to say it while you were working!
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0156par0022	I told you 50 times when I was working on that date, and I've been here 50 times, and I've applied for it, but listen to what it's for.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0157par0023	Why didn't you tell me that day?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0156par0024	How is it that today, despite all efforts and initiatives, you refuse to accept a tender to comply with the EU acquistion, and you have stated that you must remain faithful to the tender Act? And you didn't set up a public auction? There's been so much work you've given away to the tender, that the existence of this institution has become practically unnecessary. If you're going to do all the bidding, at least keep the courage, remove the freakish contract law and relax, and we won't have to participate in your crime. However, the purpose of the new Public Contraction Act 4734, which you have recently issued, is to ensure that such relations, such as the sale of goods and services in public and outside the country, are carried out in accordance with a specific order. As a special reflection of the management process, the tender is set up as a way to ensure that the public's needs are met in the best possible way. In this way, the administration, which often avoids facing individuals by doing one-sided procedures, appears to be aimed at maintaining its activities within a specific system, thus reaching its goal of reliable and transparent management. But were all those things not true? What rules will those who will make the tender do the work that is essential to the contract do the work without the law? If such practices are to be completed, shouldn't Law 4734 be required? Why have many changes been made after the Law was passed?
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0158par0028	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0156par0029	And I thank you, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0158par0031	On behalf of groups above Article 7, I have received information that we had a friend on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group; that you withdrew; that they were on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group; that they were not there, so that they were not on behalf of the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0159par0032	Ours was on behalf of the group, and Mr. Halaçoglu was on behalf of the group, sir, to see if the law would be over...
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0158par0033	No, since it's not, Mr. Halaçoglu also had a request to speak on behalf of the individuals in front of me, written before me.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0160par0034	It wasn't for the individuals, I was prepared for it in ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0158par0035	That's why I read it because it was written that way. Now, on behalf of their members, Mr. Abdullah Nejat Koçer of Gaziantep. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0161par0039	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. To the martyrs we lost in the fight against terrorism of our security forces, I wish you God's mercy and my condolences to our nation. I salute your high council with the best of luck in the law.
tbmm-2012-03-22sit03spe0162par0043	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. It is Tuesday (March 27th), 2012, at 15 p.m., to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision made by verbal question motions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
