tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is from İzmir MP Erdal Aksunger, who wants to talk about the problems of the IT sector in Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0002par0014	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the problems of the IT sector in Turkey. I salute you all with respect and love. I'd like to bring up something very important about IT, dear friends. I'm going to give you some very serious information about the Pardus Project, which started in Turkey in 1999 and changed its name in 2001, and I'm going to try to tell you about some of its threats. There's a very important topic in the world called free software, which is the subject of the nation's national operating systems and so on. This was considered very seriously in our country in 1999, and in 2001 a serious study was launched in TÜBİTİTAK to produce a system of national operating systems called Pardus. But in the meantime, I'll tell you what happened to this Pardus TÜBITAK. IN 2001, TÜBITAK took a step towards our national operating system by taking 20 to 25 friends into the private sector. By 2009, this issue has been pushed aside to be put on the shelf, which has not been put into a national policy by the current government, even though it has revealed the world's threats as well as what we should have done. When this structure began in 2001, it was one of the largest, most serious, rising operating systems in the world, and it was a very valuable subject. Maybe it was the first 10 percent of the world's operating sites that were downloaded, but when we got to 2005, the work began to be forgotten, and it's now in the process of being put on the shelf. IN TÜBITAK, most of these friends have been purged. What is it, Pardus? Today, our country is in the hands of American, British and Irish Israeli software. When Pardus was activated that day, he was activated in the country's public institutions, military institutions, finances, national education. But why did no one bring up why it failed, or why did it fail? I'll tell you something very simple. There was a project that the Ministry of National Education launched four years ago to be implemented in all schools. He wanted to move all the schools to the digital platform. Just before the tender process, Bill Gates, the world president of Microsoft, whom you knew so closely, came to Turkey in a hurry and met with our Prime Minister. After this meeting, American software was again used on the national educational project. From that day on, Pardus had to be completely put on the shelf. So why did this story fail? Why is this international software so serious in our country? There are two reasons: Either someone's being pushed under serious pressure or someone's getting a kick out of it. When he comes to universities about a Microsoft program, if he's selling a program to an individual user, a home user for $100, he's giving it to our universities and schools for free or trying to sell it for $3. What's the reason for this? Whatever program you get the kids into, they're trying to create a real life after that. This is a serious threat. The country's security is completely handed over to American companies along with these software. Dear friends, it's a very important matter. We're talking about our national security. Our Turkish Armed Forces are trying to use original software, but unless it's state policy, we're not going to be able to pull this off. We have to make our first agenda. Please take this seriously, this is a very important matter. Remember that all the computers you use in Turkey today, all the digital data you use, all the devices that send anywhere, are being copied somewhere along with American software or Israeli software.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0002par0026	Mr. President, I thank you all very much, very much.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0003par0028	The second out-of-date statement belongs to Mehmet Erdogan, an MP who asked for a comment on the floods caused by heavy rains in the district of Mugla. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0004par0032	Mr. President, I have taken a stand outside the agenda of the damage sustained since Saturday (January 7, 2012) in the districts of Mugla and the provinces. I hereby salute your high council. First of all, I wish my condolences to all our citizens, who have suffered from storms, extreme rains, and floods, which have been going on in the last days, especially in Mugla, Antalya, and Denizli, and I hope that my great Mevla will protect our country and our nation from all kinds of disasters. I also want to thank all of our public officials and municipalities who have been working selflessly during this disaster, and wish them the continued success of their work. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, due to the storms and rains that have been going on since January 7th, there has been serious damage to our district of Ula and Bodrum, particularly our village district. As a result of the flood of Kargacak Creek in Kırgız district, the district has suffered serious damage to the district, Balcıer, Hamitköy, Döğüşbelen, Çağdir villages, and our producers in Topar Beldesı, our citizens. Thousands of acres of citrus and pomegranate gardens and many greenhouses were flooded. Ula district Kıyra, Kavaçeli, Beekeepers, Yeşilova, Sarayanı and Turgut villages have suffered serious damage. There has been significant damage to the greenhouses as a result of floods of water in the Çaltüru and other villages of our Fethiye district. A significant portion of the damaged land in our region is outside the scope of agricultural insurance. Because a significant portion of the farmland in the region that was damaged by this disaster is 2/B land. Because the 2/B issue is not resolved, agricultural land in this region cannot be covered by agricultural insurance. Our farmers are using their land to pay for it. Thus, our citizens are much more affected by this disaster. Because of this disaster this year, our producers, who will not be able to make any money from their product, will both pay their mortgages and pay their loans. This requires that our farmers' loans and loans be delayed without interest. As soon as our municipalities are compensated for the damage, it will help our citizens in the region to receive better municipal services. From now on, it is important to repair rivers and teas that pose a danger, especially Kargacak Tea, so that our region will suffer less damage from such a disaster. In addition, the reform work of Tersakan Creek must be completed urgently so that the disaster in the village will not take place in the future in our Dalaman district. Again, it is important that the roads damaged in our territory be restored as soon as possible. However, the immediate damage to roads and bridges is a clear sign that your government does not show the necessary care when the roads and bridges are being made. In particular, it is thought that the bridge's connections to the divided road over Namnam Tea have been damaged. The government, as said after 2002, would not have been able to pass through Namnam Tea, had it not been for the bridge prior to 2002, as in this example. I'd like to remind you of that on this occasion. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, the county of Mugla is our longest coastal province. Many of the newly built marinas and shelters on our shores are made by the private sector, and small fishermen and small boat owners cannot benefit from it. In this regard, it is important to build new shelters and ports by the government. Again, more than 90 per cent of the pine honey produced in Turkey is produced in the district of Mugla. Our mugular beekeepers perform at least half the traveling beekeeping in our country. In these recent rains, over 10,000 bee hives have been damaged throughout our county. It is also important that the victims of our manufacturers, who provide for their livelihood from beekeeping, be removed immediately. It is important that there is no need for separate arrangements for each disaster by enforcing a law on the removal of the victims of natural disasters. I hereby greet all our fellow citizens with the warmest wish of all time, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0005par0042	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Veysel Eroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Eroglu.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0006par0046	Mr. President, I stand before you to respond to the speech of Mr. Mehmet Erdogan of the MP of MHP Muğla on the outside of the agenda of the floods caused by heavy rains in Muğla. I salute you all, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, sir, first of all, I want to say that we've had a hard time with the heavy rains that have begun Friday, Friday, and Sunday, as you know in Edirne, Antalya, but, of course, I'd like to say to all of our citizens there to get over it. The joy of it is that there was no particular loss of life. Hopefully, I will begin by asking the Lord to protect our country, our nation, from such disasters again. Honored lawmakers, first of all, we said on Friday -- and here are the records -- that at 4:36 p.m. on Friday (January 6th), there would be a huge storm and a massive rainstorm starting Saturday morning. The necessary measures have been taken. Of course, sometimes when disaster is large, people are powerless at some point. But I'd like to point out that there really has been so much rain that, for example, what our Congressman meant was that in 48 hours, the square meter was 201.6 millimeters, or 201.6 kilograms per square meter of rain. Look, considering the average rain in Turkey is 643 millimeters, it means that almost one third of the rain in Turkey has rained in 48 hours. We've been through a great deal of trouble, but I must say that, of course, I and the members of my ministry, and other public institutions and organizations, are being closely monitored in these rains. In fact, I came to understand the matter in person on Sunday, and in the end, by calling Mr. Mugla Governor, we gave instructions to the DSI, and soon, as our governor knows, all the teams were there, and the necessary work was done. In the meantime, of course, we know that, as our lawmakers say, there are some citrus gardens, farmland and the loss of beekeepers. We're already doing damage assessments by the governor, but let me tell you about the beekeepers: We're fully supportive of beekeeping as the Ministry. In fact, as you know, the beekeepers have never even been brought into the woods before, but I have fully supported the beekeepers as the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs in a 16-page sentence. In some seasons, they want to go somewhere else. In fact, we've built 101 honey forests so they can conduct their beekeeping work comfortably, so we've opened the way for beekeepers. Of course, we'll take care of whatever their damage is, but I'll make it clear that the capacity of Dalman Tea there, especially in the prevention of the extremities in Aydın (Edirne) and Edirne (Especially in Mugla), you know, the Akköru Dam that we opened in May, has been very useful because its capacity is only up to 400-500 cubic meters/seconds per second. As you know, if this dam hadn't been built, which we'd have completely kept water in the dam, we'd have given it controlled water, so that the settlements around Dalaman, even the airport, around Dalaman Tea would have been completely underwater, and there would have been huge damage. So, in fact, this is the Akközu Dam in Dalaman, which is Turkey's 6th largest dam, the largest dam in the Aegean region -- averted this disaster. I'd like to stress that in particular. You know, we did it for Dalama, and it was really helpful. Only the height of this dam is 162.5 meters from the base, the capacity to collect water, called the reservoir volume, is 384 million cubic meters. This really prevented the disaster greatly. Just see if it's there, where we, our Prime Minister, opened the Adnan Menderes Dam in China, which we opened with our lucky hands -- on 10/10/10/10 -- in particular, it prevented the great disaster in the Plains of Aydın, Cogar, Kocharli and Söke, because we kept the rains in China in the Adnan Møres Dam. I'd like to mention that in particular. Other than that, we especially thank those who have done it before, the Belt Dam in the past 1958 has actually prevented disaster. I'd like to emphasize that here in particular. But what are we doing about it? Congressman, of course, if there are some river reforms missing, we'll do them, but I'm proud to say that, in the time of our government, there have been some really great investments made to Mudla, and you know it. For example, only our Ministry has invested 865 million TL, just for Muğla, for example, for eight and a half years. Look, we've finished the Bayir Dam, the waterworks, the Akgedik Dam, they're all finished, here, Dalaman Akköru Dam. There was no water in the basement peninsula, and to give water to the basement peninsula, the treatment facilities, the lines, the warehouses, the promotion centers, all of them were done, even opened. Also, the river reforms of the side streams in Eşen Çayı, Muğla Köğars are overprotected, Fethiye Göcek settlements are overcrowded, the protection of Karadere in Fethiyeyah, and Kumluova's provinces are complete. Other than that, the settlements of the Akçay Creek and Eşen Tea are completed in Fethiye. There's some activity going on right now, and we're going to finish these things quickly. The watering of the Akgedik Dam continues to build a project. Also, you know, we've laid the foundation of the Deep Dam, and hopefully we'll get it done very soon.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0007par0054	Mr. Secretary, what about the victims of the manufacturers?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0006par0055	So as a result, I'd like to say that I've taken note of the creeks you're talking about here, and all the streams that are missing will be reformed. I've already given instructions. The DSI teams were all there. In fact, about 200 people and a lot of equipment -- I can tell you the number -- were all there -- from the moment the flood, they had it under control. Hopefully it won't happen again, but especially in this case, the municipalities are taking on a very important task because most of the time, when they occupy the creek beds, they provide the wrong kind of vents and some kind of portals. So I'm particularly warning our municipalities here that in this regard, the river beds are not allowed to be closed, narrowed down, and our Prime Minister has strict instructions and regulations. We should all be especially prepared for these outbursts because the regime in the rains has changed completely due to global climate change. In certain months, when there has been a regular rain in the past, we look at it, in forty-eight hours, as in Giresun, as in Edirne, as in Marmaris, in a short period of time, there can be great rains, great floods. Therefore, the necessary measures are essential. It's not just the river reforms. In this regard, we deal with some of the collection structures in the stream, dams, ponds, and also the gardening work for erosion control, mera corrections, collectively. And that's why we always make an evaluation every Christmas. Hopefully, I'll keep an eye on the river reforms that you have requested. May God never show us such disasters again. I salute you all with these feelings, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP İlhan Demirözış, who asked for a statement about the damage and difficulties of the olive producer, which emerged from climate reasons in the province of Bursa. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our fellow citizens watching us on television with respect and love. The symbol of peace, fertility, health, and immortality, the sacred tree, the olive, has been in the service of mankind for six thousand years. It grows in a narrow part of the world. Our country is one of the lucky countries where olives can grow. Olivery is the livelihood of about 500,000 families in Turkey, which constitutes 3.5 per cent of the processed farmland. The production of olives is as important in our country as it is in the world as it is in health care, employment and market production in other industrial arms. Directly and indirectly, it's important to provide for 10 million people in agricultural and socioeconomic terms. Dear MPs, I'd like to come to Bursa. There are over 10 million olive trees in our scholarship. In Turkey, one of the 10 olive trees is in Bursa. In Bursa, the olive production recital took place around 160,000 tonnes in 2011 and 2012, but the olive producer is in a difficult position. It's a pleasure to see that it's high, but this year the olive harvest has been delayed. In November 2011, the temperature change and snowfall in the hills caused the olive to lose quality and weight due to temperature differences in the night and day. This quality and weight loss has also been identified by the county agricultural directorates. There have been 70 per cent loss of quality and 30 per cent loss of weight. Dear friends, for this reason, the price of 1 kilogram of olives is 2.10 TL, in action from the head of the Marmarabilism. The cost of producing 1 kilogram of olives under the light of our Orhangazi Agriculture Room is 2.58 TL. Considering that the increase in diesel is 42 per cent, 85 per cent increase in base fertilizer, we will be able to understand that the olive producers in our scholarship are in trouble. The institution I want to address, the institution I want to get your attention from is the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Mr. Secretary and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, in light of our talks with the president and his members, Mr. Secretary, will you provide bonus support for the table olives? Are you determined not to apply support for the tabled olives proposed by the 23rd-century lawmakers in their research commission report as a result of a research motion? Why do you withhold the support of olive oil from the table olives? Number two: The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism is supporting us on the basin. If they say, "What will be supported if the olives are not supported in the South Marvara basin, which is also owned by Bursa?" We want to know what it means to support wheat and cotton in this region. Third: Would you not consider paying the losses and losses of the olive producer, who lost the table olives and oiled them as a temporary solution? Believe me, the manufacturer will be pleased to know that even though you failed to make all payment for the damage done during the flower season in 2010, as of today's date, you were considered a disaster. Given the loss of olive producers, there is still no definitive conclusion that you have begun to delay debts to the Agriculture Bank, the People's Bank and the agricultural loan co-ops. The manufacturers are waiting for the final conclusion of the rapid process. How do you feel about the loss of underwear, quality, and weight due to weather conditions being covered by agricultural insurance? Mr. Secretary, according to the Law on Agriculture, which was legalized in 2006, you owe the farmer 20 billion dollars from 2007-2011, isn't it possible for you to repay that debt to the Bursa olive producer? With all due respect, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0010par0079	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0011par0081	Mr. President, I have a question for the Minister.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0010par0082	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0011par0085	Sir, when it comes to olives, the olive producer is a large majority in the Balıkesir region. The government supports sunflowers, and the olive supports olive oil. Is there any way that the Ministry of the Ministry can work on supporting olives per kilo?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0010par0086	Thank you, Mr. Cloud. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. There are presentations to the General Board of Directors. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the Constitution shall open Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the 98th Amendments and 105th Amendments in order to minimise the effects of the flood disasters in Turkey, identify areas of flood risk to prevent losses and deaths, and to determine areas of settlements and economic activities to be selected accordingly. 13.10.2011 Floods are at the beginning of natural disasters in Turkey. The flood, caused by significant loss of lives and goods for different reasons, is becoming a disaster of great economic loss and suffering, which is becoming more effective in Turkey's rapidly changing and developing social, economic structure. During natural disasters in Turkey, the flood is the event of the biggest loss of lives and property since the earthquake. The economic loss of this disaster is estimated to be around 160 trillion Turkish liras each year. Lastly, six of our citizens lost their lives in the flood in Antalya a few days ago, many bridges, roads, and houses have suffered major damage. According to meteorological Regional Forecasting Centre officials, the amount of rain dropped to the square meter in 24 hours has reached 300 kilograms, and the wind has now reached up to 80km per hour. And that makes it pretty clear what a terrible situation we're facing. When we look at the efforts to prevent the flood and avoid accident damage, it is not possible to draw a positive picture of economic losses as well as deaths. Given Turkey's rapid and warped population, we can clearly see that we have no escape from the floods. Because rapid population growth, unhealthy urbanization, new roads are being opened in these settlements, land structures are being changed, forests and mera are being destroyed. It is thus an invitation to disaster. Given the use of land in Turkey, from early times to present, a large portion of natural vegetation, particularly forests, has been destroyed. Since vegetation has become uncultivable due to slopes and erosion in areas that have been destroyed, the slopes, which have also become poorer in plant direction, have become a contributing factor in the formation of floods. In order to prevent possible life and property losses due to floods, Turkey's detailed flood map must be set up to determine areas where floods are likely and to take necessary measures. [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Pain]] [[Adana]] 6) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 8th person who made significant attempts to resolve the Kurdish problem. In addition to President Turgut Ozal, former Finance Minister, İstanbul MP Adnan Caffeci and former Brigadier General Eşref Bitlis, we would like to investigate and propose the opening of Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to be investigated and illuminated in all aspects of the link between the suspicious death and the subsequent deaths. 13.10.2011 1993 remains a black year in our memory. In the period when the Kurdish problem was tried to be resolved and the efforts of then President Turgut Ozal began to sprout, there were three cases that we could call suspicious deaths. The first link of the suspected killing chain occurred on January 17, 1993, and was killed by the crash of the then General General Eşref Bitlis. A few days later, Istanbul MP Adnan Coffeeci also lost their lives in a car accident with his wife and children on February 5, 1993. Finally, the killings included the sudden death of President Turgut Ozal from his heart on April 17, 1993. 8. President Turgut Özal made significant attempts to resolve the Kurdish problem, bringing the report to the agenda of the MGK in 1992, by drafting a report on the matter of Prime Minister Kaya Toperi and First Officer Colonel Arslan Güner. He stated that the problem must be dealt with and that military methods cannot be dealt with. At the same time, Adnan was eight by the Coffee Shop and Ashraf Bitlis. "The Kurdish problem has now become the crisis that locks political life. In order to get out of the crisis, Kurdish identity and language must be accepted quickly and have the opportunity to represent in the political field." Bitlis reported the names of 28 government officials who received a runt from the conflict and reported that they were gradually removed from the region. So Ozal asked the Coffee Shop and Bitlis to make a new joint report. In December 1992, they both met and began a new report. The report ruled on the political and economic aspect of the work, and on the security dimension of Eşref Bitlis, and on the cultural and social aspect, to consult Turgut Özal and to finish the report within 3-5 months. But they didn't live long enough to complete the report, so in two months' time, they died first, Eşref Bitlis, then Adnan Coffee Shop, which was considered a suspect. 8. When President Turgut died in Ozal, the report did not appear in the state archives. According to the statements of the late President Turgut Özal's family, the autopsy was not performed despite all insistence, but found that he had been poisoned in the study of hair and blood samples sent to the United States, and was applied to the Hacettepe Hospital to examine them, saying that the hospital broke a vial of a nurse's blood samples. In all accounts, it is evident that there were great doubts about the death of the deceased, Turgut Ozal, just like the two accidents. These suspicious deaths that occurred during this conflict in the Kurdish problem stand before Turkey as facts that need to be illuminated. We believe it is necessary to establish a Parliamentary Research Commission to investigate and enlighten these events, which we can call assassination. [[Mwah.]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 6-Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14-Serra Sırrıyya Leader [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the case of unsolved murders in JITEM and the East/Southeast region, we demand and demand that a parliamentary investigation be conducted under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in accordance with Article 98 of the Constitution, and 105 of the Constitution. A group called JITEM has been seen operating within the gendarmes to coordinate the deployment and management of special teams, as noted in the report of the thirst. Without the knowledge of the Khaalli gendarme, he did significant work in the area during the State of Emergency during the time of the State of Emergency. Major A. Although the existence of JITEM, which was founded by Cem Ersever, was denied by soldiers and civilians, rangers, confessors, spies, many illegal activities, it is said to have been removed, purged, and his personnel have been distributed to other units, its presence and influence remains. These areas are obliged to investigate their activities in the rural area as a result of their ability to act effectively and freely, become increasingly out of office, and the tolerance and protection of those who commit crimes within them. As a result of these practices, the Kurdish problem was unresolved due to the rise of the conflicting process, but the problem became more severe. In the past period, Turkey has caused billions of pounds of economic loss and 40,000 deaths. The loss of human beings that could not be returned has marred the hearts of thousands of families, extinguished the furnaces. The most painful of these losses is that even the bodies of those who were killed in the unsolved murders were not given to their families. The perpetrators of political murders since 1990 have not been found or tried. In certain times, the testimony of those involved in the murders has not been carried out with a fair trial, nor has the trial begun with the trial of Susurlik. Many cases have either resulted in "disobedience" or "timeout." As a result of appeals to AHIM on some of the missing persons, Turkey has been convicted of "immitting rights of life" in many cases. Susurity has gained a new dimension through the investigation into Ergenekon, which has begun with the Şemdinian events. In all these investigations, there have been significant statements from the confessionals that the people who were tried were also responsible for the unsolved murders, as well as the investigations carried out by prosecutors. Many killed by JITEM were buried after being burned with acid in the 1990s at BOTAS facilities within the province's administrative borders. In the declarations, "... The locations used by JİTEMCI were here, as a clear address, as they went to the Habur border gate, the former district of Mardin was located on the left side of Cizre near the border, and the soldiers were guarding it. It's said that if you dig in there, there'll be a lot of bodies. As a matter of fact, in the statements of Abdulkadir Aygan, who was involved in the unsolved murders in the region at that time, both Ahmet Cem Ersever, the founder of JITEM, was also listed as the address of the BOTAS facilities. On 25 January 2001, HaDEP Silopi District President Serdar Aşta and his deputy, Abubekir Deniz, were detained, lost by the gendarmes, the case was reflected in the EİHM and Turkey was convicted. As it is known, in the 1990s, thousands of unsolved murders have been committed and investigations have led to the bodies of many victims of unsolved murders. However, as these murders have not been illuminated, the investigations launched have not been deepened for some reason. Şırnak Bar Association has asked the People's Prosecutor's Office to investigate the allegations on 01,12,2008. The executions of JITEM's existence, the unsolved murders, then the secret deaths to the execution of its own members, show that there is more public harm than public benefit. Therefore, by establishing a parliamentary research commission, it is mandatory to be the rule of law and the state of law to be investigated. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take their place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes: 12:01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the advisory board on Thursday 12,01,2012 (today), since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 25 October 2011, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Binici and his friends (115 rows) suggested that the Parliament Research Convention be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly in the same history of the meetings and to be read in Thursday's unifications, in order to examine and determine the measures that should be taken by Candy Pancari agriculture and beet producers. In favor of the proposal, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0012par0233	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we were at a symposium organized by the Candy-Work Union this morning, where all the party representatives were there, including the ruling party. And in Turkey, right now, the situation of the sugar factories, the condition of the beet producer, the situation of the agricultural labor force, the condition of the workers, after privatisation, and most importantly, 25 of the sugar factories that will be privatised will be closed; 25 factories and all of them will be profitable. The last factory was on sale on Wednesday, Çorum, Kastamon, Kırşehir, Turhal and Yozgat on 9/11, as you know. Once again, when you look at profit rates, you see a balance sheet around 3-4 billion. Here are the studies of our universities, our academies. In terms of sugar, especially in our country, the situation of starch-based sugar is an oasis of 15 percent of what is commonly called starch-based sugar -- in one word -- because it is about 2% in the countries of the European Union, around 2%. For example, half a percent in France and less than 1% in Germany. Again, you know, there's a particular type of starch-based sugar from genetically modified organisms, GMO, corn. And there's also what we call a high-density sweetener, which is a very important issue that fuels the appetites of foreign companies, and most importantly, when we look at all these data, if we think about the agricultural industry in our country, if we think about the status of the beet makers in our country, if we think about the future of our workers, it would be useful to look at the geography of the 25 percent of these profitable companies, the 25 percent of them, and the 25 factories that have been shut down. It's cruel to close the sugar factory in Ercish, where the Van earthquake hit. The sugar factory in Erciş is next to it, and when we come to Mush, Ağrı, Erzincan, Erzurum again towards the Black Sea, in the interiors, especially Kastamonu, in the interiors, where there are more than 50 percent green cards, here, and here, because of the privatisation of tobacco, there are many places of work, where there are many jobs, where there are farm-based economies, and in the eastern region, where more than 50 percent of them are green-carded areas, here, and there are now closed down, after the factory, after the privatification of the factory, where milk is closed, and now closes down on this day. That's not the kind of thing that's out of the question. Today at the symposium, I noticed that the trade unionists, the academics who came there, whether from Turkish-Ismail, all the experts who came there, were pointing out this disaster, and the debates are being discussed. Closing 25 percent of these sugar factories will not be just a blow to the country's economy, the agricultural industry. Because you've already cut off the beets with quotas, you've been victimizing the manufacturer. And now by shutting them down, from the alpullu factory in Thrace to the Eskişehir factories, until Malatya, you will destroy the thousands of moving families, and the beets makers of all these areas. By the way, Ercish, Mush, because of a very busy winter in the Van region this year, the beet producer couldn't get his product out of the ground, so the product remained in the soil. On top of all that, in such cases, it is the government's duty to take precautions. Now, we're looking at the IMF letter of intent in 2000 when the IMF interfered with the Turkish economy, and it says: "Take Turkish sugarcane and sugar factories on the privatisation agenda." There are still instructions from the IMF in this country. Remember when we were out of debt to the IMF, and the IMF didn't give orders here anymore, and Turkey didn't run it? Look, the IMF's 2,000-year directive is still being carried out by the AK PARTY. It's been ten years... Now, I'm not going to dwell on the court's cancellation decisions, but it's very clear that it's the duty of every party to protect the sugar factories and the future of Turkey, against the NBA lobby, which continues to debate for human health in the world. We're gonna have to look at this through parties, guys. If we look over the parties, we can contribute to the solution to this problem. For this, a two- or three-day symposium is being held today, and Ankara has a duty to parliament, and Parliament must investigate it. What's it gonna take to shut down this place, these 25 sugar mills, what's it gonna take? What about beets? What about the quotas? What about the movers? What about the workers? We need the House to investigate all of this. The mission is ahead of us, which means it's closed down in zobu-politics, folks. In the 21st century, there is no way that the Zübükzadites could continue that cheap period of politics. You know, there was this type of zubukuk politician, who was very easy to trade in faith, and then there was this thing where people, people, Sakarya, trade, and then there were zubukzads. Now, until recently, these Turkish films have played, and Turkish politics must end it. There's no point in every politician in Turkey, no matter his identity, no matter his belief, no matter what his opinion, in this century, especially in Parliament. If so, the common interests of the country will be discussed. If this is being done openly on the floor of parliament, at the highest levels of contempt, contempt, the will of the nation, if it is being contaminated, if this is happening on the live broadcast of politics and Parliament, if it can't talk about the real issues of the country, then there is a mistake, Parliament. Look, the unions went to Poland, where they studied the condition of the same sugar factories. Poland, who had found a solution there, said: "Let's not privatize the factory, let's not close it, let's give it to the beet maker, let's give it to the workers. There's the owner, there's the manufacturers, there's the hard-working turn of beets into sugar, there's a lot of value to Turkey's future. At that time, the beet product, which grows in 80 percent of the land from just east to west of Turkey, north to south, is still watered by 17 percent if it combines with the GAP project...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0013par0243	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0012par0244	He thinks this research motion concerns all of us, and I wish you'd accept it, my friends.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0013par0245	Against the proposal, Kayseri MP Yaşar Karayel. Here you go, Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0014par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the group that the Peace and Democracy Party's beets and beets producers have made to investigate the situation they're in. I salute you. Honourable lawmakers, the issue that our Peace and Democracy Party has brought up here has already been proposed by the Republican People's Party to investigate the same issue, and all the details -- all the details of these issues -- have been reviewed and discussed in this Parliament. Respected lawmakers, when we look at our sugar-producing factories in our country, it's built in 25 public, 8 decent privatised, some of which are now linked to privatisation, 6 decent facilities based on starch-based production. Beet production is a fact that we all know that we have indispensable agricultural products for our country. It's hard and difficult to deal with beet production. I'd like to thank around 200,000 beets farmers who deal with it and produce it and contribute to the country's economy, and the families of these plantations here. In 1997, the number of farmers working on beet production for years has dropped to around 450 thousand in the country, 411,000 in 2000, 347 thousand in 2005, and about 188,000 in 2009. Although the number of crops has fallen, beet production has definitely increased. When we look at the fields that have been planted, our total fields are around 38,000 hectares. Sugar beets continue to value a $3 billion contribution to our country's economy. Every year around 140-150 million tonnes of sugar are produced in the world, which is already one fifth of beets, and the rest of which are made from straws. The amount of sugar on foreign trade in international markets is around 50 million tonnes. Once every four or five years, it is planted in a tropical region, not once but four or five times a year, giving the reed an advantage over sugar beets. There's really little chance of competing in the world's markets with straws. A straw sugar cane is not only very low in cost, but it also determines the world's sugar market prices. Sugar, the world's market prices are one of the most volatile products, and even a fluctuation that reaches 10 per cent per day. Although the world's sugar production was at its lowest levels in 2010 and 2011, there was not much decline in prices. It currently watches around 650-700 tons/dollars. Our country is ranked four percent behind the European Union, the United States and Russia, with a share of around 8 per cent of the world's beet sugar production. In recent years, when food security has become increasingly critical around the world, those who produce sugar from beets, especially those who produce sugar, even if imports are cheaper than domestic prices, are on the road to meeting domestic production of domestic demands. The main purpose of the Sugar Law, which took effect in 2001, is self - competency. It is important that the Candy Corporation, established by the same Law and has a ten-year history, has made arrangements to implement the Candy Law, as well as to ensure that the sector becomes more active, more competitive, more sustainable. The task of the institution is to ensure that the production of beets, beet sugar, and starch-based sugar can be maintained in a balance, to ensure stability and protection of sugar production and prices. It's not true that the quota system in the beet is restricting the production of beet sugar in our country, causing the production of beets to decrease. The sugar production capacity in our country is around 3.1 million tons. It weighs over 4 million tons, one million tons of starch-based sugar. The amount of sugar per person, 21 kilograms/years in the world's 2010-2011 marketing year, is around 25 kilograms in our country. In the last decade, our domestic sugar production average is around 1,800,000 tons. It is also known to everyone that our country's established sugar production capacity is beyond our needs, and that beets sugar is limited to exports, which have no chance of competing with low-cost sugar sugar. It is also evident that sugar production is not sustainable on the level of capacity installed, or on the domestic demand, given the fact that the negative publications related to sugar drive public to reduce sugar consumption. As a result, in the years before the Sugar Act, when beet prices were attractive to manufacturers, the surplus of sugar was created, and in later years, when restrictions were imposed, they had to import sugar by spending huge foreign currency. Another important thing is that because of the quota system, the beet sugar producing the same target market, the starch-based sugar industry is able to provide for our country's needs without harming each other. The first quota allocation of the Candy Law began in 2002-2003 and continues until now. Around 5,000 settlements have produced 18 million tons of beets in 330,000 hectares by 200,000 beet farmers. The highest amount of beet production in the last decade has been reached, and with the guidance of our companies in the production of sugar beets, producers have achieved the highest beet yield in the country's history by combining modern agricultural practices with positive climate conditions. The price of beet sugar producers and beets producers has increased by 2.59 per cent in the last 2010-2011 marketing year, but there has been no change in sugar prices. It is not seen in our country that sugar prices are really falling when the law is finally in effect based on the price of 2003. As a result, today's beets sugar and starch-based sugar -- the raw materials of sugar -- are intended to produce corn in the country. As EC PARTY governments, we will continue to support our agricultural sectors and producers. Members of parliament, the joint work with the Ministry of Economics ensures that sugar-milk manufacturers are replaced by pre-exporting to exports to exporters, and sugar-sacrificing to the Candy Board is also guaranteed exports. Food security has been provided in our country through policies adopted by previous governments, and a balanced growth and competition between beets sugar and starch-based sugar sectors has been maintained. The use of domestic raw materials has been provided, and the unregistered sugar supply has been largely prevented through audits and administrative sanctions; a process has been established that meets the interests of transparent, participant and all sectors of the sector. Privatisation... we know that all parties have commitments to party programs, election statements. Privatisation does not necessarily mean that factories are closed, nor does it mean that farmers are victims. We support privatisation, the facts of our country and our nation's economy, Turkey, and we will continue to support it. Respected lawmakers, especially in the hands of their beet-plant co-ops, have not been doing very well in our sugar factories, such as Kayseri, Eskişehir, Adapazari, Amasya. The Kayseri Sugar Factory, especially in our constituency, is now standing on the basis of 450 million short and long-term deposits from banks. As a result of the law imposed on us by our Ministry of Agriculture, the authority to appoint trustees has passed through the Parliament and is now run by trustees. The Kayseri Sugar Factory has been damaged by 450 million, which is estimated to be around $2 billion in eight years back. Right now, the issue has been brought to the judicial authorities, and the investigations are ongoing. But after it was transferred to the trustee, the Kayseri Sugar Factory made a profit during the campaign this year around 160 million. With this period of profit, hopefully, in two or three years, the Kayseri Sugar Factory will be on its feet. This has a great deal of support from the High Council. I'd like to thank everyone who contributed. I hereby declare that we are against the group's proposal from the Peace and Democracy Party, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0015par0274	Thank you, Mr. Karayel. In favour of the proposal, Burdur MP Ramadan Kerim Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0016par0278	Mr. President, we are now about 80 members of the Parliament. Turkey is watching us, too. Dear Minister...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0017par0280	If the Minister listens, speak like one.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0016par0281	Dear Minister, my dear friends, we're in the House, and I'm going to tell you something, and I'm going to make a very important point.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0018par0282	Mr. Özkan, please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0016par0283	We need these warnings these days, my dear President. I'm a beet-maker's kid, and I'm also a driver's shop boy. I'd like to suggest to you that beets producers, drivers, tradesmen, candies, beet beets, come to speak for themselves. I'm a sugar beet. Don't look at me like this. I'm the taste of the tea you're drinking, the food you're making. Even in the air you breathe, even in the medicine you take, it's me. If you don't believe me, I'll tell you. I'm the one who gives Turkey $2.3 billion per year in domestic added value. I'm the one who gave 10 million people jobs, bread, food. I'm the one who keeps dozens of sectors, such as feed, fertilizer, medicine, yeast, and cosmetics alive. My dear friends call it sugar beets. I am the one who prevents the migration from village to city by providing land production to 2500.000 farmers. I'm the one who fed the peasant on the land where he was born. Do you know bioethano? The source of the fastest increase in the search for alternative energy. I'm the most efficient and clean raw ingredient in bioethanol. Oh, before I forget, I told you, even in the air you breathe, I'm in. I'm not lying, I'm the one who produces three times as much oxygen in every field I've been planted in, compared to the same size of a pine forest. I don't really like to flatter myself because empty ears stand upright. I don't like to talk too much, but the yogurt sac gets old from your mouth. Know that it's not my arrogance, it's my desperation. Have you ever heard me scream? I've been in the ground for days, torn up with pitchforks, thrown into truck vaults, chopped to shreds, thrown into boiling furnaces, but I've lost my voice, I've endured for you, because the taste I've brought into your life has made me happy. But now it's your turn because they're trying to destroy me. First they narrowed down my living space, calling me quotas, bringing me the sweetener they call me. I ask you, is the truth equal to the falsehood? Now they're trying to sell the sugar mills I've been working on, privatizing them and then shutting them down. But without the factory, there's no production, there's no production, there's no employment. I don't mind, I'll go find some other land. For example, they evaluate me as a strategic product in the United States, keeping me in line. So is France. First they tried to sell the sugar mills. It wasn't long ago, they realized the mistake they made, and now they're not giving it to anyone. But I love Anatolia, the Turkish people. I belong on this land. For to take care of me is to take care of Asia Minor, to take care of honor. I thank you. "Beets of sugar." Calls the beets of sugar. There are 100 of us here, and we will make this decision together. We'd like to investigate this matter, my dear friends. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. This sugar beets address the east of Turkey to the west and the north to the south. I'm a Burdur MP. 70 percent of our Burdur's income and income are sugar beets. A sugar beets, sugar factories that employ our truckers, our barbers, our tailors, our business, our construction industry, everyone. A school, a school with its workers, a school, a theater, theater, gardens, model production fields, a school candy factory, but we'll regret it tomorrow, tomorrow we'll regret it. And he looketh toward the east and the south-east, and looketh unto Erzurum, and looketh unto Kars, and looketh unto him, and looketh unto Ercish, and looketh unto Thrace, and looketh unto the inner Anatolian, and looketh unto Sakaryah, and looketh unto Burdur. For him -- let's just say, there's a minority in there right now -- it'll be a matter of research with the votes you're going to issue, and it won't spoil the taste and sugar of our mouths. It's very important... Now, just now, this Candy Symposium, Sugar-Business... We were there today with Mr. Malatya MP, our Sakarya MP, our Ankara MP Mr. Gökhan Good morning, listening to the speakers. My dear friends, from power, from you, Mr. Çuk, our friend. And he argues that the privatisation of the privatisation is against the privatisation of the sugar mills, which is our bread. That's what the opposition is arguing for. This is the solution, the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Why are we afraid of that? The Peace and Democracy Party has made a motion. Let's find out if we're wrong. Let's not be afraid of that, my friends. This is a game. I said the sugar factories are hiring again. My dear friends, I really don't know if you've been in the beet field. Come in, there's a coolness in that field, there's a breeze. The beet leaves are petting, our feeders take advantage of the beets' tail, our feeders take advantage of the sugar beets. We said bioethanol. Ethanol is a very important issue, clean energy. It benefits from that, too. The countries of the European Union tell us to give it up. It says, France increases production fields, America increases production fields, Argentina increases production fields. Why are we trying to give up this sugar beets? It gives energy, it gives flavor, it cleans nature, the industrial plant employs a lot of people, it develops livestock. Look, we Burdur give 800 tons of milk a day. The first factor is sugar beets and pulp. In these lines, go to your territories right now, in those sugar factories, in the pits of 25 sugar mills, our truckers are waiting in line. Why? He buys a ton of change for $50, and he gets $10 for $50 to take care of his pets. Because that's the only way he'll get the rough bait. It's a very important entry. At that time, there were fights, fights to take his pet's bread, beating each other's heads off. It happens also in Burdur, and also in Sakaryah; and it happens in Eskişehir, and in Uğur, and in Alpullu, and in Malatiah. You're people who know that. So let's look into these issues. For the sake of not regretting, from the privatisation of these sugar factories... there's Burdur, Afyon, Butler, Alpullu, Susurity. Burdur and Opium are profiting. Next to this, we call five factories for sale -- the socks are now not sold by one, they are sold by five, they are sold by three -- we call them five factories for sale. As the people of Burdur, for example, we want to buy Burdur, if you will privatize Burdur, because we want to buy the Burdur Candy Factory as producers, producers, retirees, but you will also get the five, the Afyon, the footman, you will get the Susurluk, you will get the Alpullu, which we have not seen in the army, and the Thracian Sugar Factory Factory, you say. That's no way to sell portfolios. So you want to sell the losers as bait with the profiteer. Separate from that, we want to buy Burdur's Candy Factory as Burdur's Burdur's Burdur Factory as Burdur's Burdur's Burdur Sugar Factory, home to Antalya, home to Denizli, home to Afyon, so our Burdur Candy Factory runs its beets. This factory is supposed to remain a balance factory. Even bees eat the sugar of this factory by choosing, and when sherbets are made, they don't eat any other sherbets. The bee likes the sugar the Burdur Sugar Factory makes... because it doesn't have hormones, it doesn't have GMO, it's not a modified organism type, it's natural, as it is. Let's not spoil that bee that tastes Burdur's candy. So, let's look into these, let's see where they stand. I offer all of you with respect and love, thinking that you will vote yes to the motion.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0019par0295	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Against the proposal, Mr. Bulut, the Balıkesir MP.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0020par0298	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are a very important issue in our country where the problems of the beet-making, beet-producing farmer are really on the agenda. Due to beets brought to the Supreme Assembly, which have directly or directly affected about 10 million people in our country, which value a $3 billion a year in our economy, the sugar sector has been trying to be shut down, increasingly under the name privatisation since the 2000s. In our country, we've become a society of people who import and buy and eat and eat and eat $1.5 billion of liquid fuel, liquid oil, $2 billion in grains, money for other people's farmers. Now, by reducing beet production, we're going to privatize factories, have them switch hands, shut down over time, and we're going to end up like this in sugar. In our country, it's hard to use sweetener instead of sugar that already affects carcinogenics. The cake is used to sweeten the sweet sector, which is not controlled. The Balıkesir Susurlik Sugar Factory is also part of this privatisation, including Elazig, Ercish, Elbistan, Malatya sugar factories. With the establishment of the republic, the republic, the young republic, paid off all Ottoman debts until the 1950s. By these years, our country has been equipped with factories that will bring the new republic to the country's economy, particularly the sugar factories, for the development of the newly formed young state. I'm saying there's no rational, rational way to sell these factories that were built at great cost during that time of poverty because they're destroying the factories that our country needs under the name of privatisation. Last year on this bench again, during my visit to the Balıkesir Susurluk Sugar Factory, I stated that it had been reduced to 23 percent of the recoltent and was not fully operational, that it had been reduced to full capacity, as if one hand had purposely tried to damage these factories. There's natural gas at the bottom of the factory, but the factory runs on coal! The coal tender is being held in Ankara. The field company brings coal in full season, produce in the garden, pancar- but the coal doesn't burn, it's very bad quality coal. Every day, Duran, the value of beets is falling. So around 200 million dollars are being taken into account by the figure of that day. Ten days go by. The wine there flows, its quality goes down, and eventually, ten days later, the coal is being re-supplyed, and the rest of the coal is trying to be produced. When I asked Mr. Finance Minister last year, why don't you run this place at full capacity, his answer was: If we run these factories at full capacity, they produce twice as much sugar as Turkey needs. I said, "Well, Mr. Minister, isn't it good to produce twice as much sugar?" Do you grow as much wheat as your house needs when you plow the field? Does he do this as much as his house needs meat, milk, eggs? People will produce a lot of things that will satisfy their needs, plus earn money, help himself, his family, his people.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0021par0301	He can't sell...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0020par0302	Why can't he sell it? In Europe, the support for the manufacturer in the United States is more than Turkey, but unfortunately, in our country, support for the beet maker is 142 euros. In other countries, the European Union and the United States provide 1,650 euros in support. Of course it's just beets? That's the government's strategy for all products? Now, the country needs oil in a certain amount. Turkey cannot consume existing olive oil. We're not in the olive oil habit. Or at home, we ask the lady, "What did you cook this fish with?" She says, "I cooked it with poison oil." Bring that thing. When we say, we see a liquid oil, a flower oil. In this society, where we can't explain olive oil enough, the Ministry of Agriculture has given 250 million liras per acre to replant olive products. Now, you can't sell the assets, you pay $1.5 billion a year for liquid oil, on the other hand, you don't make an effort to consume the product that's in this hand to promote it. I told the Minister of National Defence that we should consume this olive oil in our warehouses, that we cannot sell, that we cannot feed it to society, that we should mix it with oil of flowers and feed it to the military. In this sense, a program is no different than the government's method in sugar, which does not produce a plan. It's very dangerous to close these factories, to be privatized, to be closed, lawmakers. A Russian consortium bought what we had privatized earlier, a consortium dealing with sugar. He ran it for a year or two, and then he stopped production in Turkey because it was higher, and we started buying candy from Russia. How do we make money if we don't make it? How can we repay our debt if we don't produce it? There isn't an economy in the world where there's a way to develop without producing. It would be helpful for this country to produce, to produce, to support the manufacturer, to guide them in this sense, to support them in this sense, to market their products, to support the factory maker in the industrial sector. The government's officials, Mr. Prime Minister, say they're looking at the country in the sense of a merchant. As our former Finance Minister says, "I sell everything like a father." I think he should consider the sale with a business sense. Now, when the republic was established, these sugar factories were built on the edges of cities, set up in beautiful places; now these factories, valued lawmakers, stayed in the center of cities, surrounded, filled. The Kayseri Sugar Factory is one of them. Look at how the storms are blowing over it, what scams are being pulled around it. How many times has he been brought here for research on this subject, but he's not being touched? It's said to be sold to the Metropolitan Municipality for a dollar. After that, the projects are making money for someone. Whose property is this? There is, it must be investigated, it must be expressed, it must be brought to the House. Here's what Congress should do with this motion to investigate such matters. I ask that an effort be made for the development of our farmer, for the development of this country, for the support of factories, for the sake of various rumors, speculations, the removal of misunderstandings, the removal of the victim's hands, and for the sake of the development of this country's farmers, an effort to ensure that the Assembly, Parliament, and the Parliament do their part in this matter, and I salute your high delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0022par0308	Thank you, Mr. Cloud.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0023par0309	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker must have made a speech here without confirming his full knowledge. Kayseri Candy Factory stated that the municipality was sold at a price of $1.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0020par0310	It's said. I said it.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0022par0311	It's said. He said.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0023par0312	Sir, that's not going to happen with rumors here.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0020par0313	Let's talk about it here and look into it.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0023par0314	Look, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make it right.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0020par0315	It's being said. I'm saying it. Let's discuss this here, like this or not?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0023par0316	Before we get into any more bullying...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0024par0317	It's said, let's investigate. He said, but come on in.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0025par0318	Is he the representative of the Kayseri Candy Factory, Mr. Elistash, who's taking his word for it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0026par0319	With a rumor?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0025par0320	No, are you a representative of the Kayseri Candy Factory, Mr. Elitaş, are you a lawyer?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0027par0321	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0028par0325	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. While our Balıkesir MP was speaking here, he brought up an issue about sugar factories, but he used the expression: "The Kayseri Sugar Factory is said to have been sold to the Metropolitan Municipality at a price of $1. While the Beet Planters were in charge of the Co-op, we know that research, investigations and inspections of the executives at the time squandered the rights, interests of their beet farmers, and was transferred to the trustee after a court ruling on the matter. During the past period, we and our friends from the entire political party group expressed the change in law on this issue during changes in the Turkish Trade Law. They said: "This law means this. But I'm telling you clearly: 90 percent of the Kaiseri Sugar Factory is the property of the Beet Planters Cooperative, 10 percent of the Privatisation Administration is the seven percent, all of it is the partner through Turkish Sugar, all of it is the Cooperative of the Pancar Planters." None of the Kayseri municipalities have a single share here, and it's not possible, because you have to be a beet farmer to be a member of the Beets Plants Co-op. The conditions for him to be a beet farmer are clear. There's no way that the Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality, as a corporate person, could have been a beet planter anywhere, and that's not going to happen. I think it's more appropriate for lawmakers to express something on documents, not on hearing when they're talking here. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0029par0330	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The National Party of Action has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process, and then I shall submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 12,01,2012 (today), since there is no consensus among the Political Party Groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of internal law. Yours truly. With the number of October 11, 2011 and 244, I propose that our parliamentary research motion, which was read at the General Assembly (now) on Thursday 12,01,2012, should be held today, "in order to protect our narensian producers from the price fluctuations in the market and to assess the potential of our country's exports and to determine the measures that need to be taken." In his favor, Adana MP Ali Halaman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0030par0348	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Our proposal is a citrus, we've given it to her before, but it's come down to today -- growing a citrus in the world and Turkey. In all the countries between the 40 degrees south and northern latitudes of Ecuador, the citrus breeds. Turkey is not the motherland of citrus, but has been known to breed citruses in Anatolia for two thousand years. The largest orange producer in the world is Brazil, then the United States, Mexico, India, China, Indonesia, Spain and Turkey. The world's citrus produces 55 percent of its production oranges. According to Turkey's 2008 data, 1 million 430 tonnes of oranges are produced in 635 hectares. Our country produces 2% of the world's orange production. I'd like to share with you the problems of the citrus manufacturers in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a result, today he remained in Adana, Mersin, in the lemon branch. Although the end of January has been reached, 50 percent of the lemon has not yet been cut. The lemon's 30 cents a pound, no takers, no sale. He's trying to buy crates with money, hire workers, keep warehouses, and move the product from his garden. Manufacturers without money can't even collect lemons in their branches. There's no trader in the market who buys citrus products, and the problem happens every year. This is beyond politics, as all the people of Çukurova listen to us at this time today, in an intense effort with their opposition as the politicians of Adana, we try to bring our citizen, producer, merchant's problems to Minister Bey. Dear MPs, the people who bring the bread of Adana out of stone, who try to live in that land with their teeth and nails and their children, but every year they do harm to the narcissist. We don't have the right, the government and this Parliament are responsible for building a solution to this. There has to be a way to overcome the problems of this foreign trade, but every year the problems of foreign trade have made our farmer miserable, and the harvest season has turned into a period of suffering. The person of Çukurova has rightly responded to all politics and politicians, and in my system, he is left alone with his own destiny. Recently, a $125 ton of support for lemon exports has not been worth the trouble and has not been paid in advance as well as its timing. At the end of the day, we're going to give this $125 in exports, and sometimes the bonus doesn't encourage the trader because it's not paid in advance. In addition, the government, which is considering a $125 bonus per ton this year, requires an export of $896 or $892 from the merchant. Now, even if such an app is done on any side of the world, as encouraged by $125 per ton, it's not selling lemons for $892, and since it's not sold, it's not getting a $125 bonus. It's called "mahsuption." The merchant or farmer has received 15 percent of it because of what they did with the stockpile, which is of no great benefit. Therefore, Mr. Secretary, this farmer needs to be told something. What are we gonna do? If it's a disaster, it's a disaster. If it's a disaster, it's a disaster. The guy's house is flooded, his shit's gone, and now he's stuck in the pot. Dear lawmakers, the season for citrus opens on July 15th. If the right policies could be implemented on July 15th, September would be marketed to a narc by October, the farmer would take his money, get out of the garden, and the merchant would enter the garden. But now that I've reached the end of my November, there's no merchant, and the merchant has bought lemons at the beginning of the season for 50 to 60 cents, and now he can't sell it, the warehouses are full. I repeat, Adana farmer's harvest season has not been good. If the narcissist owes money to the bank, he's having trouble paying off his debt to the bank, his drug debt, his fertilizer debt if he has it. Now, Mr. Government, Mr. Secretary, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is obliged to provide a solution to this farmer. We talk about it here every time. This is not government politics or opposition politics. People's work is lost right in front of us. It's hard to grow a garden, it takes work, it takes sweat. It doesn't grow on citrus everywhere, it looks for climate conditions, it grows on private soils. The grace of God is in this land, especially in the Mediterranean region, where the narcissist is abundant, especially in Mersin, Erdemli. Look, today, about lemons, the farmer or gardener in his own distress, he calls our congressman friends every day and says, "What will our job be?" So, I'm also asking the Minister. The Adana farmer, the lemon producer, the narcissist manufacturer, all of them -- the government, politicians -- so much bureaucratic barriers, exports, imports -- need to reach out to them. It's not right to tell this farmer, the manufacturer, to be left alone with his own problems. So politics is the political institution that shapes it, shapes it, shapes the production, consumption of people who live on a geography. Governments have a duty to comfort people living in an asylum, to meet their needs, to make laws about them, to set rules, to direct international relations. So Mr. Minister here, by comparing today and yesterday's prices, must make an effort to help the farmer, the manufacturer, the lemon, the orange, the tangerine that was sold on the branch of the garden today by putting in prices, to help sell the property of the lemon maker. So I tried to address the problems of the citrus manufacturers. I thank you all for listening to me, and I give you all my respect, my love. God bless you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0031par0366	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Against Mersin MP Ertugrul Kürkcı. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0032par0369	Mr. President, dear friends, I must tell the motion holders from the start that I am not against the motion, of course, because we cannot speak otherwise, but I would still like to complete the motion by speaking about a side the motion does not see. The motion is mainly focused on the sectoral problem, which has arisen in recent seasons and business conditions, but the owners of these businesses are closer to the issue than those who run direct production facilities. Of course, it's true that this sector is troubled in this way, but when we look at the entire sector, I want to point out that the direct manufacturers here, the real manufacturers, the real mass, in these agricultural businesses, are the ones that anchor the land, collect the fruits, put them together in logistics and packaging facilities, wrap them together, and try to earn their lives over them, are going as far back as the producers, or even further back as they are, so research should include this area. As a matter of fact, in agriculture, unsecured work is essential, union and insured work is the exception. Although, as a result of the government's neoliberal economic policies, the security and regular work in Turkey are now an exception, while unsecured, uninsured, uninsured, uninsured work becomes a rule, it is much more obvious for workers in the agriculture sector, because the neoliberal agriculture policies are not only corrupting unit businesses, but making themselves workers in relatively unproductive, rural areas, and also trying to earn their own lives by farming. So, as a whole, the workers who work on this agricultural land are actually the previous generation farmers, and they are the result of working in a new kind of ferodalism for them, not as a sign of civilization, in the way that these farmers are constantly working, that they are constantly working, that they are unionised, that they are insured, that their pay revenues are in order. Therefore, it would be of great benefit to the research to focus on these working conditions, especially on economic policies that make the working conditions worse. The second point is that women and children are the most important part of workers who work in these businesses and are victims of these businesses. Although both women's work and children's work are tried to be secured by the law in some way more than adult men, it is known that they are the most affected by the vast majority of insecure workers, women and children, or unsecured work. In particular in the summer months, there is always the third page news that you will remember, which will immediately come to your attention: the trailer was blown, 32 women lost their lives. The bus fell, 38 workers and 20 children lost their lives. Not only in citrus areas, but also in nuts, cotton, figs, and grapes are the same results. The main reason why women are more negatively affected than the process is that any arrangement that protects their labor force is not part of the tradition. The women who have been hired in the traditional manner of uncles are already slaves at home, so the vast majority of the production is at the bottom of the working ground, even though the women, the children, are on the shoulders of young workers, and so they are at the very bottom of the working ground, without security. It is clear that the demand for the sector's protection from this point of view... must be taken into protective custody... or extended to everyone in the present protection mechanisms. Today, Turkey, according to last year's figures, exports of vegetables and fruit to Turkey amount to around $2 billion. Considering that this is at least four times the size of the domestic market, we can see that there's about 10 billion dollar leftovers, and now we can see how small the employee's share of the value production is, and the amount of public spending is not reflected in their assurances, and we can see that there's a tremendous amount of exploitation here. I've tried to travel my share, especially during the election, as much as possible, in the remote districts of Mersin, in the country, and in the outback of the country, as well as in the logistical packaging facilities. Here's the picture I see from the outside: in fact, in the brightness of the United States that resembles these integrated production facilities, in modernity, in terms of high-tech logistics, where they're actually trying to pack the fruits, the products that they're trying to produce, the fruits that they're twisting under their feet, the young girls with the shawls and the women who are in their own feet, the people between fifteen to twenty-five years, the people between the ages of 15 and twenty years, at least 12 hours a day, most of the time, just by using their hands, that's what we've all enjoyed, and that's where they've been trying to get the fruits, but in order to actually to buy them out of their own fruit, and in fact, they're so that they're extremely inadequate to buy out of those fruits, and in fact, in fact, in contrast, in the 19th century, in 19th and twentyth century, in 19th century, we're all of the most of the United States, we've seen in many years, in many years, in many of England've seen in the books, in the United States, and many of the United States, in the United States, in the United States, and many of England, they've seen, and many other books, they've seen in the world. We must remember that every slice of tangerine we eat is the labor of thousands, tens of thousands of young women, child laborers, who have unpaid labor in oranges. So we also need to see what the industry is up to when we're protecting the industry. Yes, the industry may have damaged it this year, but the wealth that has been accumulated for decades, in fact, is based on the unpaid labor of these workers, and it is our right to expect new regulations to come back to these workers in insurance, under proper conditions, in good health. In the last ten years, Turkey has grown to this much, and we have advanced to this much, and we've come to this order at the time of the world's unknown. The government boasts a lot. In fact, there's no wonder he's bragging about it as a government. If that's what the numbers really say, that's the truth, but if we look under this truth, in all this progress, we need to repeat what was said all the time, when the real manufacturers, the workers, and the workers, were directly involved in agriculture, in industry, in services, in information, in wages, in income, and in incomes, there is almost no progress at all. The government and its chiefs of the industry, unless they transfer a significant portion of its revenues and resources to the real producers, whether it has increased the production of the narcissist as much as this, there will be no increase and no improvement in Turkey's human capital. I recommend that we keep our lives in mind, men and women, laborers and children, who we feed on their own efforts. And I support the proposal. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0033par0380	Thank you, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0034par0381	Mr. President, I'm sorry. A minister must be present from the beginning to the end of each meeting. As far as I can see, there's no one here who's the commanding judge of the law. Can we complete this lack of procedure?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0035par0382	We're not on the agenda yet, sir. We're not on the agenda. As soon as it's on the agenda.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0034par0383	Sir, every interview says, I can't make a distinction, there's no distinction.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0035par0384	We haven't started seeing each other yet. There was another objection last time. The Presidential Court has made up its mind.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0036par0385	At first, Mr. Tanal, I think they'll be here. Now, in favor of the proposal, Mr. Mayor of Mersin elects. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0037par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party's Party to determine and determine the problems in the citrus sector, which the National Movement Party has given. I salute you all. Of course, in a country where peace, law, democracy, human rights, freedoms are painful, it's not so easy to solve the problems of different social parts of society. If the system is not established in that country, then the government at work spends much of its executive energy on these issues, and the opposition argues about them in the same way. Look, Turkey is a dynamic country, as far as its structure is concerned, as far as geography goes, it's a dynamic country, and we're changing the agenda very fast. In recent days, 34 of our citizens have been bombed and bombed by fighter planes. How did this happen, how did he have trouble sharing intel, whether there's a problem with government institutions, whether there's a problem with government communication, whether someone's saying something wrong to someone, or making them do something wrong? But as a result, 34 of our innocent citizens died in Uludere, and we're discussing them, every day on television screens, they were discussed, but a week was discussed, ten days were discussed, and that was forgotten today. After that, the warrant for the arrest of the Chief of Staff, followed by the prosecution of Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu, who has been charged with interfering with a fair trial, could be interfered with a fair trial in a country that is a fair trial. Our argument is: there is no fair trial in Turkey. We're yelling for him, we're making a sound for him. We call it more democracy, we call it more human rights, we call it the rule of law, we call it justice, we shout for it. But Mr. Prime Minister is very cool about the issue of this debate, and he's considering it as an event to be expected. But pay attention to Mr. Prime Minister's statements at every stage, Turkey says that civil will always favours civil opinion to win, but if the issue is the leader of the main opposition party, then unfortunately his views change at this point and can shift to different places, different areas. My dear friends, of course, today's motion is a matter of the industry where a significant percentage of society provides income. Of course, I've had the opportunity to address you here in favor of this matter. Of course, these issues should be discussed here -- the current problems with the shareholders of this sector, the problems from the past, some future planning issues -- should be discussed here. What we're talking about is a sector that has made significant contributions to the economy. When you look at exports, the important numbers... Turkey has about a million tons of narcissistic exports. We're talking about an export of $800 million and $1 billion to change over the years. It's important that he contributes to the illegal nationals. A total of 57-58 billion pounds of vegetables, or 3.5 million tons of citrus produced in the fruit trade or in the harvest, are worth about $3 billion. Of course, these are important figures for the Turkish economy. Many shareholders in this sector are getting their share of the industry. It starts with the manufacturer, it concerns the farmers who harvest it, the movers who carry it, the traders who market it, the exporters who move it abroad, the exporters who market it, the shareholders of many sectors. Turkey has problems in the citrus sector, which is currently under way. The local lawmakers, where a citrus like me is produced, know all about it. And I know the manufacturers have been complaining to themselves a lot lately. So I'm faced with these complaints as MP of Mersin: he's stuck in the product branch. We've had complaints, screams, etc., we can't pay our debts. Here you go, Silifke, a region with significant potential in the production of virtue lemons. There is Limonians Coffee in Silifke, where you can go now, where our manufacturer friends, or our merchant friends, who are trading in the business, are sitting there, and you have a chance to identify their complaints very closely. So all this needs to be talked about. Of course, it's not supposed to be talked about here, it's not supposed to be. We complain every time we get a chance here, we make some arrangements, we make some legal arrangements, they're good on paper, all political parties have opinions about it; no matter what the subject of agriculture, industry or social security, whatever you think of, some of the plans come up here with compromises, some of the bills come out with government constraints, and you look at them on paper, they're pretty good, but there's no response in the application. One of the important issues of the past few days is the legal arrangement, which was adopted as of January 1, 2012, is known in public as the Hal Law. Legal regulation has entered into effect, my fellow lawmakers serving in the 23rd term will remember this, in fact this legal arrangement is a 2010 regulation, which the Supreme Assembly has adopted in March 2010, and as of March 26th, certain articles have been adopted, and certain substances will be implemented as of March 2011, but, of course, the system is a new system. In the end, arrangements for the occupational area of what we refer to as the Hal Law were referred and managed by a decree of the law that has been passed since 1995. With all the groups in common, this law came out, and they said: "If we put this into effect on March 2011, there will be trouble here. In the end, there is no technological infrastructure, there is no infrastructure, so let's extend the date of it. They brought it in, and they extended it until January 1, 2012. Now, on January 1, 2012, this new Hal Law came into effect, and the troubles are on the rise again. We're also getting complaints from the manufacturers, from our merchant friends who deal in the matter, as well as from the groomsmen. What I'm trying to say is that we're making laws, we're making regulations, we're taking out secondary legislation, but the infrastructure isn't ready. I'd like to, of course, if the minister of this matter were here, at least to give us some information as to where the work is today. My dear friends can always face significant problems in Turkey, especially in a business-oriented or job-absorbed sector, such as the agricultural sector. Now, there's also a working group of people in the community who have been able to achieve incremental numbers about the citrus we're talking about, and these people are working under very difficult conditions. Generally, when you go to the Mediterranean Region, our people who work in these sectors are people who migrate from the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region. Of course, these people didn't migrate to those areas of their own free will, of their own free will. People who migrated to those areas due to economic difficulties, as a result of the unrest caused by the conflict environment of those who lived there. Of course, let's talk about the problems of the traders, exporters, producers, but let's talk about the problems of the people who worked there from the early hours of that morning to the dark of the evening, for three cents, for five cents, for low wages. Let's see if they have social security. Let's see if they're getting paid for their hard work, and at the point of solving these problems, I'd like to ask the House to step in and make the necessary arrangements. We will vote in favour of the parliamentary research motion by the National Movement Party, and I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0038par0403	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Against Antalya MP Sadik Badak. Here you go, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0039par0406	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the motion to investigate the problems of narcissistic production and manufacturers, and first, I salute your grand delegation. The motion focused on measures on both production and foreign marketing of the relevant sector, the narcissist sector. Of course, we all long for these measures to be taken, and we keep a close eye on them -- which we're happy to see -- especially since the last four years, the measures that have been taken at an increasing rate since 2007 have yielded results. I'd like to share my views with you, taking into consideration the proposals, respectively. In our country, the production of narcissists occurs in three major regions: one is Çukurova, the other is Antalya, and the third is Izmir. There are citrus products in all three areas, like oranges, lemons, grapefruits, golden balls, a little bit further back. Sir, the motion says that awareness should be created about the trace of the zirai drug. Very serious studies have been conducted for the past four years in particular, and the result has been implemented, implemented, and succeeded in recording and monitoring chemicals used only in plant production, in order to ensure that agricultural drug use is under control and there will be no problems in exporting the remains. In this regard, there is no need to take precautions again, again. But we're following a more serious implementation of the regulation that's been issued. Furthermore, it is said that: ▪ Let there be incentives for fertilizer, watering, and other things. • I also reviewed the incentives in this regard, and I saw that there were very serious incentives. According to the Farmer's Recording System, which began in 2010, 36,000 businesses are producing citrus. However, as with many other products, citruses are given these supports. First, the agricultural basin production and support model has increased the efficiency of these supports. Seven separate supports are being provided. I want to talk about this very briefly: Certified sapling support provided. If the orange grove is built, the certified sapling will be provided with 200 lira in the garden if the garden is built, and if it is used by standard sapling, 100 lira in the pot. Supplies for diesel, fertilizer and soil analysis. Farmers involved in the Farmers' Recording System in 2010 in 2010 are paid $3.25 in black for diesel, $4.25 for fertilizer, and 2.5 lira for soil analysis, published in the Official Gazette of 27505, published on February 26, 2010. There are details on this, I'm not going in. I can share it with my willing friends later. In 2010, farmers' registration system and registered manufacturers were given 2m,75,000 lira diesels, $2,713,000 in fertilizer and 1.5 million in soil analysis in the area of 642,643. More than five and a half or six million liras have been supported in this regard. Again, the third support is support for organic agriculture and good agricultural practices. Organic farmers pay 25 lira in credit to producers who practice good agriculture in fruit products, 20 lira in credit, and 80 lira in credit to producers who farm well under covers. In addition, there is subsidies credit-use support. A discounted loan is credited by 50 per cent to 500,000 liras in investment and business loans. The 5th support is the support of rural development investments. In rural development investments, projects such as product processing, packaging, filing, storage, frigofric transport and irrigation facilities are funded by 50 per cent. Again, we are given 50% of the project's cost as a grant to our farmers who built the drip irrigation system, the cold storage, the packaging, the packaging plant. There is also credit support for up to 1.5 million liras, with a 50 per cent discount, given to farmers who grow certified gardens by the Agriculture Bank. Again, the sixth support is TARSIM, agricultural insurance support. The 7th support is the support of agricultural counselling. The producers who benefit from agricultural counselling are supported by 500 lira per business. Again, the motion recommends the creation and development of promotional groups. This is what we see in 2007, the Narenci Promotion Group, with its extremely useful work, and its export to the narcissist is increasing. I'd like to share with you a few examples of counsel on this matter. There are studies in foreign markets to increase exports of citrus fruit. At the same time, the Alata Research Institute, Çukurova University and the Western Mediterranean Research Institute BATEM have been working on developing new species of citrus fruit. I'm happy to say that eight species of citrus have been developed and registered by BATEM. The patent is entirely owned by Turkey; it belongs to BATEM. I'd like to say their names: three kinds of orange... the BATEM Conqueror, the Washington kind. BATEM Spring, this is again the Washington kind, which comes out in the spring to spread production to eight months. D.C. is also registered as BATEM Sugar, thin crust and very sweet. Three separate new registrations were made in the Mandarin. The BATEM Star is made up of a very large species of mandarin - thin crusted, easily peeled, without seeds, and delicious. Second, BATEM Pearl, medium height, thin shell, no core. Third, BATEM is registered as Göral, early, equal to Satsuma in size, low core and delicious. We have two new kinds of lemons. BATEM Fountain is similar to Interdonate, but very superior and very juicy. Our second type of lemon is BATEM Yellow. When it matures, its color is similar to gold and juicy. So new products are also an important subject to study in this framework. Again, the promotional group reaches Far East markets -- Japan, Malaysia, Hong Kong. The export of citrus fruit has seen significant increases in the long-term work here. In the 2011-2012 season, the export of mandarin was 344,000 tonnes, with an increase of 81% from the work of the Narenciian Promotion Group, according to the previous period. Lemon exports took place at 246 tonnes and increased by 10 per cent compared to the previous period. Orange exports have increased by 26 per cent, and grapefruit exports have increased by 10 per cent. I, finally -- I'm running out of time -- there's a proposal in the motion to remove the citrus products from the Hal Act, and I want to say that I don't understand this proposal at all. But we're working with the consensual to prevent unregisteredness in our country. The Hal Law, which is under way, and the 15 percent commissions from citrus products, which are sold out of all products, have been reduced from 2 to 1. Instead of supporting this, it does not seem very right to suggest that we remove the citrus products from the Hal Act. We don't think the motion is right, and we're going to vote against the motion, and I give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0040par0428	Thank you, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0041par0429	Mr. President, I demand a short word for 60.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0040par0430	Yes, come in, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0041par0433	Sir, as a result, I consider the negotiations on our motion to discuss the problems of these citrus manufacturers a win, but as a result, everyone must accept that the narcissist manufacturer is in trouble, in trouble, and in every year, it's hurting. The vivid manifestation of this is that lemon gardens are being cut down, and the garden of citrus is being cut down, and other things are being replaced, and planted. Therefore, today's demand for a commission to discuss the problems of citrus manufacturers is the right one. Also, not only the producers of citrus, but also the merchants and exporters. It is the request of the organisation's representatives that the trafficking of the narcissist be taken outside the Hal Act as a demand by sector organisations. I demand that he be considered and examined. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0040par0435	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0042par0438	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0040par0439	There's a request for roll call. I'll carry out the roll call before I submit the motion to your votes. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Elector, Mr. Özkes, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Gök, Mr. Köse, Mr. Havutça, Gürkut Acar, Mr. Toptaş, Mr. Ekinci, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Ayadim, Mr. Öner... I guess so. We wrote about Ozturk. Dawn... I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0043par0451	Mr. President, sir, I'd like to bring this to the attention of the Presidential Court and the General Assembly. We asked for roll call, 20 of our friends stood up, but two of our friends who stood up here, Mr. Celal Dinçer and Mr. Ihsan Ozkes, are not on the list of names that Diva received. I mean, 20 of us standing up, and we're friends who keep this note in a manner that makes it look like there's not 20 of us.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0040par0453	The number there is 20, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0043par0454	Sir, Mr. Celal Dinçer is here, Mr. Ihsan Ozkes is here. There's a problem, sir, if our two friends standing up in the front row aren't on the roll call list the Diva is holding.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0040par0455	I guess there was a little bit of a jump in the name. I'm sorry. We'll take a closer look next time.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0043par0456	Sir, the ruling party is buying time because of his delay, of course.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0044par0458	But, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0045par0459	Did they ignore the mufti?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0046par0460	Please... so far...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0044par0461	Mr. President, lawmakers who demand roll call will stand. When you say it there, it's called a name.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0046par0462	Congressmans, members of the group, the vice presidents are something we've always been able to do. Please excuse us if we're running a little late while our friends record the names because they're new.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0044par0463	No, there's no problem if they petition, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0046par0464	There's no way it's intentional or anything. Now, the Civil Code of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0047par0466	Mr. President, now, whose job is it to write down names? So the friends on the couch, the friends who helped you, don't they have a job to do?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0048par0467	No, sir, not their duties.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0046par0468	Sir, I've said what I have to say. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. 12:01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Thursday 12,01,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. M. Akif Hamzacebi On 28 October 2011, it was suggested by Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk and his friends that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be read to the Grand National Assembly on the same day of the 12th of Thursday (October 12th), in the same joint session of the Parliamental Research Proclamation (11th) of the prisoners and those who lost their lives in prisons. On the other hand, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0049par0482	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I've been promised a group proposal by the Republican People's Party. That's what we offer as the Republican People's Party, my dear friends. With this group's proposal, we've asked that a parliamentary research commission be set up to investigate the conditions, health problems, and the reasons for these problems, to determine whether there were people who lost their lives in prison due to health problems. Dear lawmakers, right of life is the foundation of human rights at the very top. Human body immunity and a healthy right to life are guaranteed through the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and international contracts. It's a known fact that when people are living a free life, they're arrested for suspicion of any crime, when they're imprisoned or convicted, they're in an inequal position for a free man who's just trying to use rights and freedoms, they don't lose their ability to be human. The state must remember that prisoners and prisoners under its protection are human beings. He's in charge of protecting their health and treating them if they're sick. The state's failure to perform these tasks is clearly a violation of human rights, not preventing the dangerous process of the health of prisoners and prisoners. Another element that threatens the right to live is the violation of the right to a fair trial. The state is tasked with taking all necessary measures to eliminate the right to a fair trial. Whoever violates the right to a fair trial has to neutralize them. Dear MPs, the European Court of Human Rights condemns Turkey in recent years for compensation, especially for human rights due to a fair trial in Turkey. Turkey is ranked the first to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights in violation of its right to a fair trial. Turkey is marked in many AIH decisions where the detention institution does not work well, people are unjustly deprived of their freedoms. The ECHR finds that there is a widespread and systematic problem stemming from the judicial system and the law in Turkey, and the fact that courts use one type of abstract basis when deciding whether or not to continue imprisonment, the quality and nature of crime, the case of the current evidence, the abstract stereotype of the defendant's suspicion of escape, the use of the Court of Human Rights, the use of guarantees or other protection measures, and that arrest is not being prosecuted by the court and, above all, not taking into consideration the decisions of judges and prosecutors of the European Court of Human Rights. We, along with this AKP ruling, have changed the 90th article of the Constitution, my friends. If there is a conflict between international contracts and the laws in Turkey, there are international contracts in front of the laws in Turkey. We said and continued... we are a country that has adopted the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights. The Turkish word for this means that judges and prosecutors in Turkey, above all, are bound by international law laws and are charged with implementing European Court of Human Rights decisions, which means that the courts are not authorized to comply with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. This is a clear violation of the 90th Amendment of the Constitution, my dear friends. Also appointed to the ECHR during this period of power, Isil Karakaş stated that applications for the length of the trial and imprisonment have increased in recent years due to violation of the right to a fair trial. Karakaş, who noted that judges in Turkey have decided that the defendants will be tried in accordance with the classic criteria during the trial, has personally found that this is wrong and that it is also wrong by the ECHR. Dear MPs, the following has been said in the opening address of the Year of the 23rd Amendment by our President Abdullah Gul: "The arrest has been transformed into a verb punishment. To be transformed into this kind of verb conviction, to correct such setbacks... ▪ He wanted the Parliament to carry out the necessary legal arrangements as soon as possible, with the understanding that late justice is no different from injustice. Now, the European Court of Human Rights, on the one hand, asks the Turkish government to address the difficulties in this matter, and, as in the decision of Cahit Demirel, now states that it is a systematic and widespread violation of the right to a fair trial, has asked Turkey to take measures on this issue, and it serves the European Committee of Ministers. My dear friends, at work, the latest, the Council of Europe declares that it is against special authorities, that there is no right to a fair trial in Turkey. The process began with journalists' arrests. It says that the government and prosecutors' state-run mentality is dominant. It says that special courts must be reviewed. Again, my dear friends, the Council of Europe -- the last one here -- they arrest the Commissioner two months ago, clearly without reviews. He says, "The decisions are automatically taken." The evidence is not evaluated. He says, "The evidence is not evaluated." And there is severe criticism for judges and prosecutors from Europe. My dear friends, I've already told you, it is a violation of the constitution to disobey the 90th article of the Constitution. Now, I want to tell you who violated the right to a fair trial in Turkey. Now, the Republican People's Party's President has been indicted on November 9, 2011 for attempting to influence a fair trial after visiting Republican People's Party MPs at Silivride prison, and has been sent to the Ministry of Justice. My dear friends, first of all, in order for something to be affected, it has to be in the middle. It has been made clear by the International Court of Human Rights in Turkey, where there is no fair trial in special authorities courts, and we accept jurisdiction. There's no doubt about it. If Turkey has a fair trial, then why does the European Court of Human Rights condemn Turkey to compensation? Then why doesn't the Turkish government say to the European Court of Human Rights: "No, brother, the right to a fair trial is not violated in our courts, the right to a fair trial is respected, so we don't pay this compensation." Why don't they say? Therefore, the right to a fair trial in Turkey is violated by judges and prosecutors charged with the right to a fair trial. I want this detected from this podium. My dear friends, we have no objection to preparing a hearing about Mr. President. So it's said that a statement is prepared about everyone. Yes, a statement is prepared about everyone, but you have violated the right to a fair trial in Turkey. If it is prepared for its statement, it is shameful for the state of law. Here, in fact, the understanding of the judiciary's overpowering Parliament is dominant. It's something that upsets me even more after that, Mr. Attorney General's statement. Mr. Minister says: "Where does Mr. Kilicdaroglu get the right to make these accusations, to insult the prosecutors who did the duty? Who are the laws against others that will not apply to him? What special adjectives do they have that the articles that other politicians are dealing with will not apply to Mr. Kilicdaroglu? My dear friends, we're not saying that Mr. Kilicdaroglu shouldn't prepare for a trial. Of course, if Mr. Kilicdaroglu is really committing a crime, then the 10th article of the Constitution can also be issued a complaint against him as well as immunity as any citizen, and we have no objection to that, but the Prime Minister and our Parliament Speaker Brent Arinc have a lot to say at that time, my dear friends. There are words about the prosecution, there are words about the Supreme Court, and it says, "Look, Mr. Prime Minister, it's not just the monopoly of judicial institutions, it doesn't mean that judicial independence decisions cannot be criticised." And it says here for Mr. Prime Minister Prosecutor's Office: "This is the basis of this country's prosecution and the separation of forces, under the rule of justice, we are facing the biggest obstacle." Master, it's not your job, it's the work of the Dianet. He says it, Mr. Prime Minister says it. When does it say? It says 18.5,2006. Again, Erdogan, who claims to represent the will of the nation, was very harsh in the closing of the headscarf and AKP (AKP) case, and no one can put up a mortgage on the will of the nation. The will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, founded in its own spirit, cannot be clouded. The people own the Republic. No one has the right to say that the republic cannot be left to the nation.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0050par0501	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0049par0502	My dear friends...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0050par0503	Thank you very much, Mr. Ozturk. Please...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0049par0504	Now, Mr. Prime Minister, the last thing you should see... is that it's not the right way to be tried.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0050par0505	Mr. Ozturk... please...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0049par0506	If the Prime Minister is sincere in this, he has to do what he has to do, he has to do what he has to do.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0050par0507	Mr. Ozturk, I beg you very much, please clear the podium.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0049par0508	The last words of Bulent Arinc say there is no lamite.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0050par0509	Mr. Ozturk, I presume you can hear me.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0049par0510	These MPs will be removed. If we're going to talk about an intervention in the judiciary, we're going to have to... [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0050par0513	Thank you very much. Members of parliament, Mr. Almazbek Atambayev, President of the Republic of Turkey, who is visiting our country at the invitation of President Abdullah Gul, has now honored our Parliament. I welcome them in the name of our great Assembly. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] In accordance with the decision made yesterday's merger, I would like to call Mr. President to the stand to make his speech. Here you go, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0051par0520	Congressmans, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my dear friends, it is my great honor to address you in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. (AK PARTY, CHP AND MHP APPLAUSE) I'm so excited, I'm sorry. (AK PARTY, CHP and MHP rows) Why? I love Turkey, and I know its history. I also know that the declaration of Misakimillî was declared by Mebusani of the Ottoman Assembly in İstanbul in January 1920. Later, the Assembly was disbanded by Mebusan. Although many political men were arrested but were arrested, the new National Assembly met in Ankara on 23 April 1920 and declared itself the only legitimate government in the country. That's when the Parliament elected its president, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Respected friends, two Turkish soldiers who held their backs against each other and were bowing arrows at their enemies in the Crimean Kabba Kabaristan were drawn on the stone. Now, that's called the solidarity of friends. The ancient Turks always protected each other's backs, so they did not surrender, even if there were only two. This is the history of the promise of Friend. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] With that understanding, the great Turkish clan was established and survived for two hundred years between 552 and 743. When his brother, Turkish Turk, began to shoot him in the back, the state was devastated. At that time, the boundaries of the khanian were from the Great Wall of China to the Black Sea. From the Great Wall of China to the Black Sea... there were all Turkish peoples in the Danish. This is when the Turks conquered the Central Asia region, and from that time to now they stayed and protected it in the Central Asia region. That's our saying: if you shoot the past with a gun, the future will shoot you with a ball. We must remember and protect our past, and then our future will be bright. Dear friends, friends, in the olden days, our people have always come to each other's aid. When the Great Osman Gazi founded the Ottoman State, there were three main cities in the Byzantine region of Anatolia: Bursa, Akçahuş and Nikiya, the capital of this region, are now the city of Iznik. As you know, no one was able to open Iznik's iron gates during the siege until a force of Kyrgyz soldiers came to help the Turkish army. That day, the Kyrgyz began their offensive in the early ranks of the army, and all the Kyrgyz were martyred during the attack. But in the end, the castle doors had been opened, the Iznik had been conquered, the Byzantine Empire had been defeated. During the siege of Iznik, tens of thousands of soldiers of Orhan Gazi had fallen, but Orhan Gazi had built a shrine for only Kirgyz soldiers. This shrine is now the Kyrgyz Temple in Iznik. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] In 1919, the enemy alliance armies decided to leave only six provinces in place of Turkey's present 81 provinces, you know, they decided to leave only six. When other lands of Izmir and Turkey were occupied by enemy armies, other Central Asian Turkish peoples, including the Kyrgyz, had come to the aid of their brothers. As a aid to the Turkish army, the Turks of Central Asia collected 10 million gold pieces and sent them through the Soviet government. This gold would be billions of dollars today with today's money. Together, we were able to protect Turkey. It's not possible to measure friendship and love with money. For the Kyrgyz, Turkey is a shining star in the night sky. Even though the sky is covered with clouds, we know a star shines behind the clouds. This star is our brother, our friend Turkey. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Dear friends, as I said, the Turkish clan was devastated when the Turks started fighting among themselves, the Turkish Turk, his brother. There are many forces in the present world who want to do evil to the Turkish people. Last month, we spoke with Uzbekistan President Islam Kerimov about the tragic events that occurred in 2010 in south of Kyrgyz, when the two brothers clashed, when the Kyrgyz and Uzbeks killed each other, when Turk hit Turk, when the brother shot the brother, and the Muslim spilled the blood of the Muslim (Muslims). Mr. Islam Kerimov said to me: "Almazbek, the aim of our enemies was not to turn the Kyrgyz and Uzbeks against each other, but rather to turn Kyrgyzistan and Uzbekistan against each other. As a result of this war, they wanted both our republics to be destroyed and destroyed, and the two Turks wanted to destroy the new republic. It's true, it's a painful fact, and such malicious trials will continue. The destruction of Uzbekistan is real, and this is the proper time. Kyrgyzistan declared its independence 20 years ago, but it's not complete independence. Right now, we depend on countries that are economically and technically strong. It's real, it's sad, it's real. We have oil fields, but no one to run them. Every year, with great difficulty, we import fuel from other countries. Our natural resources were being taken out of our country for free. Only three percent of the Qumtor has been removed from our gold mine in the last ten years from more than 10 billion U.S. dollars, and only 3 percent of it has been entered into the treasury of Kyrgyztan. Kyrgyzistan wants to bring down the laptop in exchange for loans and financial support, but we are Turkish, we are the old Turk. (EC PARTY, CHP, MHP rows) And we'll never be slaves, because for every Turk, it's better to die stubbornly than the life of slavery on its knees. [[AK PARTY, CHP, MHP]] My dear friends, my friends, we have chosen the path of parliamentary democracy and the whole world must understand. The power of power depends only on the trust of the peoples. If there's no trust, and the public doesn't want to rule, then no rifle, no gun, no cannon, no tanks can't save power. [[Applause]] Here, this has been made clear by recent developments in Arab countries. In April 2010, the Arab spring movement actually began in Kyrgyztan, as Russian leader Vladimir Putin said. By the way, I would like to point out that Vladimir Putin. As Turkey has done, he has always supported Kyrgyztan. After modern Kyrgyztan became independent, we became members of the Commonwealth. Here, Russia still plays an important role. Russia is the country where more than half a million people live and work. Russia is one of our strategic partners. Recently, the ongoing partnership between Turkey and Russia assures us. All our peoples will benefit from developments in the relationship between Kyrgyztan-Russia and Turkey-Russia. My respectful friends, my friends, the Republic of Turkey is an example of the establishment of a democratic and powerful state. Turkey is like the North Star for the Turkish people today. A democratic and economically strong Turkey gives hope for the bright future of our peoples. The people of the great Turkish clan called themselves,,,,,,,,......, that word is left only in the Kyrgyz, the Hand of Kyrgyz. The peoples of the Turkish clan called heaven "Besiş" (Bebaish) and "Tozok" (Tozok) to hell. Tozok is a trap in Turkish. Slavery is worse than death, hell for the Turk, and only we, Kyrgyz, remember those words. Kyrgyz are the oldest of the Turkish peoples. We are ancient Turks, we have preserved the oldest words, customs, customs, and the essence of Turks. Of course, Turkey is home, our homeland is Turkey. But, my friends, let us know that there is a place where our ancestors set out to come to Anatolia. Where did our ancestors come from? It's a place for a horse, a place for a horse. Don't forget, our ancestors were martyrs in this land for Turkey today. I know how much Mr. President Abdullah Gul and Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan want to help Kyrgyzistan. Therefore, lawmakers, I address you and all the Turkish people. History has given us another opportunity. Even if we can't establish the great Turkish clan, at least we must consolidate the brotherhood of the Turkish states. (EC PARTY, CHP and HHP rows) Hopefully, we'll have to do a strong Turkish union. (AK PARTI, CHP and MHP) However, for this reason, not only should Turkey, other Turkish republics be strong, standing, economically developed, powerful states; both in Kyrgyzistan and Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, all of them. It's just that if there's a Turkish republic, Turkey would be difficult. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Dear friends, friends, may the souls of our ancestors who laid the foundation of great Turkey and died together help us. May God help us all. All the best to the Turkish nation. May God keep it, keep it, keep it good. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit01spe0052par0549	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of parliament, President of the Republic of Kyrgyz, Mr. Almazbek Atambayev and his delegation are leaving the General Assembly, accompanied by Mr. Cemil Cicek, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0052par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue to discuss the Republican People's Party Group's proposal according to the 19th Amendment. Now it's time for...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0053par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0052par0005	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0053par0006	I'd like to make a statement regarding the roll call just now. If you'll excuse me, I'll be speaking from the stand in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0052par0007	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0053par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we've just asked for a poll as Republican People's Party Group during the voting of a group's proposal for a nationalist Action Party group, and we've demanded that over 20 of our friends stand up. I noticed that there was a hesitation about whether the number was 20, but more than 20 of our friends were standing on the Presidential Court. As a result, 20 people were found to have been completed, and the process was concluded. I've come to the Court, and I've received the list of the clerk friend who lives on your right... of course, it could be a mistake, it could be a mistake, it's a human condition, it's normal, it's in such intensity, it's a member of parliament, it's a person, it can make mistakes, it's very understanding, but I've noticed that the names that Mr. President said were not noted by the Court of Divan, and I've recorded what he said when he said a few things to himself. Basically, the clerks at the Presidential Court are there to help the President, so I'll just write it down by leaving the entire load on the President. I don't think it's right to say it, but it's the President's discretion. That's not what I'm going to say, the president says, so I wrote it down. I've got the transcripts, Mr. President says that Mr. Flood Köse is not on this list. Mr. Ihsan Ozkes says he's not on this list. There are other examples. Now, it's not the duty of the clerks to sit there and watch, but the clerks will do their duty, and if they've made a mistake, I'm sorry. He says, "I've made a mistake." And it'll be over, but you won't be able to take the fall, and you won't do your duty. There's no way that's acceptable. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0054par0014	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. There's been some setbacks. I've already told you, we'll consider it. Sivas MP Hilmi Bilgin against the Republican People's Party proposal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Scholar.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0055par0022	Mr. President, I have made a pledge by the Republican People's Party Group against the group's proposal for the agenda of the parliamentary research proposal, issued under the provisions of the Constitution in accordance with the 98th and Interior Charter, in order to investigate the conditions and health issues of the sick prisoners, whose rights are guaranteed and responsible by the Republican People's Party Group. On this occasion, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, the basis of government programmes and activities of the EC PARTY is human. We, as a party, let the people live so that the state can live. We acted with understanding, and that understanding was the basis of all our actions. The focus of service and action continues to increase our nation's support for us so far, since we have acted with an understanding that is based on the people, the people, the nation. Dear MPs, the 17th article of our Constitution has the right to live, maintain and develop its material and spiritual existence. The right to live is the most fundamental and superior of human rights. This right is guaranteed by our Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In that sense, all prisoners and prisoners are naturally entitled to those rights, as other free people are. It is the basic duty of government and governments to protect, treat, and provide the right to live a human life. During the EC PARTY administrations, significant and serious steps have been taken to improve the conditions of the life of prisoners and prisoners who remain in prisons and prisons, and the work in this direction continues without slowing down. In this scope, the practices involving prisoners and prisoners who have health problems in prisons include: First examinations and treatment services for the protection of the body and mental health of convicted prisoners are provided at the institution for the diagnosis of disease, further examinations, treatments and rehabilitation requirements are referred to state hospitals, further health care services are required by the law, and all kinds of treatments are carried out under the guarantee and free of charge of the state. In prisons where there is no study, treatment and health care monitoring and in hospitals, there is a need for examination, treatment and medical follow-ups of prisoners and prisoners in prison wards, state hospitals and university hospitals, in accordance with human and patient rights, it is organised in accordance with medical necessity and legislation. It is also carried out in accordance with a medical board report conducted by relevant hospitals on prisoners and inmates in the penal institution who are in need of physical rehabilitation. The treatment and follow-up are being carried out here by the attendings, who are required to be hospitalized and treated for physically disabled prisoners and prisoners. In the event that the medical examiner's report is reportedly mandatory, he will be accompanied by the person involved. Throughout the period of 30 April 2009 when the Protocol for the Order of Health Services in the Ministry of Health and Justice and the Criminal Execution Institutions took effect, the convicted and imprisoned person, the institution staff, and the number of people they are responsible for caring for were more than 5,000 Ankara Sincan, İstanbul Silivri, İstanbul Maltese and Kopeli detention institutions have opened up to hospitals in which the Ministry of Health has been eligible. Health care at criminal execution institutions, which have not yet been applied to family medicine, is conducted by physicians assigned by the municipal health departments or by institutional physicians who have not switched to the Ministry of Health. Again, there is a dental unit in the prison execution institution as of 2010, where there is a total dental medicine service. Dear lawmakers, as you know, there is a Human Rights Review Commission within our High Assembly. This commission has been doing important and results from the day it was founded. During this period, the Human Rights Review Commission established and began its work as a subcommittee to investigate criminal execution institutions and detention centres. The subcommittee has members of all our parties. This commission, which has been active and results-oriented, has already conducted investigations of the Iconian and Sincan prisons, identifying problems and problems if there are any. The subcommittee will also conduct investigations and investigations in Gaziantep military, civilian open prisons, Kilis Prison, Sivas and Samsun prisons in the coming weeks. With a working programme like this, all criminal execution institutions in Turkey will be examined by Parliament. The Human Rights Review Commission, as I mentioned, is doing effective and results-taking work. Only a few examples of these studies are that the right of prisoners and prisoners to negotiate in the main language has been granted, that the only type of dress application applied in military prisons has been eliminated, and that the implementation of military prisons enforcement regulations has been made transparent again. As I briefly stated, the subcommittee established by the Human Rights Review Commission is not only the patient who remains in prisons, but also the person who finds the problems of all prisoners and prisoners in person and is making efforts to resolve them. The issues involved in the Republican People's Party group proposal are already being reviewed by the Human Rights Review Commission by our supreme Assembly. Therefore, the Republican People's Party group proposal is intended to change the agenda of Parliament, and we are not participating in the group proposal. I hereby salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0056par0039	Thank you, Mr. Scholar. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. Here you go, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0057par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute you all. Before we get to the point, you know, a mass grave appeared during the restoration work in a place known as JITEM's interrogation center in Diyarbakır where the old prison has been in Diyarbakir for two days, and the bones of eight people have been reached. Actually, it's a serious problem. Of course, this is a torture center. It's very important to draw attention to missing persons in custody, to the deaths in custody. To demonstrate the 12 September regime once again, especially the war stemming from the Kurdish issue in Turkey is important for showing serious rights violations, rights violations, in the '90s, especially in the '80s. It's also important that the site of the excavation has been expanded, but so far, in the fact of the mass graves, we've found that only bones appear. These bones... so the mentality that caused those mass graves is not yet on trial, and the true responsible there are not on trial. Our hope today is that those who cause this situation will be brought to light and judged by this mentality. Otherwise, it's just a dig, and, you know, human bones can't go beyond the fact that they've been found. Members of parliament, the group proposal by the Republican People's Party is actually very important and it represents the reality of Turkey. There's a serious full-fledged situation in prisons. Every day, it's actually a ball of trouble. Today, according to the Department of Justice's data, there are a total of 122,404 prisoners and convicts in prison, including 35,183 prisoners, 20,224 prisoners, 66,997 prisoners. There are serious problems in that sense. Besides, the condition of these prisoners' right of life is a serious problem. There's a capacity problem in prisons. There's a thousand people left in prison for 300. In particular, with operations under the name of the TK, it has become increasingly fast, so people, two or three people, have to sleep together. These are serious problems. Again in prison, health conditions are seriously problematic. People don't have access to the human condition. The government is responsible for this. The prisons are connected to the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice practices in prisons according to Law 5275. According to human rights organizations' reports, there is a serious human rights violation in this area. We believe this House is responsible for its investigation and the resolving of the problems here. It's a very serious problem, especially with the sick prisoners. Mr. Pervin Buldan, our Deputy Director of the Group, recently expressed the condition of a patient prisoner here. A few hours later, unfortunately, he had to express his death on this stand. There are still over 50 prisoners on the death line. There's something seriously wrong with that. In the matter of the President's pardon earlier, especially on the terms of the terms of the special pardons under Article 104, I'm afraid this period, Mr. President is being very stingy about it. In 2008, two people, seven people in 2009, two people in 2010 were suspended due to illness, but there are many people in this situation. There's no sanction. This is a serious problem. Because these human rights in prisons are actually important for Turkey to demonstrate its democracy. In Turkey, of course, the situation of political prisoners is worse. Turkey's political picture reflects political developments in Turkey directly on prisons. In prisons, this isolation is turning into isolation policies. Here, the congressman just said: "They can talk on the phone in the mother tongue." Most of the time, they're restricted. Here, the newspapers that broadcast in the native language don't get picked up. These are very serious problems, not just... Here, we'd like to, you know, express these approaches to the solution of the problem from here. There are most serious rights violations in human rights, especially in Samsun Bafra, Giresun, Tripoli, Rize Tetovo and Erzurum prisons. These are basically health problems, transfers, abuses done during transfers, restrictions imposed on telecommunications rights, disciplinary penalties, violations stemming from capacity in prison, the removal of radios due to harmful publications, the obstruction of sports and hobby rights, from time to time facing judicial prisoners and political prisoners. Especially in these prisons, it's a serious problem and it's causing conflict. Again, let's say the view is that the ten-hour conversation rights aren't applied. These are serious problems in prisons, and these problems need to be resolved. It's clear that power remains insensitive, silent to these problems. Every day, especially in F-type prisons, we get complaints about serious human rights violations and torture -- probably coming to the Human Rights Commission. Some books, for example, don't go to prison. In fact, it is not acceptable for a government who complains about the September 12th regime to implement the 12th regime in prisons. This is a serious problem, and it is imperative that the government investigate this issue in prisons, especially in the case of sick prisoners. Members of parliament, a special situation in particular related to the problems in prisons is also related to the Imralı system. You know, there are five political prisoners in the Imralı prison with Mr. Abdullah Ocalan, and there are serious isolations here today from July 27th. He's not being interviewed by his family or his lawyers, Mr. Ocalan. Let's let him talk to his parents and lawyers, his lawyers have been taken into custody and arrested in the past few months. Actually, the right to defend was violated. This is a serious problem, and Turkey has to put it on the agenda. As long as the Imralı system is not eliminated, it is not possible to achieve real social peace in Turkey, democracy, human rights and freedoms. Every day on this bench, the government states that Turkey is the world's 17th largest economy, but the Imran Kosteri is always broken. Does the government have no money to buy an Imran? If he doesn't have the money, let him testify, let his family and relatives have this cosy, because this is a very important matter. It is not in the interest of anyone, especially the government, to ignore this situation in Turkey, which is really on the agenda of solving the Kurdish problem, causing crises, causing conflict, deepening the war. It seems that in İmrali prison, the AKP government is implementing a special policy. Here's a draft law. And in drafting this law, it's about limiting to six months of incarceration and not seeing his lawyers, and he's already legalizing what he's doing. This is a serious problem. So nowhere in the world is a private law. There's no such thing anywhere in the world, there's no such thing in democracies, but there's this situation in Turkey. Even in law enforcement, an approach that even regulates the law is not acceptable because Abdullah Ocalan is going to take advantage of it. The immediate removal of the Imralı system, the creation of conditions on the democratic and peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem, is important for Turkey's future, and important for the solution of the Kurdish problem. It's a delicate matter. I'm not saying that taking this delicate issue at a negative point, but at a positive point, I'm saying it's going to win Turkey. Congressmans, as a result, we would like to propose that this motion for research be extended, of course. So as the Peace and Democracy Party, we've actually submitted a lot of research motions, law proposals, question motions for rights violations in prisons. In particular, we need to take an urgent step towards the condition of the sick prisoners. There must be some legal arrangements in this matter. The third joke of Article 16 of Penal Code 5275 must be corrected immediately. Because based on this law, there are actually serious rights violations. Because the coroner has to decide who's sick. No matter where all the sick prisoners are in Turkey, Ankara will come to Istanbul at work, to the forensic center, where the decision will be made, and the court will decide. This is a serious problem. The Human Rights Commission, of course, is going to visit some prisons, but that's not enough. In particular, it is important that human rights organisations, these institutions, some civilian communities, again, go to prisons and identify rights violations in prisons. There's a serious rights violation problem in the prisons. He's got staff problems, hospital problems, ring problems. All of these problems, instead of actually opening up serious new prisons, to the current prisons, because that's the government's basic policy, because they're constantly opening new prisons for new arrests. Instead of opening a new prison, it must bring the existing prisons to a condition that will provide human life opportunities. After all, the people who live there are human... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You have to make an adjustment before you forget that.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0058par0058	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. It's Kurskkale MP Ramazan Can against you. Here you are, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0059par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We do not agree with the Republican People's Party's group proposal to change the agenda for the opening of parliamentary research, which the Constitution has given to Articles 98, Parliamentary Council Article 104 and 105. The Republican People's Party spokesman came here, didn't even feel the need to explain the group proposal. We see, they don't talk about the agenda of the House, they don't talk about its materials, but interestingly, they didn't talk about changing the agenda they gave themselves, they didn't talk about the math group proposal, they went into other areas. Of course, the House wants to be briefed on the public opinion group proposal. It is also considered to be given to the EC PARTY. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as you know on the agenda of the House, there is a 11-point proposal to change the law and to change some laws. We've been discussing this proposal for two weeks, and unfortunately, because of this group's suggestions, we have not been able to go further than the third amendment. We want to run the House, there are certain expectations in the public opinion that this law proposal will be enforced. We have to try to make this law. That's why we're telling the group proposal that we disagree because it's a math to change the agenda. So, what does the Republican People's Party want with this group's proposal? The Republican People's Party wants to bring up the health problems, treatment problems of prisoners and prisoners in prison on this group's recommendation. The right to live is sacred, the most important of human rights, an intransitable right. In fact, the treatment of prisoners and prisoners who are sick in prison is primarily performed at police clinics in prison, and is referred to hospitals if there is an advanced disease. The point where he can stay in hospitals with or accompanied company is with the health report and the doctor's discretion. The state has an obligation to treat prisoners and prisoners under its protection, which is a state's duty. The state does so within the framework of a protocol signed by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health in the sense that it will be carried out in Turkey. Protecting the body and mental health of a convicted prisoner, diagnosis, treatment and examination are provided by the state for free. This means that all of his medical expenses are covered by the state, which he conducted in prison clinics and university hospitals prior to the prison and hospital. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are doing necessary rehabilitation work at the prison. At this point, I'd like to mention a few things about nutrition. According to Article 72 of the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security Measures, the protocol signed between the Ministry of Justice and Health provides food according to the daily list of calories for prisoners and prisoners. If there is a disease that requires special treatment, if the disease is possible, if the diet is needed, dietary treatment is also provided with the diagnosis and discretion of a doctor. Again, a list of foods for vegan or vegetarians as a vital part of their faith, and there's also the Department of Justice's work on that, and there will be demands for these to be met. Mr. President, the doctor's request for a medical report at the request of the patient will be received and will be applied to the legal and administrative aspects of this issue after the medical report is received. Mr. President, no one can address a terrorist leader in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If he refers to you as your servant, it must be done. We specifically say that the Peace and Democracy Party's Speaker, who begins with the following words together with the following words, must face an sanction.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0060par0071	What does that have to do with anything? We're gonna ask you what we're gonna call him!
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0059par0072	Because if a person in the Turkish Grand National Assembly who deals with state-run and indivisible integrity is in prison, the state will take the necessary precautions.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0061par0073	We don't need you to tell us who to call! Mind your own business!
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0059par0074	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have announced that we have not participated in the Republican People's Party's group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0062par0076	Thank you, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0063par0077	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit02spe0062par0078	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0062par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 51st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal according to the 19th Amendment was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. Congressmans, we now move on to the agenda of "The Bill of Law and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions." Among the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Kazakhstan, we will resume talks between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 22, 2009. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will now resume the negotiations of Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and Bursa MP Hüseyin Şahin, who are in the 2nd place, as well as the Charter's Charter 375, and the Plan and Budget Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. In yesterday's merger, the Peace and Democracy Party Group spoke on Article 3 of the proposal. There are no further demands or questions. Now, I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the third article is accepted. Now, I'm going to read the 4th article: MADDE 4- Other articles of this Law are in effect on the date of publication, including Articles 2 and 3 of this Law, which are valid from 15/11/2011. A statement on the 4th Amendment on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0064par0021	No.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0062par0022	No promises, fine. There's no demand for words on behalf of groups or individuals. No questions, no answers. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, now, the whole proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, Ağrı MP Ekrem Çelebi and Bursa MP Hüseyin Şahin have taken an open vote on the amendment to some Laws under the Constitution of 375. ▪ Number of votes used: 208 [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Muhammad Bilal Macit Thus, the offer has been accepted and legalized. We will now begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report, which is in the 3rd place, in accordance with the Agreement on the Two Trade and Economic Co-operation Between the Government of the People's Republic of China, that the Framework Agreement on Deverement is appropriate. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 48 rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner will speak on the whole bill... A request for a personal word? I take it you've withdrawn the promises here? No. On the whole bill...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0065par0050	Mr. President, on all of it, Nevzat won't be afraid, but on the commission, he will be.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0062par0051	We've moved on to the individuals, sir. We've passed all of them. Thus, I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The development and development of the economic and economic establishment of the Chinese government of the Republic of Turkey and the establishment of the government of the Chinese people. PROGRAMS OF THE BLOOD TO FIND THE SLEEPING MADDE 1- (1) was approved on October 8, 2010 in Ankara, with the approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Two Trade and Economic Co-operation Between the Government of the People's Republic of China. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Adana MP Umit Özgüşmiş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozgim. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0066par0061	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. In the last 20 years, one of the most successful countries in the world in the economy, perhaps the most successful Chinese People's Republic. The People's Republic of China is one of the few countries in the world that has been constantly increasing exports, which can increase growth in times of crisis, and its economic policies give about 200 billion dollars a year more foreign trade per year. It protects its own economy, protects its own agriculture, and the underlying reason is it's using an economic policy that protects global thinking and national interests. For that reason, Turkey is constantly giving its foreign trade deficit, while the People's Republic of China is giving its economy more than foreign trade. Turkey and China's foreign trade continue to give a public statement against Turkey. The Turkish-Chinese foreign trade deficit, which was against Turkey for around $1 billion in 2002, reached about 18 billion -- 18 times as much as 2010. The framework, which will be discussed today, must be dealt with in the agreement or in all bilateral trade relations with the People's Republic of China, to close this foreign trade deficit against Turkey, which has to be relevant, and this trade has to be resolved. But, of course, not only with China, but with many countries of the world, we continue to promote trade deficits and trade deficits against Turkey. One of the main reasons is that Turkey, especially in international relations, in foreign relations, without sails, follows a policy that moves according to the wind. Because we all know that good political relations in international relations, good international relations trade, positive influence of trade, influence of bilateral relations, politics, are the processes that feed each other. But Turkey, especially recently, in international relations, has broken relations with many countries because of some international relations that we actually understand -- let's say we don't -- but we don't -- because of some international relations. See, in 2003, when the export strategy for 2013 was announced in the AKP ruling period, the main point of the 2013 export strategy was to trade with the neighbours, because in the global competition, transportation was now an important cost factor. For him, trade with the neighbors first. In order for trafficking with neighbors to be right, good relations with neighbors must first be established. Now, three months from now, until four months ago, when Turkey was implementing zero problem policy, what happened in three months to get to the point of fighting all the neighbors and fighting some neighbors? The AKP's ruling should explain these things in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which may be unexplainable, but in general it has to respect the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and explain to the Grand National Assembly why our foreign policy, international relations, suddenly changed 180 degrees in this way. Three months ago, four months ago, he went to Syria and attended dinner at the house of Bezar Assad. Three months ago, Bekzar Assad was my brother. He was saying that the visa agreement between Syria and Turkey in accordance with the good relations has also been lifted, the visa requirement has been lifted, the free trade agreements have been signed, and our trade has been increased. But suddenly, wherever that order came from, he suddenly declared war on Syria by subcontractorizing the Republic of Turkey, right around the time our commercial relations developed, right around the time our trades with that country in the south, southeast. Now, my dear friends, as I was telling you in a speech here, the AKP's then absentee -- the Deputy Director of the Group said: "They burned our flag." If burning the flag is considered a cause of war in a country, it is shameful to say, that our youth burned the American flag. Your young men also burned the flag of Israel every Friday after leaving the mosque in Istanbul. Young people of many countries burned the flag of many countries while protesting in many places. Just 15 days ago, 20 days ago, the flag of England was burned in Iran. So far, it has been unclear who burned Turkey's flag in Syria. Did the agents do it? Did the punks do it? Did the Muslim brothers who are standing up there right now do it? I don't know if it was a provocation. But I'd like to ask you, if you're so sensitive to the burning of our flag and you're taking such an honorable stand, seven, eight years ago, the head of a Turkish Armed Forces soldier and his officer was put in a bag. We don't know who burned our flag in Syria, but who put a bag over our soldier's head, by his identity, by his name, by his rank, by his country. If you're really so sensitive, why didn't you show that sensitivity there? You should have declared war on the United States of America. If you cannot declare war on the United States of America, you should have closed İncirlik. If you could fire the Americans from Figrique. Come on, we've given it all up. If you could just call the U.S. Ambassador and get an ear. So you're not very convincing about this sort of thing. So Turkey, which is now at the point of war with Turkey, has no reason to fight Syria. There's a negotiation here on the blood of our children. We don't know what that bargain is. Again, there's a negotiation on the blood of our children. That negotiation must be announced here, in open session or closed session. Otherwise, Turkey will sink into Syria, enter the Middle East, and turn this way in particular, and I will address my friends, my friends, my lawmakers, and I will tell them that when Turkey enters the Middle East, it will never come out again. If he enters Syria for the sake of subcontractorship, for the subcontract of the West, if he enters the Middle East, he will not fight Syria alone, he will fight Iran, he will fight Russia, he will fight Talabani, Barzani, and he will fight with the United States. And what's going to come up behind that is the declaration of independence in the southeast, if the central authority weakens, if the armed forces enter the swamp there. And I'm just saying that to make a note of it from here to history. Because all these separatist movements and actions in the world that are going to change the regime come out after central authority weakens. After World War II, you will understand what I mean if you examine the movements that have been developing west of the Soviet Union and in the middle of Europe. Of course, that's not enough, so we just don't know what's going on in Syria, and we don't know what's going on elsewhere. For example, in my speech here the other day, I said: "Our friends from the Republican People's Party are making motions, during budget talks. The Mukhtars are not well, the pensioners are not well. People are starving after the earthquake, there's no resources. But I said: "By what authority do you take $300 million of money, whose money and send it to Libya in a bag?" One, the Foreign Minister, who had first won a victory, said: "We sent $300 million to the rebels there. In July, while there was still a government in Libya, the Finance Minister said behind him -- now in my room -- that 300 million dollars is the loan that we sent to him. Behind him, during my speech, our Minister of Industry said that there is no loan. It is the dissolution of Libya's money, which is found in Turkey under international agreements. • Someone is not telling the truth. The three ministers speaking on behalf of the government are speaking separately, and they need to come out. If it's really a loan, there's a mistake and a lie because you're not dealing with a government right now. The money you're giving is a money given to the rebels there while there's still a state, a government in Libya. If Gaddafi really had succeeded there and the rebels had failed, how would you get that $300 million back? For him, as in many matters now, as in the economy, especially in international relations, many things are hidden from Turkey, Turkey is being led further and further into a war swamp. I salute you all again with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0067par0075	Thank you, Mr. Ozgim. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Isparta MP Nevzat is not afraid. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0068par0079	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Dear MPs, there are some nations, some countries, some countries, where you've been having relations with them, how many centuries it's been going on, and you're not able to detect them; you're going to tell the history of one of them, and you're going to tell the past of the other; that's what the People's Republic of China is for the Turkish nation. The earliest information you've identified in the Turkish historical name is also recorded in Chinese history. Sharing such a profound past involves a neighbourly relationship of common pain, sorrows, tribulations, and joys, sharing a common climate, geography. As we migrated from Central Asia to Anatolia, we carried their memories. We also entrusted China with our precious lives, our memories, even the graves of our ancestors, our grandfathers. Dear lawmakers are two nations that exist in every century and shape human history in every century, Chinese and Turks. Sometimes one takes over the flagship of civilization, writes history, sometimes the other. At times, one was powerful in song and the other in Front Asia and the West, designing human history. In our recent political history, our diplomatic relations with China began on August 4, 1971. When we look at the qualities of political relations, these relationships are more in the form of visits at the level of ministers, which is called low-density relationships because the diplomatic response is not at the level of heads of state and prime minister. Valuable MPs, both China and Turkey are among the countries in their territory and at the global level that have a say, should be so. We're all going through the problems of a one-polar world, the whole world is going through it. International law has been almost completely in control of power for a long time, determined by power. The leader of a single- pole world, the United States, is trying to control any country, any event, that would oppose its own power in order to retain that advantage for a long time. It's not just the present, it's the reason sometimes. The U.S. sees that the most important opposition to its own power is China, which strips off its population of 1.5 billion people and its vast geography to the world's economic leadership, especially because it thinks that there is a Shanghai Co-operation Agency, which is part of China and Russia, because it knows that almost half of the world's population belongs to countries that are created at a global level. At the 2007 summit in Bishkek, the Russian President of the period, Mr. Putin, the one- pole world is unacceptable. The word also reveals the agency's mission. The first serious anti-US step in Shanghai Co-operation was taken in 2005. This meeting called on the United States to end its military presence in Central Asia. At the end of this call, U.S. troops in Uzbekistan left the country. After that, the story everyone knows is that the region has been confused, confused, that events have cost hundreds of lives, the peace of the country. Even if not today, regional cooperation is even more important in the threats tomorrow. Thus, the country's governments are obliged to expand and develop this co-operation. For our country, the solution to regional problems must not be neglected and the development of political, economic relations and strengthening of co-operation. As for our economic relations, the People's Republic of China is our largest commercial partner in the Far East, and the third largest country in which we import in the world. The trade volume, which was around $1 billion in 99, has increased nearly 20 times, but the increase in trade volume has always been against Turkey. Our imports from China are nearly nine stories ahead of our exports. The most important handicap in our economic relations is this imbalance that is growing against us. Dear lawmakers, if we take a look at the 2010 figures, the number of imports is about $17 billion, and exports are around $2 billion, $2,260 million, and we're about $15 billion short. China is the fastest growing economy in the world, and its economy gives about 100 billion dollars more foreign trade per year. China, a member of the World Trade Organization, which co-organises the planning process with the free market economy, removes obstacles to foreign capital, will soon become the world's largest economy. Turkey must study the rapidly growing Chinese market very well and look for ways to improve the negative foreign trade balance and increase its market share. It is also known that Turkey, the gateway to the West, is important to China and to the West. Turkey and China are two strong countries in Central Asia and the Middle East that can achieve co-operation and co-operation. With these developments, we have to say that military relations between the two countries are getting stronger and more intense. The bilateral visits of military authorities continue. Dear MPs, when I say "Chinese," I'd like to bring the Taiwan matter to your agenda and bring it to your reviews. Taiwan is a country that represents all of China until 1971, where the United Nations has agreed to deal with it, in 1971 it was taken from Taiwan and given to the People's Republic of China and its status was accepted by Turkey. Taiwan, one of the richest countries in the world with a national income of $35,000, has some demands from the Republic of Turkey. One is to open a business and culture office in Istanbul. Although this demand has caused the reaction of the People's Republic of China, we know that there are 12 offices in the United States, 5 in Japan, 2 offices in Germany, and they increase trade volumes through these offices. The second demands are the launch of Turkey's direct flights to Taiwan. Transferring flights can take up to 20 hours, about a day. The third demand is that Taiwan unilaterally, unilaterally, unilaterally lifts its visa process to Turkey. Today, there is no country in the world that does not apply visas to Turkey. Taiwan is thinking of removing a visa for Turkish citizens to improve growing trade and cultural relations with our country and starting talks with officials about it. Ankara's Taiwanese policy is slow and uneasy under the influence of the People's Republic of China, but a number of developments in the country's trade and cultural life will also make our relations with the People's Republic of China multi-dimensional. Dear lawmakers, there are many areas of cooperation we're referring to, but there are some issues between the People's Republic of China and our country. The most important problem is the violation of human rights and freedoms in the Uygur Autonomous Region in the People's Republic of China. The Uygur's own territory was occupied by the Chinese Manchu Empire in 1759, and hundreds of resistance have been demonstrated to break this invasion from then until now. Three states have been established in history, such as the Islamic State of East Turkistan, the Islamic Republic of East Turkistan, and the Republic of East Turkistan. Despite thousands of years of common history and experience with China, China's era governances have implemented systematic violent policies to keep East Turkistan under its sovereignty, and the communist system established in the country after 1949 has, unfortunately, taken its assimilation policies to a more sophisticated size. Throughout the 90s, religious activities have been restricted, mosques have been closed, meetings have been blocked, religious education has been banned, and atheistic policies have been returned to education. Turkey, which has thousands of years of common history and history with China, has entrusted itself with its Uygur brothers, is deeply upset by the situation and has created a negative image of China in Turkish public. Despite all negative elements, however, we know that Turkey has policies that are in line with the interests of both countries with China, and we express our faith that this agreement will serve that purpose. I ask that the treaty we discussed bring blessings to the people of both countries, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0069par0102	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. There's no demand for words. No questions. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. Article 2 ▪ In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On the 2nd article, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal is on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0070par0111	I can tell they're going on a Chinese expedition!
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0071par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Mr. Aslanoglu said they were going to the Chinese expedition. He's right. In the past month, we made a visit to the People's Republic of China. We also consider this agreement as an opportunity to share our observations and cooperation and what needs to be done here, briefly with you. My dear friends, China is a country that has been spoken so much in recent years. As a rising force, it's a country that's been discussed in all economic and political circles, and it's a country that's been trying to improve its relations with our country a little bit more in the last few years, in line with this outgoing policy. In the late 1970s, an outgoing policy, which started at the end of the 1970s and accelerated from the 80s and gained even more speed in the 2000s, follows a controlled opening policy. In this framework, of course, it is a country in which Turkey should seriously study and develop its relations as it moves from one polarity to multipolarism again in the post-cold war world order. Its economic structure, dear friends, although under the leadership of a communist party, continues, in a controlled, public and private sector partnership towards a market economy, and they continue with these openings, with their recent work and international meetings. When we look at it in general, first from a commercial and economic perspective... Mr. President, I think most of your friends are on the phone. I'm literally talking in a hum.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0072par0119	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0071par0120	I mean, they may not listen, but at least if we keep the peace, I'm talking about something important, and it's important for our country. For that, we've already made promises, even though there's an international agreement.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0072par0121	Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0071par0122	Dear friends, the world now has the Chinese People's Republic, which has become its second largest economic power since last year, and it has an illegal domestic product that is expected to reach about 7 trillions this year. For the past year, there's 5.8 trillion GDP, and every year, they're giving more than $200 billion in foreign trade. For us, of course, when we look at the figures on Turkey, although there has been a significant increase in trade volumes in recent years, despite the increase in exports, we also set records in general exports. Our external trade volume is increasing. The openness against us is growing much faster when we should rejoice. This year, an external trade deficit -- much more than $16 billion -- is expected to be between the two countries. Last year, again, when we looked at the numbers, a $15 billion deficit had developed against us. This needs to be developed. In our talks with the authorities, they believe that some bilateral agreements are being made, and that the agreement on the trade, the economy that we approve today, will contribute to that framework. Of course, here, our observations aren't just about business, we need to look at the headlines. What goods, what products do we import? Why do we have so many foreign trade deficits? As of the first ten months, we have $18 billion in imports this year, on the other hand, an export that doesn't have $2 billion, and we have a $16 billion, 300 million foreign trade deficit. We talked to them about it. Of course, we know the government has its work, and Mr. Calashan said they're working on the input supply system, and they haven't briefed us yet, and we're waiting as Plan and Budget Commission on where that project is. Because when we look at a large portion of the goods that we import, unfortunately, can be produced in Turkey, but because of the distortions in the courtship regime and some problems in the courtship policy, we import a large portion of it and primarily from China. Now, when I look at the first ten items in our imports, there's a large number of machines, devices, but other than that, textile products, goods, toys, tools, things that don't require too much technology. There are also technological products in China, but when we look at them, there are some raw materials and simple products that can be produced in Turkey -- about $18 to $19 billion -- which makes up about 12 to 13 billion. For him, this matter must be reviewed immediately and this initial work must be expedited. In their relationship with Turkey -- our friends just briefly mentioned -- there will be developments this year and in the next year, with a framework agreement launched in 2009. This year it is declared the Year of Chinese Culture in Turkey, with the organisation of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and next year it will be the Year of Turkish Culture in China. We've got to make it a means to an end. I've also spoken to the authorities there as Antalya MP, and unfortunately, we don't get a cut of the Chinese tourist cake. So they're sending over 50 million tourists. Of course, compared to the population of China, in the population of about 1.4 billion people, and when we look at economically wealthy populations, the Chinese tourist is literally moving to different countries around the world. We need to make this culture year an opportunity to focus on tourism and promotional work. From here, as representative of the government, we don't have Mr. Minister of Culture, but let's give it to him. They have that kind of expectation. It's both important for the development of relationships and we need a share of tourism revenues. China, on the other hand, has an important surplus of resources and holds close to $1.5 billion of its reserves in treasury bonds and American dollars. I mean, we're looking at it now, and we seem to have achieved a significant success when we found $300,500 million in funding from right, left, small countries, Gulf countries, when we had a crisis. But we have a country ahead of us that is seriously beyond saving. With mutual agreements with them, there's a large amount of foreign Chinese investments going abroad in particular. In Africa, Asia, and countries in Central Asia, we discussed the need for joint investments in this matter. But of course, it's the government's job to speed up the initiative and do the necessary work. As a National Movement Party, if there is any work to be done on this subject, we will support you in the framework of our constructive, guiding opposition, and we will do whatever it takes to improve export growth, to balance imports, to cover our foreign trade deficit with China. Of course, we'll support you in the work on tourism. My dear friends, when I just said Mr. Aslanoglu, we made important visits. We just listened to the President of Kyrgyztan, and we were all touched by what he said and applauded standing up. When we went there, we visited the shrines of Joseph Has Hacib, Mahmoud of Kashgar, and Apak Hoxha. We've seen what's done there once again in their books, in their explanations. But again, I particularly beg of our Ministry of Culture, and we've seen that they also need care in terms of environmental arrangement. I know that certain studies are being done in certain places, and I know the sensitivity of relations with China. But since I know that this is the year of Chinese Culture, and that this is going to be the year of Turkish Culture in China next year, I think that these cultural monuments can be considered together, and even as partners, a joint research institute can be established by the establishment of a Kashgar Mahmoud Institute. It's a debt to our history, to our past. As I was listening to what Mr. President just said here, I felt the need again to bring these to your attention. Because, for many years, Mahmoud of Kashgar -- who had traveled for more than a year, over fifteen years -- took out the first Turkish language, lugatini, encyclopedias, geography, maps, all of them. So let's make this an opportunity, in this frame, with the deals to be made, and we'll get that out of the way. I find it important both to promote Turkey and to meet a debt to our own history, to our culture. The two countries, as rising countries in the multipolar world, are rationally supporting these relations to be the leading country in Turkey's region, to be the leading country in 2023. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Hopefully, as the President of Kyrgyz said, it will lead to unity, and Turkish states will form economic and cultural unity among themselves, he says, with respect.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0073par0132	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Isparta MP Ali Haydar Öner. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Proposal.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0074par0136	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, I would like to present my views on our relations with China with two beautiful phrases. First, the famous Chinese philosopher Confucius. What Confucius says: "Those who remember past resentment cannot build new friendships. " Another is the great Ataturk: peace in the land, peace in the land. Indeed, we have had many years of neighboring relations with the Chinese, and we have helped build one of the seven wonders of the world, the Great Wall of China. But we've already forgotten about past resentments, and we're in the process of building new friendships. As with all the countries of the world, we face some problems in China. Our great Leader, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, says peace in the yurtta, peace in the world. The world's second largest economy exports about 1.2 trillions and imports $1.03. Turkey's share is in Chinese imports, 1 in a thousand as of the goods taken by China, 1 per cent as of exports to Turkey, so there's a huge deficit in foreign trade balance. However, there are positive relationships that have been developing in recent years. Especially our ministers, Turkish businessmen' travel, at the same time strengthening friendship relations, political ties, while boosting commercial and economic potential. The Chinese also know Turkey's strategic location, its location in Central Asia and the Balkans, and its location in the Middle East. One of the ways to establish good relations with soy-friendly republics is to improve their relationship with Turkey. We've just heard from our President of Kyrgyztan with very warm feelings. Our Kyrgyz brothers are developing relations with the Russians because today's world is about improving business relations, raising citizens' economic prosperity. In Europe, despite all our efforts in the European Union, we are unable to make the progress we want. It hurts our pride to be treated as other people at customs gates, but we are more welcome in the soy republics and in China. The 2012 Year of Chinese Culture will increase improvements in Turkey, and in 2013 it will affect sympathetic feelings, commercial and economic relations, political approaches in China. Considering that China is a member of the Security Council, we can also consider that improving our relations with China will have a very positive political effect. China has a unique economic model. They call themselves the People's Republic, they call themselves the Communist China, but their original economic models have all the characteristics of capitalist approaches. In that regard, it seems useful for both countries to invest Turkish investors in China, Chinese investors in Turkey. In recent years, Sincan Uygur has had some setbacks in the Autonomous Zone. We expect the Chinese government, the Chinese state officials, to be more sensitive about this, because for many years, our descendants have been deprived of freedom of religion and conscience under the pressure of the Marxist regime. Later, they experienced serious problems due to provocative actions, and many of our family members lost their lives in this environment. In this regard, the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Chinese authorities need to display an extremely careful diplomacy, provided they do not interfere in their internal relations. Our kinsmen there have to use their freedom of religion and conscience, but they must not be cut down on their democratic rights, especially if they are not deprived of human rights. There are approaches to the establishment of Turkish industrial zones in China. We have several unapproved contracts regarding the development of bilateral relations. We also feel that these relations will be affected by the contract that we expect and support to be approved by the High Assembly today. China is looking for a market. Wherever you go abroad, you see Chinese citizens working in all the countries of the world, with cameras around their necks, camera in their hands, just like the Japanese. We think that the condensation of our relations at the minister's level, the increasing of relations at the prime minister and the president's level, will have a positive impact on Turkish-Chinese trade co-operation and political relations. In the United Nations Security Council, we often disagree with what we call our strategic partners, or the countries we call our strategic partners force us to have negative relations, as in our relations with Iran, as in our relations with Syria. In the name of the Republic of Turkey, and in the name of the great Turkish nation, we should seek alternative labor units instead of addiction to the EU or the United States. We had a fight with the Chinese on our way from Central Asia to Anatolia, but since the fighting was left behind -- as the Confucian said -- past resentments have been forgotten and the search for new friendship has been set in motion, we need to increase our relations with the Chinese. We need to find ways to sell more products to China, where we are particularly focused on raw materials exports, but also negative foreign trade deficits in imports. In particular in Turkey, we export marble -- in terms of marble exports -- and if we convert it into processed marble -- in recent years, we will have a positive collaboration for Isparta, for Afyon and for Turkey, which has been justified in the marble market. I think the marbles that we export in thin slices will allow us to close the export gap for Turkey. Chinese investments in agriculture and automotive in Turkey are also increasing. I wish this agreement to be beneficial for both nations and for both countries, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0075par0150	Thank you, Mr. Proposal. Vocabulary? There isn't. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0076par0158	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge from the High Council to the Government of the Republic of Turkey to the Government of the People's Republic of Turkey that it is appropriate to ratify the Framework Agreement on the Development of Bilateral Trade and Economic Co-operation and Develification of the People's Republic of Turkey. Dear MPs, China, as you know, is a rising force in the world, and China is using its power wisely within its own strategy. As China rises, it increases its economic and political influence. In what geography does China's economic and political influence first grow? Today, in our great Parliament, one of the most important countries of the Turkish world in our Veteran Assembly gave a speech by President Almazbek Atambayev, who emphasised the Turkish world in his speech. The heart would want Mr. Atambayev, President of Kyrgyztan, to make his emphasis on the Turkish world the Justice and Development Party government. I just want to give you an example. Mr. Secretary of State has not gone to Azerbaijan, for example, from the day the new government was formed to today, the valued MPs. Unfortunately, the Turkish world was ignored during this government period. Hopefully, after Mr. Almazbek Atambayev's speech, our government will also show interest in the Turkish world, because if you don't show interest, China, unfortunately in the Turkish world, in Central Asia, has increased its economic and political influence every day. Of course, as with many countries, we are in favor of the development of our economic and commercial relations with China, but we also need to be opposed to the fact that China behaves as if it were a spreading country. Today, Central Asian Turkish republics are Turkey's most important mission geography, but in the Central Asian Turkish republics, we see more China than Turkey. Today, Chinese investments in Afghanistan are even more abundant than America, where it is occupied. We see Afghanistan as one of our closest countries, but our economic and commercial investments there are far behind China, I'm afraid. Of course, it's important to develop economic and commercial relations with China, but we have to remember one thing: East Turkia is something that we will always be sensitive about in our relations with China. The matter of East Turkistan shouldn't just be talked about. Today, as of the year we are in, we will celebrate the year of China on various occasions, so to speak, and next year in Turkey, the year of China will be celebrated. On this occasion, it is imperative that East Turkistan play a bridge between Turkey and China. This is expressed by both Turkey and China, but it doesn't go beyond the expression, I'm afraid. The problems of East Turkistan must be put there as an item of the agenda in any conversation with China. This, of course, is not interfering with the internal affairs of China. We come from the same ethnic background as East Turkistan, we speak the same language, we have the same faith. We will surely have some sensitivity there. We, of course, will not interfere with the internal affairs of other countries, but we will not be silent about the innocent imprisonment of our brothers from East Turkistan and the oppression of our brothers from East Turkia. East Turkistan, which is nearly twice the size of Turkey's geography, is 2.5 times the size of its population, has to be made a bridge to a bridge point in our relations with China. In this framework, we must make sure that East Turkistan is included in any activity in Turkey in 2012. Mr. Günal just spoke on behalf of our party. I want to underline it again. In particular, our Ministry of Culture has a great deal to do with this framework. If you turn your back on East Turkistan if you invite only Chinese delegations and only Chinese artists, then China will, of course, continue to pressure East Turkistan. In this framework, let us develop our relations with China, we have no words to say, China is one of the most important countries in the world, but we must not ignore East Turkistan while we do so. This can even contribute if it is properly used to develop Turkish-Chinese relations. If we make East Turkistan a bridge, not a so-called bridge, it will cause both the prosperity of East Turkistan, and Turkish-Chinese relations will develop smoothly in this framework. Of course, we know that China's cheap labor force, China, has made certain products cheaper than Turkey with some state support. As we develop relations with China, we need to be careful that this is not one-sided. Many of our producers in Turkey produce much better than the cheap goods produced by China, than the sleazy goods produced by China, while unfortunately the businesses that produce in the same area in Turkey are also under the pressure of Chinese goods and products such as this. We have to protect our own manufacturer, our own industrialist, Turkey's businesses. We must not open our doors to the end when cheap Chinese goods enter Turkey in that sense. Many countries apply this protection, protection measures. Many countries impose restrictions on Chinese goods entering their own country. In that frame, the products that were not produced in Turkey, of course, come here, Chinese products, in that sense, but if the Turkish manufacturer is producing the same thing, if a Turkish industrialist is producing the same product, our priority is, of course, to protect our manufacturer here. We see in this framework that the government's efforts, unfortunately, are not prepared for anything. As a matter of fact, whatever market you go to, whatever city you go to, you see a Chinese market, almost a Chinese dump. So, let's improve our relations with China, we have no say in this, but let's make sure we keep our own manufacturer in this frame, and keep our own products in this frame, precious MPs. Let's not forget that China will be one of the great countries of the next decade. China is now not directly involved in many events around the world; China is already not directly involved in many events around the world in the framework of the project of economic and political capture and even passing of the United States by 2020. But remember, China is busy building infrastructure in many countries from Turkish geography to Africa. In this framework, China's investments in Africa, China's initiatives in Africa, need to be well-read what China is trying to do in the Middle East, but above all, a good follow-up of what China is doing in the Turkish world needs to be done. Dear lawmakers, the Shanghai Co-operation Organization must be closely monitored in this framework. Mr. Foreign Minister doesn't have time for the Turkish world, we know that, but that Turkish world has now become independent of that Turkish world, which has been in Soviet captivity for 70 years. Under Soviet military and political pressure, the Turkish world could be under the economic and political pressure of China tomorrow. And I consider it a duty to warn you here. Dear lawmakers, we stand by the development of Turkish-Chinese relations and the ratification of this law in this framework, but lastly, I stress again that the Uygur issue, the matter of East Turkistan, must be one of the key issues of our agenda in all negotiations with China. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0077par0171	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. No demands, no questions, no answers. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, the Open Bill of the Law on the Officials of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the People's Republic of China in accordance with a clear vote on the adoption of the Framework Agreement on the Development of Bilateral Trade and Economic Co-operation and Develification: ▪ Number of votes used: 218 [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Mine Leuk White Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations with the 4th Republic of Turkey's Government and with the Foreign Affairs Commission Report on the Approvement of the Anti-Terror Agreement Between the Iraqi Republic. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 5th place, in accordance with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Security Co-operation Agreement between the Iraqi Republic. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of the Co-operation and Reciprocity Agreement on Customs between the Government of the Jordanian Hashimi. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of five rows. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on top of the bill, Alexei MP Haydar Akar will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0078par0201	Yes, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I promised you yesterday that I would tell you all about the Carthage, but I will not speak of the Cartel, nor will I speak of Kandira. I'm not going to mention two municipalities because there's no Home Secretary. At every meeting of the Home Secretary, in every combination, I'll bring the Cartepe Municipality and Kandira City Hall, and you'll know that. Now, we're going to talk about Jordan. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group concerning the Republic of Turkey and its Co-operation and Reciprocal Aid Agreement on Customs issues between the Jordanian Kingdom. I salute your high council. Dear friends, Jordan's economy, which does not have oil or natural gas sources, unlike its neighbours, is based on trade with environmental countries. Throughout history, trade has been one of the greatest guarantees of peacekeeping. Relations between Jordan and Turkey are of great importance in this regard. It is clear that developing our relations with Jordan in a very strategic region, both politically and economically, will benefit both Turkey and Jordan and the region. The Aqaba Special Economic Zone, located in Jordan, also offers an important investment opportunity for Turkish companies. In view of all of this, the signed bilateral aid and cooperation agreement becomes even more important. Any trade, political and mutual aid agreement between countries in the region will play an important role in maintaining peace in the Middle East. I sincerely hope that this agreement will be good for both countries. Since its establishment 1946, the Jordanian Kingdom has been a country with close ties with the West, following a balance policy in order to maintain its internal stability, but the main issue that determines Jordan's economy and foreign policy is the future of Palestine. There are many Palestinians who have fled Israel's oppression, who have taken refuge in Jordan from the land occupied by Israel, and who have lived there for many years. Jordan is the only Arab country that grants legal citizenship to Palestinian refugees. It also shows that the problem between Jordan and Palestine is so intertwined that it can't be separated. Every crisis in the Palestinian problem has threatened Jordan's security in both domestic and foreign policy. On the other hand, after the invasion of Iraq, about 1 million Iraqis migrated to Jordan, raising economic and social problems that already existed. In 1994, Israel signed a peace agreement, and then its closeness to this country faced the harsh opposition of Palestinian citizens in the country. Jordan, with nearly half of its population of Palestinian citizens, faced the dissolution of parliament, which was elected in 2009 as a result of these developments. His already crippled democracy has suffered another irreparable injury. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the history of the Middle East is a bloody history, a history of violence. Recently, our country has also been trying to fast-forward into this history of violence. Those who want to reshape the Middle East are creating fictions on Turkey so that they can restore it. They're pushing the region into instability, war and blood. It is possible to see that any simple conflict in the region, even when all of this is considered together, will lead to great destruction. Dear friends, what is Turkey doing in all this? Mr. Secretary has come up with an approach called zero problem, but let's take a look at what's happened since that understanding came out. Zero problems have become zero relationships, our relations with all our neighbors have not been so problematic since the cold war. We're fighting with Syria. There's nothing we can do about Iraq, we're watching it from the shore like an audience. Iran is about to suspend relations with Turkey because of the missile shield. Our relations with Syria provide a clear indication of how sloppy we are in foreign policy. Until a very short time ago, our political and economic relations were at their peak. There were rights violations in Syria at the time, and then the Syrian regime was the same as today, and then there was intense pressure on the opposition in Syria. In all this time, what has changed and what has become of relationships, and what has changed, and what has become of Turkey's foreign policy? I see great benefit in identifying this: Turkey has become an outsider on its way to becoming a quarterback with zero problem policy. This is not only the case with our neighbors, but the situation of our relations with the European Union is evident. The dream of the European Union is almost exhausted. The French President can go to Armenia and say things about Turkey that haven't happened. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers should not, of course, be drawn into the shell of Turkey and ignore the problems surrounding it, not to be indifferent to the problems in the region that will determine its own destiny, but not to make mistakes while they are being made. Foreign policy doesn't take mistakes. Therefore, foreign policy is done from a perspective based on reality and reality. If the foreign policy doesn't keep up with what you're saying tomorrow, then if you say yesterday, "What is NATO doing in Libya?" and you agree the following week, if you're in Egypt, you're talking about democracy in the squares and ignoring the regime in Saudi Arabia, and we have no problem with the bloody regime in Sudan, then there's a problem with credibility. If you have that kind of foreign policy, you're making a mistake. Such a mistake led Israel to legitimize the Gaza blockade, such a mistake means that the Turkish Republic of Turkey (Turkish Republic) will not enter the tender in Iraq, which means that another 3 million Armenians will be accepted in Europe, which means that in Libya French will receive 35 per cent of it, which is such a mistake. When we returned to relations with Israel, Israel did not get away with what Israel had done, which had killed nine of our citizens in international waters, but was presented to Israel in a golden tray with a report of the United Nations, which Israel had not been able to find for the inhuman Gaza blockade. We did not expect such a thing, the report is wrong. Comments, such as these, are unacceptable. In foreign policy, words fly, tails stay. As soon as Turkey signs that report, Israel wins. After that, there is no point in going out into the square and beating Israel to the ground. In fact, trying to present this situation as a victory does not match the facts. This is not the end of Israel and the end of it, my friends. Israel, you know, has an adventure in the Mediterranean with Cyprus to search for oil, in fact there is a Southern Cyprus. We made the same mistakes there. We said, "We will send our ships of war." We sent a Piri Reis. And none of you know the address of this Piri Reis. But Israel is still searching for oil, and now they've ended it, and then they're going to release their natural gas and then they're going to move it along with Southern Cyprus. We made a mistake there, too, guys, and we made a mistake there. A private company does seismic research in the Mediterranean and sells them to countries on the Mediterranean coast. There are three countries that have received these research - Egypt, Israel, and Southern Cyprus. The Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Northern Cyprus are not buying these research. As a result, after these investigations, Cyprus deals economic zones with countries in the region. Since Turkey has not made an economic zone deal with any country, we are looking for oil in the Mediterranean with Shell, which is being sold to us. The story is an oil business that Turkey is looking for in its own black waters, nothing else. We've been completely deactivated in the Mediterranean. This shows an example of our mistakes in foreign policy. Dear lawmakers, foreign policy does not remove faults, nor does contradictions. The missile shield clearly reveals such a contradiction. Without consulting anyone, the AKP government signed an agreement with NATO. In fact, it is said that NATO has signed an agreement. The agreement with NATO was not signed, it was signed with the United States. Yeah, we're a NATO country. If NATO really tells us that we need to build a missile shield and that kind of decision was made in NATO, maybe that could be done, but this agreement was not signed with NATO. Once again, when the Foreign Minister was here, we asked him, we asked him questions before, our Malatian MP Veli Ağbaba asked him several times, the deal with NATO was not signed. If you're claiming it was signed, we're here. The treaty with the United States has been signed, and we repeat once again, a missile shield deal that put Turkey and the Turkish people on the target board that brought Iran against it. And who is this shield to protect? To protect Israel who brutally killed people in Palestine, Gaza, Galilee, Sabra, and Shatilla. If it hadn't been for this, Iran wouldn't have aimed its missiles at us, and if it hadn't been for this, it wouldn't have led the Syrian missiles to us. Friends, let's stop subcontractoring America. Let us be advocates of a more stable policy in the region for the future of Turkey's countries in the region. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Foreign Minister says this defence shield is not for Israel. The range of missiles supposed to be launched from Iran will reach which NATO country outside of Turkey to protect NATO members. Because missiles from Iran cause shields created by this missile shield to be shot on the Turkish geography. So if a missile is coming and it will protect Turkey's geography, but if it protects Israel, it is possible to destroy it on Syria or Israel before it reaches Israel, with these missile shields. So it's not protecting us, it's already getting to the top of Turkey. We ask: What NATO countries do we say to protect them? We signed with the United States because NATO is not intended to protect its country, but to protect Israel. In fact, this defense shield is to protect Israel, and this radar system is against Iran. This system is not against Iran, it is not to protect Israel. It is nothing but to deceive the people. If there is such a gap between what you say and what you do, your foreign policy is not a reassuring policy. In Egypt, the prime minister of a country that had struck Israel on the ground should not have signed such an agreement. This is a clear contradiction. Dear MPs, Cyprus is one of the most important problems of our foreign policy. See, Cyprus, with the help of Israel, is doing an oil search with an American company, and I just mentioned it. We are rightly against it, but there is not a country that supports us in this matter. Aside from the countries we're facing, even our allies are not on our side in what we're right about. The countries that we support in order of Arab Spring support us, not the countries that support us, but the Southern Cyprus. The Greek Cypriot regime, which has so much support behind it, is doing what it wants, and we're just watching with our hands tied. This is a clear indication that our foreign policy has been inadequate for reasons. That hasn't happened in two months. We're changing our view of foreign policy. This process began when we set out to follow a more proactive policy. At that time, the Republican People's Party warned the government, but it couldn't listen, we warn again, and you insist on not listening again. He also warned of signing an agreement with Armenia in Zurich, as well as warning of a shift of the axis, and now warning. Dear friends, foreign policy has always been above politics from the founding of the republic to the beginning of AKP power. All political parties have taken the utmost interest in keeping foreign policy and security issues out of daily political concerns. The AKP government has been publicly supported in matters that have been justified, and it is still supported in matters that have been justified. However, the bottom line is that Turkish foreign policy has been drifting for years, but for the past three years in particular, a swing has shown itself from good to good. Political understanding based on principles has begun to focus on daily political concerns. Too many mistakes are made, too many discrepancies are created, and they will not have positive results. It's possible to see the symptoms everywhere. From this point of view, the perception of our country's foreign policy in Europe, in the United States, in the Middle East, is not as strong, as healthy as it is thought. All actors from the western, eastern, northern, southern, are attracted to the disparity and contradictions we've made. It is clear that creating a perception of a country with an unpredictable foreign policy will not benefit any country in the region, particularly us. Dear lawmakers, we have a deep connection with Jordan, as with other Middle Eastern countries. As I said earlier, it is important for all countries who share this geography that Jordan has a healthy democracy, a stable economy. I hope that this agreement will benefit Jordan, our Palestinian brothers, who are forced to live in Jordan. The future of Palestine depends on Jordan, just as the future of Jordan depends on Palestine. A stable and economically strong Jordan will play a critical role in the development of democracy, in establishing healthy relations in the region. It is vital that our country contributes by improving its trade. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as I'm trying to point out at the beginning of my speech, our region is not looking for a bright future. It is clear that the energy deficit of industrialised countries is pushing Middle East towards a war environment. It is evident that a battle in the Middle East will not be limited to the region and will cause much pain. Turkey is the only secular country ruled by democracy in the midst of a global conflict of interest. In such geography and under such circumstances, it is not possible, of course, to be relieved of the problems, but it must be remembered that the invaders come and go in this ancient land. The people will have to live together again. If you take too many sides in a global conflict of interest, that's how many enemies you make in the region. Mistakes made in this geography are easy to remember, and their costs are always high. So we have to set up our foreign policy on friendships as best we can. Peace has always been a thread in the Middle East. We shouldn't be the ones pulling this rope. There should be peace in the land, peace in the world. Turkey will want to draw it into a possible bloody war, which is clear. Today's foreign policy does not strike as a policy to protect our country from such a war. Anything can happen at any moment because our foreign policy is no longer a national policy. The meaning of national policy: what's in politics, what's in parliament, what's under this roof, is the national policy that the government has come together to create for Turkey's future. I have told him personally that the Foreign Minister is the worst Foreign Minister and the worst Foreign Affairs administration in the history of the republic, which has not changed with the change of governments, and has not changed with the change of foreign ministers, and that I express to him in both my speech and other talks that it is the worst foreign administration in the history of the republic. Turkey has never been more isolated, and Turkey continues to be isolated. I'm asking you guys... in any arena, any platform in the world, any organization in the United Nations, the United Nations, I don't mean NATO, because in NATO, when we reject it, it's already not accepted, but other than that -- all of your practices are kept out of Turkey, no country is in our presence. Our old friend, even Azerbaijan, as we call him a brother country, is having trouble taking part in Turkey's international platforms from time to time because Turkey does not have a national foreign policy, Turkey has a foreign policy that depends on Davutoglu, Davutoglu will have a dream and dream at night. To do so, the government must quickly review this foreign policy, get the political parties involved in parliament's views, support for it, and implement a total foreign policy. Yes, it has to be a national foreign policy, it has to be calculated over the years, it has to refer to the years to come, but it has to be revised from time to time according to the conjunctive that has evolved in the world. Once every six months, we are alone in the world and alone in our region, and we see the Republic of Turkey at war when we have never dreamed of it. We're warning you now, the Republican People's Party has repeatedly warned us as the main opposition party, and we continue to warn you. Review your foreign policy, the worst foreign policy in history, and if you need the worst foreign minister, pull out of office and create a national foreign policy. If you do that, you'll have our full support on foreign policy. My compliments to all of you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0079par0227	Thank you, Mr. Akar. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0080par0231	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. In order for international contracts to take effect, this form requirement has to be met, where it needs to be legalized, we're in this kind of work. We now legislate a contract between the state of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Jordan Hashimi on 9 March 2010. First of all, there's really no point in putting a contract that we signed with a key country like Jordan on the shelves for two years during a time when friendships in the Middle East were very important and valuable. However, these agreements are important contracts that will contribute to friendship, to the development of relationships, which are important to be adopted by law as soon as possible, but there are contracts in Turkey that wait ten years, and the law of these contracts is carried out in this disinterest. So, I'm going to try to express my views on foreign policy, the Jordanian-based foreign policy, but, of course -- to the attention of our nation -- is unfortunately not in the interest of our Parliament. Mr. Secretary isn't here, our foreign commissioner was just here, and they're not in the living room right now...
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0081par0235	They've gone to our president.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0080par0236	Yeah. So in talks like this, which have the opportunity to express political parties' views on foreign policy, unfortunately, they are not present, they are not present, they are not present. So, as much as the ruling party's importance and value is to gain weight, no matter what we talk about, it means nothing more than to be a burden in the transcripts, unfortunately, but if you've just heard my dear friend -- the Speaker of the People's Party of the Republic -- he gave a very well-prepared, meaningful, comprehensive, concerned speech. If we try to think seriously about these things, it is imperative that we all share some concerns about the future of our country, of our nation. Dear lawmakers, if we consider the recent events in our region in the Middle East as a whole, we will face a conclusion from Mr. Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu. Mr. Davutoglu says: "We will not allow a new war in the region." It means that according to foreign policy data, there is a war threat in the region. If Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu is saying this, it must be considered, discussed and considered if a Zat who wrote the book of strategic depth, and made the State of Turkey's Foreign Ministry today says this. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, this General Assembly, you valued MPs elected by the votes of the nation, the concerns expressed about the future of this country, whoever has a statement, but to discuss the contents of that statement, to me, you are responsible for your duty. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, look, I'm telling you in recent news. I'm not a foreign policy expert, and our friends, Mr. Sinan Oğan, who are foreign policy experts in our group, as a member of the Foreign Commission, express their serious concerns to our group. Indeed, the developments in our region indicate that we are on the verge of a war. War isn't easy, friends, it's killing people, and we're watching it live. 50,000 people died in Libya, and soon, they died in front of us. Human, human, parents, aren't they dead? I have to remind you of what death is, your closest self. But in Libya they slaughtered their brother... with the support of global forces, with the planes they took from them, with the bombs, people destroyed each other... 50,000 people. In Iraq, 1.5 million Muslims died, still dying. It's called war. Now, it is said that such a threat and the possibility of war is imminent for our region. The data, the developments are so clear, Mr. Secretary of State says: "We will not allow such a war." How could you not? What precautions do you have? Mr. Secretary of State has to come in here and tell the truth of that promise, the contents of it, right? Shouldn't there be a general discussion here? Mr. Ali Babacan was also here, former Secretary of State, who also left. Who are we gonna tell? Who are we going to talk to, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0082par0241	Mr. Elitaş is here!
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0080par0242	Look, let me take a look at a few things together. Now, the civil war in Syria is rapidly drifting towards a sectal war. I'm speaking as a friend of yours who knows Syria. The reasons for the incident in Syria can be questioned, debated, but as a result, the incident in Syria is rapidly heading for a sectal war. The same is happening in Iraq. In Iraq, even the post-American incident is rapidly heading for a cult war. Well, the origin of this sect's diversity is the sectal war between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Behind this lies economic projects, political projects of global forces. We all know that, but all valued lawmakers, all strategists, all foreign diplomats know that the ultimate goal of global forces' global projects in this region is Turkey. The global forces that cannot separate Turkey on ethnic basis and divide it are now under siege starting from its neighbours in order to push it into a sectal-axis conflict. If we don't take precautions, like in Libya... here, I said it because I was so upset. I don't have an attitude that would harm Mr. Foreign Minister's character, but I'm ashamed that he boasted of his position in that incident, which resulted in 50,000 deaths in Libya. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm embarrassed. After all, 50,000 Muslims died there. I don't see the fact that Turkey was involved in this, we did a human mission. I don't see the fact that Mr. Foreign Minister didn't take part in it, nor did he take on an important task like the State of the Republic of Turkey, the State of Turkey, the State of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's not get our heads in the sand. In the eastern Mediterranean bowl, fast, global forces hold their positions and prepare. Russia sent its ships to the Eastern Mediterranean, as a counter-support for Turkey's opposition to the Sure regime. All Iranian authorities threaten Turkey. Iran has brought Israel and the United States to such a point in its quarrel with the United States of America that it has threatened to close the Horn of Hormuz and has conducted a very serious ten-day exercise in order to express its determination. Now, the United States plus Israel plans to do the same exercise with air forces. There's a much more troubling development in front of us, brother and friend Pakistan, on the brink of civil war. If you're watching the news, the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff, the Secretary of Defense of the National Defence, have started giving clear threats to each other. Tanks are walking down the street. A civil war is expected at any moment, a revolution at any time. Conflicts continue in Afghanistan. If you say we live in Iraq, we live in Shia, Sunni, Arabs, people of the same race are draining each other's blood today, unfortunately they can't create stability. We are watching new challenges of Iran's nuclear work as a threat, an advanced threat. Other than that, we're all watching Afghanistan together. The economic embargo against Iran has come to such a difficult point that all global forces, all Western forces, have demonstrated the intention of drowning Iran, the President of the United States Barack Obama, and I cannot extract your oil from this Hursuz Strait. It's a bluff in foreign policy, I'm not saying anything, but I'm saying it's a measure of these developments -- and I'm saying again, because the President of the Commission is here -- you can make different meanings as an intellectual, as a thinker, but as a thinker, who has to have full knowledge of the matter, sees the matter as a technical and theoretical preparation for war, and he says: "We will not allow a war to happen in our region. This means that there is a war prepared and a very close threat in the region. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I, above all, would like to question Turkey's change of attitude. Since the establishment of the state of the Republic of Turkey, he has completed his own development and contributed to the transformation of his neighbours in an approach to the whole world and especially to what we call the softness of its neighbours. By not fighting anyone in 90 years, Turkey today has not participated in any war in the region and the world. But what changed this day, as I said to Mr. Davutoglu, as I said to him, so that he rode, and took the sword, and came to the brink of war? The whole world says Turkey will intervene in Syria as soon as possible. At this point Barack Obama writes all the Western press that he supports Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and that he is behind him, that he is in line with Turkey's policy, with regional policies. What, are we going to back down, is there a chance, precious MPs? Are we going to live with Syria now, that degrading resurgence with Israel? I thought we were going to call it a cause of war, how Israel continued its stance, or how he sought oil in the Eastern Mediterranean? I thought we were sending our navy ships after relief ships. It's very insulting, it's not like Turkey. If all individuals representing the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey or Turkey present a stance on foreign policy, it is the nation's attitude and must be taken to the end. Now, to Turkey, Syria, Syria, to the people of Syria, to me... Please, follow the Lebanese newspapers, watch their televisions, read the newspapers of Iran, and watch their televisions. The headlines are all against Turkey. You said, friend, brother Lebanon. Lebanese, ruled by those whom the Prime Minister cares deeply for. But today in Lebanon, there has been such an anti-Turkey public opinion, such a political propaganda that Turkey no longer has the chance to be such a regional force, to be friends, to be brothers, to be brothers. Why is that? You need to see a step ahead of this, because the attitude of the Shii axis is Iran, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, and you have no argument to argue with that. Now, if there's a sectal conflict in this region that's going to turn into a civil war... you don't have the power to prevent it, Turkey doesn't have the power to prevent it. The possibility that this will be reflected in Turkey -- if the political man predicts the future -- you have to predict that possibility from today and you have to take precautions. In the first quarter of the 21st century in our region where global projects are being implemented, Turkey is risking its own unity, its own future -- blending in, blending in, blending in, blending in. Syria also has a Kurdish region, which is supported by an ethnic quarrel in Syria, and is part of the four districts of Kurdistan, which they call Kurdish Confederacy. After an example of Libya in Syria, what measure do you have for political construction in the north of Syria as the western tip of this confederation, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Officials? Now, don't you realize that we don't have our northern neighbors in Turkey, but what is the purpose of this tension? The political separatism became so fierce that a swift civil war in Syria would reflect on Turkey's dissolution after a civil war in Iraq that they are officially challenging us. They say, "We are divided." They say, "They want a flag." What's your precaution? Dear friends, our relationship with our neighbors... is our internal business. In my opinion, the problems of all countries in this region have to be our internal issue. Because if we don't take precautions or take action against him in time, that problem will quickly become our internal issue. It's important that my dear friend, who spoke before me, expressed an event. Foreign policy is national policy. Political authorities or parties don't have their own policies. This policy requires a continuity of the nation around the policy of the state and a value axis. As an opposition party, it wouldn't be right for me to make a statement that would weaken my country's foreign policy. We don't have an attitude that weakens the hands of our country. But as a politician or a politician, a politician who's immune to the future, who's sensitive to it, we have to predict the future and make the necessary warnings. Dear lawmakers, see -- since I've been in charge of this matter in the past -- the measure of war between countries is friendship; and the second is trade, partnerships. Now, we had brought friendship to a point where we were now reaching the point of partnership. But on behalf of the Syrian people, we chose to fight the government of the Syrian people, which is the organizational power. What are we going to do, now the Syrian people are hostile to us, too? I know my relatives and brothers live there. Yesterday Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Mr. President were really high-profile leaders. There were nomations under the Turkish flag. Not today, dear MPs, my heart is burning. This position has been lost by our wrong policies. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I won't speak at the next article if you'll give me two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0083par0257	Don't let him talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0080par0258	I'll be done in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0084par0259	Please, with all due respect, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0080par0260	With the permission of Mr. Elitaş, sir! Dear friends, friendships are really important. If we have gained the friendship of the peoples, the rulers of those peoples will not be allowed to do wrong. We've drawn our friendship with the Syrian people we've earned, earned by our teeth, and we've lost it. I went to Mr. Bulent Arinc, and I said, "Sir, it's wrong. You are fighting with Syria's political regime. I don't think it's because of you, I don't think it's true, but I don't question it, but what's wrong with your people? Why don't you start an interparliamental friendship group? This Parliament is where the representatives of this people are. Couldn't the Syrian people's Assembly have continued bridges, bridges of friendship between the People's Assembly's friendship group and Turkey? Dear friends, my judgment is that the ruling party's foreign policy is confused. With the excitement of Mr. Davutoglu, we were lost in the darkness of that strategic depth. He mounts the horse, he puts on his sword, and he drags Turkey somewhere in pursuit of the raw dreams that we have seen in history.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0085par0265	Malkoçoglu!
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0080par0266	We have to stop this, it's wrong. Let's go back together how we're gonna turn this wrong. I'm not saying this to criticize you as a domestic policy material, but I'm seeing you in Syria; it's not getting better; it's not getting better, not from Syria, not from the region, it's not getting better for Turkey, guys. If this sectary-axis conflict jumps to Turkey, you have no measures. The bloodiest conflicts in history are cult-axised conflicts. Politicians and statesmen are bound to predict the future. I've expressed these concerns with these visions. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0086par0269	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PRODUCTION OF ACTIVITY OF KINGDOM WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF ENGLISH COMMUNITY AND AGREEMENT OF AGREEMENT AND AGREATION OF HELP MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 1 December 2009 in Amman (December 2009) between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Jordan Hashimi, with the Co-operation and Mutual Aid Agreement on the Treaty. Promises on matter? There isn't. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Vocabulary? There isn't. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Vocabulary? There isn't. I submit to your votes, those who accept... those who refuse. : Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be by electronic device: those who agree... those who refuse. : Sustained. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Jordanian Hashimic Government on Co-operation in Customs and Approval Agreement on Reciprocity: ▪ Number of votes used: 216 [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Muhammad Bilal Macit Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Now, in the 7th place, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Georgia, we will begin talks with the draft law bill and the Foreign Commission Report. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of eight rows. On top of the entire bill, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP Kemal Ekinci. Here you go, Mr. Sower.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0087par0305	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Constitutional Law Bill, in accordance with the Joint Use of Black Customs Points between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Georgia. I salute you all. Dear friends, we've had an interest in Georgia for about a thousand years, started in the Seljukian era, and stayed within the same empire with us for about three hundred and four hundred years during the Ottoman era. In 1921 -- with the last border agreement -- right after the Soviet invasion of the Republic of Georgia by the Soviet Union, our agreement with Georgia was approved by the Soviet Union, and today our borders were set. After 1990, when Georgia regains its democratic rights and becomes autonomous, our relations are in a good place, both culturally and commercially and strategically. However, in our relations with Georgia, not just politics, trade, strategy, but with Georgia, the Turks have problems. In 1944, the common Turks were driven away from their homes in an uncertain manner, banished to Front Asia, Central Asia, and stayed in Kazakhstan, then migrated to Kyrgyzistan and Uzbekistan. An undestined nation, where a genocide itself... our President of Kyrgyztan, was just talking about brotherhood, who probably assumed that they were step-steppers, where they were involved in genocide, in Kyrgyztan, in Uzbekistan. Now, again, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan welcomed these Ahiska Turks, and in 1992, I believe the Republic of Turkey gave them the right to citizenship regarding Law 3835. They were also sanctioned by the Council of Europe in 2007 on their return to the main country, and the Republic of Georgia agreed to this sanction, but it did not allow the Turks to live in their homes. The Republic of Georgia says: "Come, let us take your place wherever we want, but change your name." Now, Bulgaria was a method that it had previously applied to our descendants there; therefore Turkey granted both citizenship and dual passports to our citizens in Bulgaria, as well as the government of Bulgaria agreed to protect its rights in Bulgaria. The same must be done for Georgia. We don't think it's a wish, we think it's what it's supposed to be. The Ahıska Turks have five counties in Ahıska, 200 villages; the Georgians and Armenians have occupied half of these 200 villages and 5 counties. The government of the Republic of Turkey must impose dialogue on the return of these occupied regions to the Turks of Ahiska. If we transfer this to the Secretary of State, our Foreign Minister won't live to see it for 40 days. So we'd better use another branch of diplomacy. The second issue is that our citizens, who go to Georgia for trade or travel in Turkey, are put in their pockets and convicted of drugs or something; they're leaking money from them; it's very common. He's been in our press a lot, too. In this regard, the government of Georgia should also be warned. Another point of our fundamental relationship is that we have about 500,000 Abhaz citizens and citizens living in Turkey. Relations between Abkhazia (Abkhazia) and Georgia: Abkhazia declared autonomy due to a war, and the borders were drawn after that autonomy. Turkey and Abkhazia have relations with ours in the measure of citizenship, but they are related to Abkhaz, who live in Abkhazia. Sadly, because of Georgia's obstruction, there is no transportation available. They don't specifically use landwater by sea, and there's trouble with that. Our citizens of Abhaz, citizens of Düzce, have serious problems, especially Adapazari, who live in Turkey. In this regard, as a goodwill to the Republic of Turkey, we think the government of Georgia might be able to give a soft, more balanced, tolerance that would please our citizens here. This is a wish, with which I respectfully salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0088par0314	Thank you, Mr. Sower. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0089par0318	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I had a TV connection to Mr. Kyrgyztan's visit to our Parliament, so I had to leave him unfinished. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group regarding the Joint Use of Black Customs Portals between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Georgian Government. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, Georgia, in our neighborhood, may be one of the countries in which we live, perhaps the only country in which Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs is so concerned, so much that he means so much. And I don't think the government's special effort has any special contribution. In this sense, there were no serious problems with Georgia. In particular, a few years ago, after the war between Russia and Georgia in 2008, Georgia followed a full-blown Turkish policy. I believe it was two years ago, when we had a meeting with the President of Georgia, he said: "We have lifted visas with Turkey, and soon we will remove passports." These are of course happy developments. These are joyful developments, but I must say that our expectations of Georgia in that sense are not just this existing agreement or economic and commercial relations between Georgia and Turkey. Georgia, which has just been expressed here, is also the motherland of the Ahiska Turks, the precious MPs and the government of Georgia, which we are in very good relations with, is our friend, about the return of the Ahiska Turks to their historical homeland in Georgia. Georgia had a commitment to membership in the Council of Europe, which would do its part in Georgia as soon as the Ahıska Turks returned to their historic motherland. But Turkey, unfortunately, has not claimed the Turks of Ahiska in this regard. Turkey has not been able to pressure Georgia on the return of the Ahiska Turks to their historic motherland. In the same way, both Georgia and the Turks of Azerbaijan -- 500,000 Turkish Turks -- have not been able to prevent the government's forced campaign to change names for the Turks of Azerbaijan, where we are in good relations. Dear lawmakers, when I just spoke about East Turkistan, I made a point. We don't interfere with the internal affairs of any country. We respect the territorial integrity of Georgia in this framework, and we do what we can to preserve territorial integrity, as Turkey, that's another thing, but it's another thing to defend the rights of our brothers and sisters there, of course. Again, in this same framework, within the context of Georgia's territorial integrity, the matter of Abkhazia, which has fought with the Turks of Ahiska with Georgia and many relatives of our citizens in Turkey, of course, should be at the attention of the government. While our foreign policy is being designed in this framework, the rights of our citizens, relatives there, or rather our citizens there, must also be defended. I say our citizens because many of our citizens, many of our Caucasus citizens, many of our citizens who were exiled, many of our citizens who had to emigrate to Turkey, went to Abkhazia, after the disbanded Soviet Union, and today it serves as a bridge between Turkey and Abkhazia. There are our citizens there, and it is also our government's duty to protect the rights of each of our citizens. We support Georgia in many ways, but I find it difficult to understand one thing. One of the biggest problems between Georgia and me today is the capture and seizure of ships bound for Abkhazia. I believe our citizens are applying to many of our deputies in the region, as well as to the AK PARTY lawmakers from time to time. What I don't understand here is that the valued MPs: we gave Georgia beach safety boots, we donated them, and Georgia, with the coast guard boats that we donated, are allowing and confiscating our ships. Many of our citizens are in prison for this reason. There's only one reason we haven't been able to tell Georgia what's wrong with us. We're donating beach safety boots to Georgia, which are taxed by our citizen, Georgia is allowing our ships with these beach guard boats that we're donating. What kind of understanding is that? How does the government not make a sound, and how does it not make a necessary attempt on Georgia's authorities? Dear MPs, of course, Georgia may have its reasons, which may be justified in its own way, but if we can tell Georgia this, the development of economic and commercial relations between Turkey and Abkhazia will free Abkhazia from the sovereignty of Russia, and in time, perhaps it will contribute to the territorial integrity of Georgia. But we left our citizens there, our citizens in Abkhazia, at the mercy of Russia, and we left our citizens who wanted to trade with it at the mercy of Georgia. But we are a country that is strong enough to solve both problems, as long as we can follow the right policies, as long as we don't approach them with ethnicist mentality. I don't really want to explain what that means, but in that sense, a lot of things are already known to the public. Now, on the one hand, we're negotiating customs and land crossing with Georgia, but on the other hand -- I'm an Iğdır MP -- this is the road to Kars-Ardahan, which comes to Iğdır, which is also the road to the land, which is also the land road to Georgia -- we still haven't been able to complete. We've also submitted a motion to the Parliamentary Presidency, with the request of Mr. Transport, Marine and Telecommunications Minister Buli Yıldırım to answer. However, as in many matters, there has yet to be an answer. So it's not enough to just sign the agreements, it's necessary to do its infrastructure in this framework. Dear MPs, the development of trade with Georgia, the development of political relations with Georgia, it's in our interest as Turkey. As the National Movement Party, we are truly in favor of establishing good relations with our neighbors, and we are always in favor of supporting and supporting international agreements if there is no clause in which to negatively affect our country's interests. In this framework, we support this agreement as the National Movement Party, but while we do so, the interests of our country will be followed in full detail. In my previous talks, the Caucasus and the Central Asian Turkish republics are out of our interest as a whole. We are lost in the wilderness of the Middle East. Mr. Shandır, our Deputy Group President, has just expressed that we are on the brink of war with Syria. Tomorrow, we may experience the same threat and danger with Iran. However, there have been significant developments in the Caucasus. One of these developments is that the valued MPs come and find us in France. The French Parliament has a bill approved against Turkey, and this bill, which is considered a crime of genocide, is not only a bill made by the initiatives of France, but also Armenian. However, Turkey still doesn't know what to do about Armenia in Caucasus. In this framework, even through Georgia, we maintain all kinds of trade relations with Armenia. On the one hand, the AKP government says: "We will apply all kinds of sanctions to France. We will not cease to embrace the AKP government with Armenia, who is behind this bill and behind other plans in 2015 tomorrow. So, you're trying to avoid the issue, not only for show, but for public statements. I'm having trouble understanding something again, as someone who's been working on it for years. Mr. Prime Minister made a statement, and he said: "We are implementing the first stage of sanctions for France." What is the first stage of sanctions for France? The South Stream Project has been approved. The South Stream Project is the rival of Nabucco, which is another matter, and I don't go there at all. The Trans Anatolia Project is the rival of projects that are ours, not to mention this dimension, but it has a more important dimension. 15 per cent of the South Stream Project is owned by the French company. On December 22nd, the French Senate approves a bill against Turkey, and a week later, you approve an agreement with the French company that has 15 per cent of its share. So what kind of a job is this? What kind of diet is this? What makes you think you're doing this? Of course, when you do this, France says: "Any way we take a step against Turkey, it eventually avoids it, even rewards us. " Yes, you reward France. What does France do in return? By not gaining speed, he says: "Only this agreement makes initiatives in the countries of the European Union, that the so-called denial of genocide should not apply in France, but also in the countries of the European Union. " Foreign policy isn't just about writing books, precious MPs. Mr. Davutoglu can write very good books, but the facts of foreign policy don't always match the pages of books, foreign policy has real facts, and we need to know that. Since it's not covered, you've already set out today to ask for zero problems, we've got almost no problems, we've had problems with all the countries. We are on the brink of war with Syria, and the duel with Iran has already begun. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, so first of all -- I want to express it on this occasion -- we need to follow more carefully with his power as parliament, with his opposition, with the 2015 process. During the 2015 period, Turkey will face serious problems in foreign policy. If you do not take a serious stance on this, we will apply sanctions to France on one side. On the other hand, if you approve a project, which is a partnership of 15 percent of the French company within less than a week, it will follow, and in the coming days, it will likely pass through the French Senate on 23 January, and it will not be limited. France will now try to pass the same bill from European countries by bringing it on the agenda of the European Parliament. What's up? We're a big country. Not by saying it. I'd like to point out that this is not just a bill of law, it's not just a law of denial and punishment, it's just the first step in the matter. Dear MPs, we said our relations with Georgia are important. Georgia is one of the few countries in which we have problems. However, another neighbor, Armenia, maintains trade relations with Turkey through Georgia, so we must consider this issue in our relations with Georgia. From one side of Armenia, in response to our opening, we've left Mount Pain to the Armenian youth. He says -- I've expressed it before -- he's trying to continue his trade with Turkey, but on the other hand, he's trying to put Turkey into trouble through Europe, across the United States and across the international community. International relations are based on reciprocity. When Armenia is trying to do all sorts of evil to you in that sense, it is impossible to understand that you are still trying to embrace Armenia. I want to emphasize one more issue in this framework: there are many initiatives in Turkey, one of which is the initiative of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, and one of which is that there will be an Algerian genocide monument against the French Embassy, a positive development. However, the Hodja genocide monument has to be made, because there was a genocide in Armenia, and with the participation of today's President Sarkisyan. The Turks of Azerbaijan were massacred there, and today, behind this decision by the French Parliament is Armenia, and your initiative at the point of Algeria alone is not enough. We need to have a very serious conversation with Armenia, which means that Armenia will either take to its senses, and the friendly hand that Turkey has extended will meet with the same sincerity, or Turkey will do the necessary, and Armenia will have to put up with it. What's the occasion? Turkey must cut off all ties with Armenia to stop Armenia's invading attitude as soon as possible. Our main friend, our brother, is 20 percent of Azerbaijan's land is occupied. Whose occupation is he under? Armenia is under siege. He's Armenia, which you stand for, which you go to as football diplomacy, but he doesn't understand it, he doesn't want to see it. He trades with Turkey today through Georgia, and he trades with Turkey through Georgia, where we are trying to improve the border crossings that we are meeting today, where we want to make our land borders better. At this point, Turkey must do its due, dear MPs. Again, we're talking foreign policy, and we need to stress one more thing on this occasion. Mr. Group Vice President has expressed himself, but since he doesn't have time, I'd like to clear up one or two more matters. Dear MPs, we would like to remind you once again that Turkey has been brought to the brink of war with Syria. When we look at the Western press, the question is: When will Turkey enter Syria or when will a corridor be formed, or when will the no-fly zone be implemented under Turkey's control? The question is: When will Turkey enter Syria? It's not by accident, it's not an event that arises when there's nothing there. Turkey is trying to enter Syria under covert negotiations. I'd also like to present this to your grand delegation because many matters are being taken from the attention of the High Assembly, passed over by a decree and other issues under the rule of law. Speaking of the High Assembly, a valued member of the High Assembly has made a statement. AK PARTY MP Friday said: "Turkey should support the establishment of Kurdistan." Is there a difference in our view of this as a government? We had a red line, and the formation of a separate state, the disintegration of Iraqi territorial integrity, that was against our national interests so far. Is there something we don't know about? The EC PARTY group, the government and the Foreign Minister need to make this clear. Are we on the side of Iraq's territorial integrity or against it? We see the AK PARTY, the Justice and Development Party, dipping its hand in Syria's internal affairs. Now you're trying to tear up Iraq? This matter should be made clear by the Justice and Development Party and its government, and it should be explained here that this MP's opinion does not apply to the government. Otherwise, I'd like to say that Turkey's taking on such an adventure will open the door for the same intentions to return to Turkey after a while. I salute your High Council.
tbmm-2012-01-12sit03spe0090par0342	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Oğan. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. CONTINUES TO CONTINUE THE STRIPTION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY DIVORCE TO PRODUCTION OF ZAPTIN The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in İstanbul on 11 June 2010, and The Covenant of the Common Use of Black Customs Transition Points between the Government of Georgia, has been approved. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for words. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliaments, it is a clear vote that the adoption of the Covenant for the Joint Use of Black Customs Transition Points between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Georgian Government is appropriate: ▪ Number of votes used : 222 [[x]] Conqueror Hawk Muhammad Bilal Macit Thus, the bill is accepted and legalized. Members of parliament, due to a joint decision by political party groups, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (January 17th 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with verbal question motions and legislation and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
