tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 11th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel, who asked for the appointment of World Fighting Poverty Day. Here you go, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Yesterday, the world was the day of the fight against poverty, and on this occasion, the talks were held. Today, I'm going to express a little bit more about Istanbul on the basis of the fight against poverty. With neoliberal policies in Turkey, especially after 1980, poverty has actually become a serious problem. After the 1990s, this continued to deepen. According to TÜİK data, there are 18.5% of those who are at constant risk of poverty in Turkey; the poverty has always been in 14 per cent during the AKP ruling period, so in Turkey, poverty is actually chronicizing. In these figures, 13 million people live under the poverty line in Turkey. According to the report published by the DİSK, the hunger limit for a family of four is 1,047 and the poverty limit is 3.312 TL. According to data from the Ministry of Finance in Turkey, 5 million minimum wagers live, so 20 million people with their families are on the verge of starvation. The difference between the poorest and the richest in Turkey is 8.5 times, so the difference between the rich and the poor has not been reduced, as alleged in Turkey. The statement expressed by AKP speakers as "Turkey is getting rich" does not really reflect the truth. It is only 20 per cent of Turkey that prospers, while it lives below the poverty limit of 80 per cent. The number of people living under the hunger limit is 13 million. The inequality of income in Turkey is increasing. We can see that very clearly when we look at the indicators that measure the inequality of income. The region of Marmara is the most affected. In Istanbul, which has the largest population in the country, the high poverty rate of lawmakers is 18 percent, meaning about 2,7,000 people. So we know very clearly that these numbers are much more than that. Especially in slums, or in places where people struggle for their lives, people have to fight poverty seriously in many places, such as vineyards, Esen, Sultanbeyli, Umraniye, Tarlbaş, Okmeydan. It's not just poverty, it's actually dealing with a lot of social problems. On top of that, the AKP government's "Central Transformation Project" is facing projects that will bring down even this house, even though people actually have a home that they can live in right now. Especially after the Van earthquake, the AKP government is rapidly building the so-called healthier cities. We have also seen in these projects in Istanbul today in Sulukule and Tarlbaş. In fact, it's a project for the rich that really increases inequality, it's an approach that drives the poor out of their habitat. In particular, on October 5th, the projects which the Prime Minister started with the symbolic destruction of the building in the Esen, and the occupational chambers, civil society organisations, the public, were officially launched in Istanbul. Unfortunately, no one listens to the voices of the NGOs in Istanbul. With this project, the destruction of 6,500 buildings in 35 provinces was planned. Although they themselves are very enthusiastic about the project that the prime minister decorated with ▪2023 (2071) and the project, the public is deeply anxious about it. Not only in Tarlbaş, or Fatih, but in many areas, here is a project that will be implemented in many regions such as Sarıyer, Oliveburn, Okmeydanı, Sulukule, Hunters, Sultanbeyli. This makes the people seriously nervous. We, once again, suggest to the AKP government, especially to review urban transformation projects and not to take the people's living spaces away from them. Because there's going to be a lot of impact here. In particular, the Ministry of Urbanism and Environment, at this point, seriously, decides these problems without further mechanisms. In fact, not only are the damaged areas under the name "depress" but the intact buildings face destruction as well. Once again, we're trying to warn the AKP government here. These projects are not for the public, but for AKP's Rant Areas. There's a large group of people in Istanbul against the Ranta. Once again, we're warning the AKP government about this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0003par0026	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Diyarbakir MP Deliberate Friday, who wants to talk about investments in Diyarbakır. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0004par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you my city which has changed with the AK PARTY. I, the Urardus, the Assyrians, the Medes, the Romans, the Abbasis, the Sasanis, the Emevis, the Byzantines, the Seljucans, the Ottomans, the 33 civilizations, the Nine Prophets - two of which are mentioned in our holy book, the Quran, the Quran. Zülküf and Hz. I'm an MP in a holy city home to the prophets of Elyesa -- a total of 572 territory where the martyrs lay. And again, I, the Great Mosque, the fifth Sheriff of Haremi, the Four-legged Minare, the architect Sinan, the Malabadi Bridge, where there are 3,800 historical artifacts of 33 such civilizations, the Muslim, the Jews, the Christian temples, the three different languages and colors, the people living in peace for thousands of years in the sect, the people living in peace, the Cahit Sıtki Tarancı, Ali Emiri, and thousands of such poets, from the land of the thinker, the land of the thinker, the land of the ten thousand-year-old walls, the culture, the culture, the culture, and the culture of the religious community, the courageous youth of the Selinad, and the youth of the Seldin. I am honored, proud and honored to be the deputy of this ancient city, to be a citizen of Turkey, to live under the flag of Turkey knowing the testimony of my grandfathers. (AS/TK) Diyarbakır has never been occupied in history. My grandfathers, with great honor and honor, handed over the keys to this unintended land to the armies of Islam, to the caliph. Prior to the EC PARTI rule, Diyarbakır has been a province with no roads, water, agricultural areas; its economy is over; its unemployment rate is high; its investment is not expected; Diyarbakır has received services that it has not received in a hundred years, along with the EC PARTI ruling. The sum of Diyarbakır's year-long export figures is equivalent to the last 40 years of exports. The region has applied for organised investment in the sixth district, 200 investors have been assigned 3,500 acres of land to the organised industrial area in addition to benefit from their investment. The budget for Diyarbakır roads in the AK PARTİ administration... spends $1 billion between 2002 and 2012, making roads, boulevards, and environmental arrangements that the municipalities do not intentionally. Black Sea north-south current roads are being made, and 13 hours of highways and highways from Diyarbakır to Tripoli are reduced to five hours. Diyarbakir has three dams in total, and six billion euros have been spent and continued to be spent between 2002 and 2012 by the State Water Affairs General Directorate, along with $1 billion worth of irrigation and publicisation projects. When these projects are finished, only about 500,000 hectares of land will be placed in the irrigation area in Diyarbakır, and 500,000 of our people will work in agriculture. Diyarbakır will import workers from outside. At the same time, electricity is being produced by HES, which is established in the counties. In the southern part of the existing airport, we're building a terminal building with an international capacity of 5 million passengers/years, 86,800 square meters, serving domestic and external lines. This area will also be provided with the establishment of the customs directorate and direct flights. In all the districts of Diyarbakır, we built sports centers, closed gyms, football fields. Diyarbakır has been assigned land for the Olympic stadium of 33,000 people, and it will soon be a groundbreaking ceremony. The urban transformation has begun, and our people have begun to move into modern structures. The Tigris Valley Project has been initiated by the ministries concerned. During the EC PARTI ruling period, more than 1,500 facilities and projects were opened in Diyarbakir in ten years, and the total cost of these projects was over 3 billion. Health centres addressed to the Middle East have been established, and publicisation has been launched for 600-bed hospitals. Our historical monuments are being renovated; the Artuklu Palace, the Fifth Haremi Sheriff, the Great Mosque, and the Temple of Prophets in the Kneden. With a population of 1.5 million people, Diyarbakır addresses 5 million people. How can I live in palaces when Jerusalem is under siege, which has written its name in gold letters in our history, as well as in the name of the great commander who lived in the tent, Selahattin Ayyubi, who lived in Jerusalem until he conquered Jerusalem? The university, which will be established with your approval, will act as a uniter in your name. Next are two universities of university and third universities. The best answer to terrorism is investment and employment. We don't just look at the country from Diyarbakır, we don't just see the country from Diyarbakır... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from Edirne to Hakkari, we have an understanding that cares about every square inch of the country. We're not small like someone else, we're big thinkers. We welcome you from the city of peace, love, brotherhood, and tolerance. From here I greet my fellow citizens who live all over the city of Diyarbekir, and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0005par0049	Thank you, Mr. Heartfelt. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Bolu MP Tanju Özcan (Bullu) who wants to talk about issues related to social security and working life. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Ozcan.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0006par0054	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, although I took the word off the agenda today as Bolu MP Tanju Özcan, I will not be speaking as Tanju Özcan. I'm here today to share with you the text of the speech sent from the prison by Mr. Mustafa Balbay, who has been a prisoner in Silivri, for a thousand and three hundred and twenty-three days. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Greetings from here to hundreds of patriots who have been unjustly held captive for months, especially Mr. Balbay and Haberal. I'd like to share the speech with you and the General Assembly. Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I have made a promise from Silivri to express my views on the problems of social security and working life. Man has four basic rights: life, housing, health and education. Given the negative picture of work accidents, these four basic rights are all related to working life and social security. The government is constantly passing legal regulations on these matters through the Parliament. Sadly, the vast majority of these arrangements are restrictive to employees' social rights. The recent amendment to the ban on strikes on airway workers is one of the first to come to mind. Members of lawmakers, the government's final preparations for a recent change in collective contract and business organisation, which is very interested in working life, have led to a new unrest and uncertainty. It must not be forgotten that business peace is as important as domestic peace. At this point, it would be no exaggeration to change the name of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security to the ministry of conflict and social tension. When it comes to living people, the political authority, which says, "Let the state live." When it comes to the rights of workers and civil servants, it applies to: "Screw the worker so that you don't lose touch with the capital." Members of parliament, the government's discrimination among public employees is a typical example of the general attitude. In that sense, I'd like to address the state of the death guard officers who served in prisons on the floor of the House. First of all, the practice of contracted personnel in countries that have adopted the principle of social state, which have created a very serious imbalance among employees, is also a serious problem for execution guards. The guards of the execution are security personnel and administrative employees on the payroll. Therefore, professional weariness is not allowed. The government, which gives similar professions that require security, gives them a share of wear and tear. As he enters the institution where he works, the execution guards, who leave everything connected to the cell phone inside the institution, who open and close an average thousand doors a day, who deal with all sorts of people, describe themselves as: "Othuz is sentenced to five years in prison, debt-ridden prisoners. Members of parliament, the re-entry rate of a person entering a prison in Turkey is almost higher than most of the countries in which we live at the level of civilization. One reason is that when people are in prison, they lack the ability to try to bring them into society. You'll agree that it's very difficult for an unresolved execution guard to operate on this matter. Besides, it's hard to say that the Justice Department is also in a systemic study, co-ordinated with relevant ministries. Any employee, a peaceful working life, a functioning state, projects that have been completed in time, will return as a peaceful society with the government. I invite the government to look at working life this way. From Silivri, İzmir MP Mustafa Balbay.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0007par0067	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Congressmans, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to give the MPs who have entered the system a minute on the basis of the Internal Charter 60. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0008par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is October 18, 2012, the 21st anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Azerbaijan, which we described as one nation, two states. Therefore, on behalf of myself and the National Movement Party, I celebrate the 21st anniversary of Azerbaijan's independence. On the other hand, I'd like to point out that yesterday, PKK terrorists attacked the village of Bulakbaş, Karakoyunlu, Iğdir, and kidnapped six of our teachers. In the wake of our students, our headman, and our Bulakkaş villagers, the PKK terrorists had to release six of our teachers. I'd like to thank the Burakhead villagers who are shielding themselves with our teachers, and I'd like to say that I wish that this model behavior would be shown throughout our entire country. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0009par0076	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0010par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ankara-Istanbul Inter-TEM highway has been under constant renovation since it was built in Turkey. Traffic on such an important route falls on one lane at least six or seven times and endangers drivers. Especially for years, asphalt and renovations have continued at regular intervals in the Izmit section of the road. Why is the road's asphalt renovation ongoing? Why is a stronger and longer-lived material not being chosen for the Ankara-Istanbul TEM highway, one of Turkey's most important main arteries? It is clear that the spending of money, the wasted fuel, and the time, have damaged the national wealth. I believe there must be a certain solution to this path at once. The cancellation of the Haydarpaşa-Ankara railway has condemned our citizens to one desperate road. Our citizens are forced to take this route. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0012par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is a day of celebration in the world as the Day of the War on Poverty. On the one hand, poverty, corruption and raises have bent the back of a citizen. Recent increases have further reduced the quality of a citizen's life. The rise in natural gas, electricity, fuel has upset the budgets of small and fixed-income citizens. In the winter of 2013, more AKPs and tax colds are cold than snow. A rise in oil is actually a raise in every area of life. Today, Turkey is a country that eats the world's most expensive meat, pays the highest tax and consumes the most expensive fuel. Despite this, the increase and tax flow cannot be taken. The current government has no problem closing its income-go scissors, such as balancing the production-commerce balance. Import-export, investment-cost balance is not even known by the Authority. The ruling money lives on the Lale Age to its citizens and its followers, with its unrecognisable money and its current beauty. Justice and Development Party (AKP) Turkey...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0011par0089	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Ozcan...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0013par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the Forestry Management Directorate in Bolu County has been closed illegally since 2003. In 2003, our Fourdivan Forest Business Directorate was shut down along with the 24 forest management directorates across Turkey, and 13 of the 24 businesses, including Fourdivan, have not been opened yet, even though the State of Turkey cancelled this administrative procedure in 2006. I'd like to ask you from here: Even though there is an open court order, why is it that the 13 forest management departments, including the Fourdivan Forestry Management Directorate, are not opened, even though 11 of the 24 closed forest businesses, have been opened? Is it not known by the Prime Minister and the ministers that this is a crime? I'd like to know the answer to that. In this context, I'm also curious if the government will bring the legal arrangement for the problems of the forest peasant it's been putting off for years to come to Parliament this semester.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. Ozcan. Mr. Eyeborn...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0015par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, buildings are obliged to obtain an EKB document according to energy identity regulations. This operation, which you have to do online from a single website, is due to the lack of capacity of the site, which takes more than a day while it will be done shortly. This problem hasn't been fixed in two years. Processing is recommended by the agency late at night from the site. How can a website server problem not be solved in two years? It's a real shame about the work and time of the country's people. With an attempt to obtain an ECB document, the website can be locked dozens of times. We ask the Department of Energy Efficiency to answer why this website has not been corrected for two years and why complaints have been ignored so far.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0014par0101	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0016par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, with the decision of the Council of Ministers, there has been a right to postpone the debt of the farmers who were damaged between January 1st and August 28th 2012 due to natural disasters, first 60th and then all of our provinces. However, according to the Council of Ministers' decision issued on September 24, 2012, the application has been submitted until September 28th. Because of the introduction of the decision, the announcement, and the lack of accurate assessment of the time of many of our farmers, many farmers throughout Turkey today are unable to actually benefit from it and face serious problems in implementing it. I'd like to address the government's valued cabinet members: If you really want to delay the farmer's debt and contribute, you'll have to think about the problems he'll cause in practice. I demand a solution to the problems the farmers have today.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0017par0108	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Canalioğlu...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0018par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. In the explosion in Afyonkarahisar, 25 fallen soldiers, one from Tripoli, the definition of a natural disaster martyr for our child has hurt their families deeply and caused them pain. When sending their children on a mission as a soldier, it was pointless and unappropriate to be given a rank like the natural disaster martyr to our children who were martyrs in God's name, who were not able to provide safety in the headquarters of our families, who were entertaining and sending their children away with prayers. Now it is being tried to correct such a painful statement. Is it ever considered a natural disaster when an arsenal explodes in the army yard? I'd like to say once again that this title should be given to our martyrs, given this title, and the title that burns their hearts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0019par0114	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0020par0117	Mr. President, thank you. Recently, I visited the village of Cafana, the village of Ethics, 180 digits, which had a history of seven hundred years, 17km from Malatya. The village has a sewer, the center of the septic village, its phosphorus is inadequate, and it's leaking into the village. You know the smell of coming to this village when you're crossing the road to Ankara. The smell of sewers, I'm afraid, has covered the village and many other environments. The kids can't sleep till the morning, because of the mess and the fly, the kids are getting sick. Seven village children come to school in the village, and unfortunately the water flows for an hour and a half a day, and the children can't wash their hands, they get sick. Right now, the village of Cafana is facing an epidemic. Thirty-five households in the village, the village's relations with the state, the executive papers in the village, and his relationship with the politician now is time to choose. The Cafanans say: 'Have you no conscience?' And they say again: 'Let your vote be forbidden you.' Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0021par0120	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Wolf.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0022par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. About a week before Ramadan Day, there was a tornado disaster in the Alpagut district of Mihalgazi, Eskişehir Province, Turkey, and all the goods of the villagers, whose basic income was agriculture, were destroyed. However, there has been no assistance, no support from the private administration or the government. I wish that this would be known and that these Alpaguts would be put to work as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0023par0126	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0024par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to make it clear to you that today there has been as much a humanitarian crisis in the prisons of 126,000 prisoners and prisoners as it is political. Hundreds of political prisoners are on an unchanging hunger strike, launched thirty-seven days ago to stress that the peaceful, democratic solution of the Kurdish problem could be possible if two basic demands are met. The risk of life of an indefinitely unchanging hunger strike is now at stake, and it also points to a fatal date at an irreversible point. From this point of view, I have been promised first to the attention of democratic public, and then to convey my motions for the Council to take over this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0025par0132	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Mr. Dora...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0026par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. The textbook, which was taught in the 10th grade, was written openly and openly against human rights about the Suryans and Armenians. The book contains thoughts that contain hatred speech that defame the Saracens and Armenians. Hate speech is a matter of interest to everyone. This curriculum, which includes hate speech, concerns not only the Surarans and Armenians, but all mankind. To remove this curriculum from the history books that undermine relations between our citizens, I call on everyone, especially our MPs, who are sensitive to human rights, democratic minds, embrace universal ideas. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0027par0138	Thank you, Mr. Dora. And finally, Mr. Ediboglu...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0028par0141	Thank you, Mr. President. At dawn yesterday morning, Syrian dissidents who raided Mehmet Kılıç's house in Kağlar district of Hatay Reyhanlı district are kidnapping the Syrian there on the grounds that he is pro-led by the regime. Then, he welcomes those two Syrian citizens, a citizen named Mehmet Kılıç, who is hosting them in his home, and demands that the Syrian refugees, along with their relatives, raid the houses he rented there, bring back those two people by taking their wives and children hostage. A few hours later, those two people are released. The case has arrived at the courthouse, and I'm looking for an explanation from the Home Office. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0029par0144	Thank you, Mr. Ediboglu. We're going on the agenda, Mr. Lawmakers. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the province of Afyonkarahisar, we have 98th and 104th Constitution in order to determine the problems and solutions to the efficient use of marble resources in the production of marble and natural stone in the province of Afyonkarahisar, in order to make administrative and institutional legal arrangements. And 105. We propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened based on the basis of the clauses. [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] 5) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Mersin]] [[Tripoli]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kastamon]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mughle]] [[Kayseri]] [[Eskişehir]] 14) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Antalya]] [[Slap]] [[Inconceived]] [[Manisa]] Our country, located in the Alps, where the world's richest natural stone reserves are, has great potential for marbles with color and mineral diversity. There are 5,161 billion m3 marble deposits in all geographical regions from Thrace to Eastern Anatolia, including 1,545 billion m3 possible and 3.07 billion m3 possible reserves. The world's marble market creates a $15 billion annual market. But our country, which is a marble paradise, does not get a share of the cake's potential. Afyonkarahisar is the most heavily produced province in our country, but it is still able to evaluate a very small fraction of the potential. Within the reserve distribution, Afyon's share is around 12.2%. The total marble reserve is estimated at 600 million m3 m3 in Afyonkarahisar, with annual production capacity of around 6.9m3 m3, with losses of up to 30 per cent in the process of extracting and processing marble. Although there has been a constant trend in exports of marble in Afyonkarahisar, where over 200 factories are located, there are 4100 directly in Afyonkarahisar, 100,000 directly in our country, and 2,000,000 indirectly employed sectors; • the establishment of foreign trade companies related to the marble sector, • reconsidering financial control and price policy for the marble sector, • the use of marble furnaces and marble factories to the maximum of modern technology, • the immediate restructuring of legislation that has created major problems in front of marbleism, • lowering high credit rates and improving loans in order to increase employment and marble production, • Creating factories and factories by scientific, technical professional teams must be co-operated, university-industrial. In order to determine the problems and solutions of marble and natural stone production and exports in Afyonkarahisar, infrastructures and legal arrangements to be made, the creation of feasibility and research reports, and the measures to be taken, the 98th and 105th and 105th of the Constitutional Charter of TBM. In accordance with the clauses, I'd like to submit a parliamentary investigation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under 98, 104 and 105 articles of the constitution, we request that a parliamentary investigation be opened in order to determine the necessary measures for the removal of these victims of the Czech trades and traders, who have been victims of legislation that has been in effect since 2003, and to determine the negative conditions of the families affected by this victimhood, and to investigate the ways of solutions. 1) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] 6) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 7) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 13) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İstanbul]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[Scholarship]] 22) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[Denizli]] [[Artvin]] [[Antalya]] [[Antalya]] 27) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 29) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 32) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] The verb for procedural checks was considered a criminal offense that required criminal fines starting in 2003, and Czech law 5941, which is still in effect, was organized as a criminal fine and security measures. As a negative impact from 2008, many of our merchants and tradesmen have suffered from a lack of payment. Due to the implementation of the law, they are also called Czech victims. 405,704 cases have been filed in local courts due to a check. The 53,544 check files have been waiting in the Supreme Court for a verdict, The 163,621 case has been investigated in the Supreme Court's Attorney General's Office. Since thousands of people still lie in prisons and have lost their jobs and ability to pay off debts because they failed to pay their debt to the state due to the judicial fine they were convicted of, thousands of families have been victimised. In order to address these victims, the government has not made any attempt on this matter, even though I offered the president of the TBMM on 23.09.2011 to amend law 5941. For this reason, it is imperative to determine how many people are still in prison for the implementation of the law, and how many families have been divorced for economic reasons due to the loss of a check, and how many children of broken families have been forced to participate in the crime. The fact that all of these investigations have been conducted and linked to the report, and thus the government's mandate and responsibility, along with the reasons for neglect and responsibility and the measures needed to be taken, will contribute to the solution of the problem. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly One of the basic values of a democratic society is the right to a meeting and demonstration. The European Convention on Human Rights 11 and 34 of our Constitution Under the same right defined in the article, each person has the right to peacefully express their opinions, to express their criticism of public administration, and to expose its discomfort over social problems, using the right to a meeting and demonstration without prior permission. As this right and the duty of public control in a democratic society have been carried out, it has been guaranteed to share dissatisfaction with the public administration in an open society. It's the second time in our constitution. The right to a meeting and demonstration, which is a democratic, secular and social legal state under its purview, means that no rape has been revealed to those who exercise it, and that public order has been maintained. Public servants who are obliged to maintain public order are also expected to be sensitive. On 11 November 2011, non-profit violence was imposed against citizens in Van who wanted to explain their circumstances to public officials, preventing them from using their basic rights. Earlier, on October 19, 2011, veterans wanted to protest terrorism in Ankara, students who wanted to protest the government at the opening ceremony of a university on October 12, 2011, were prevented in this way from using their rights in numerous cases other than what took place in Gerze, villagers, Erzurum and Hopa on 5 September 2011. The EU Progress Report, released on 12 October 2011, shows that the use of non-proportionate force continues, indicating that it is also a violation of rights. No doubt resolving this rights violation would mean that the standard of democracy in our country will also rise. For these reasons, the Constitution is 98, in order to ensure the freedom of opinion and expression of citizens, the freedom of assembly and the right to demonstration, the determination of problems related to this, and the determination of solutions, in order to find the reasons for the law enforcement to use non-profit force, to investigate all non-integrated powers. Your index is 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit the need to open a parliamentary investigation. [[İstanbul]] 2) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Adana]] [[Erzincan]] 9) Omar Suha Aldan [[Mughle]] [[40s.]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] 14) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Manisa]] [[İzmir]] [[Çanakkale]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 20) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 21) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] 25) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 29) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 32) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Edirne]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and then submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Thursday 18,10,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 03,02,2012, Ankara MP Levent Gök and his friends suggested that the Turkish Parliament be read to the Grand National Assembly at the same time in the same date as the Council of Assembly Research, which has been given by the Council for the purposes of investigating and determining the issues that should be taken under the direction of Ataturk's will under the direction of the Ataturk Forest Farm. Ankara MP Levent Gök in favour of the Republican People's Party group's proposal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0030par0376	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. What we're going to discuss here today is our motion to conduct a parliamentary investigation, a motion that, in essence, all of our MPs should vote on. I hope that the Ataturk Forest Farm, which the Great Ataturk, which provides us with the opportunity to establish this great Assembly and join us in it, will all our friends, all those who love Ataturk, and all those who love Ataturk, will be allowed to vote on this motion to determine the savings of use outside the grant until now. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the men who founded the Republic of Turkey, have always expressed the necessity of an economic model that will make their political achievements permanent. While modern political institutions are being implemented, industrialisation in rural and urban areas has been highlighted as an economic model to feed these political institutions. The Republic of Turkey envisioned a model of development based on industrialisation both in the city and in rural life. The Ataturk Forest Farm Project is a placemental and legal view of the Turkish Republic's development policy. The Ataturk Forest Farm was founded on 5 May 1925 by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk on 55,470 acres of land, first in Ankara, then in the purchase of new land. The aims of the farm are to explore new species for the rehabilitation of the grain species, to develop animalism, to harvest acquired agricultural products, to plant with scientific methods, to transition to machine agriculture, and to create social, cultural areas where the people of Ankara will have fun, to travel with. In the early days, a section of the Ataturk Forest Farm, called the Forest Farm and the Gazi Farm, was a swamp during its first founding. An important part of it is too salty for agriculture, too poor for nitrogen and phosphate. However, by diligent and scientific studies, a significant portion of the field is put into a position of agriculture. Ataturk, meanwhile, gives all his farms to the treasure with two writings dated June 11th and 13th 1937, hoping to manage the Ataturk Forest Farm, which he founded, within the framework of its founding purposes. After the donation, the State Agriculture Corporation, established on January 1, 1938, under Law 3308, takes over all the moving sites, and the Forest Farm becomes the "Gazi Forest Farm." The farms that Ataturk had donated can maintain that status for only 11 years. Taking into account the property of the farm, on March 24, 1950, an organization belonging to the Ministry of Agriculture is established under the name Ataturk Forest Farm. Despite the law clauses for the protection of the farm, the farmland boosts the appetite of many public and private organisations in the years to come, with Ankara's growth, the need for concentrated infrastructure and rant pressures affect the farm in a negative way. As a result of these land demands, I'd like you to listen carefully, Mr. Lawmakers -- today the Ataturk Forest Farm land, which was 55,470 decedents when it was founded, has landed to 33,487 degrees. Over the past years, this land has lost about 42 per cent of its land existence by law, by way of revolution or sale. Adding purposeless use in the rental areas, this rate increases to 50 percent. The Ataturk Forest Farm was later declared a natural and historical site in 1992 and was also declared a first-degree site. But even those decisions weren't enough to protect the integrity of the Ataturk Forest Farm. The loss of land around here has also caused property problems on farm property. The Ataturk Forest Farm, which has lost its integrity, is also wanted to be completely destroyed by plans adopted in 2007. The local and historical fabric of the farm is being damaged under pressure from both urban and growing city. During this period, the future of Ataturk Forest Farm land has been abandoned to the balance of the global economy, which local governments have paid in debt, and to the understanding of illegal planning and governance of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. Finally, the Forest General Directorate has asked that the area of the Ataturk Forest Plantation Gazi Facility, which is owned, be removed from its first-degree natural and historical site protection area, be registered as a third-degree natural and status area. The Ankara Regional Council for Protection of Culture and Natural Beings dropped 46 hectares from the first-degree site to the third-degree site, with a decision dated August 10, 2011. Again, the Regional Commission for Protection of Natural Beings has dropped the property of the Ataturk Forest Farm and Ankara Metropolitan Municipality to the third degree of first-degree status in Yenimahalle district of Yenimahalle. This area gained a separate legal dimension with the transfer of the area to the Prime Minister's Office of the General Directorate of Forest Gazi Facility to be built on 24 February 2012, and is built here as part of the agreement signed between the Forest General Directorate and TOKİ. My dear friends, that photograph you saw was taken in April. There's no construction and no savings at the site I'm pointing out, but five months later, as you can see, the foundations of the construction of the Prime Minister's Palace have been raised in this area. You can also see in the recent photos that we've taken, right at the heart of the Ataturk Forest Farm, the Prime Minister's Palace is being built. Dear lawmakers, have you ever heard of a notice in the press that the Prime Minister's Palace has been built? This area is located in a place known as the liver of the Ataturk Forest Farm and is built by kidnapping from the public. Why do you need a groundbreaking ceremony of the Prime Minister's building, the most important institution of the Republic of Turkey, when you've performed the groundbreaking ceremony of even a ten-metre building? Why was this ceremony not performed, what was hidden from the people...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0031par0388	We're not having a groundbreaking ceremony, we're opening.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0030par0389	And why was the Ataturk Forest Farm chosen when this place was chosen? As you can see, the legacy of Ataturk is being destroyed and looted by the Prime Minister himself and severely. Dear MPs, in the Ataturk will, I entrust these farms under my possession to the treasury along with all the plumbing, the animals and the forges. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's donation to the treasure may be used for the will and order of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has donated the Ataturk Forest Farm to the treasure to be used in a whole as an agricultural business. Thus, the Ataturk Forest Farm can only be used to provide for Ankara as a modern agricultural business under the donation bill. The Treasury can't afford legal or administrative savings to disrupt that quality of this farm. The farm can only be used as a focus of agricultural industry, agricultural products production. This is the only way we can use Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's donation. This constitutionally protected right is the continuation and necessity of property and inheritance rights. The rules of protection established for the state and for the special people must be included in Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. As in Law No. 5669 regarding Ataturk Forest Farm, the legislator can only determine the management of the Ataturk Forest Farm. Other than that, he has no choice. Civil society organisations have applied to include the Ataturk Forest Farm in the cultural landscape and also in the world heritage list. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will prove once again that we will not be able to claim our Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who founded the Republic of Turkey. We don't want much from you, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has willingly donated and donated to the state and left the land for agricultural use to determine the use of non-seminals until now, and is now in the interest of determining the healthy arrangements to be made. With this motion, Mustafa Kemal would like to see all of you under the roof of this House, with the heart of lawmakers to show once again the determination to take care of Ataturk and all of his friends. I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0032par0394	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Against you, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0033par0398	Thank you. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been called against, but I'm going to talk about it because that's one of the shames of our Civil Code; two in favor, two against. Why not talk about it? Here, as I was actually starting my words, I was going to say, is the Ataturk Forest Farm the AKP's farm? But I looked into it, and it was farmed before the AKP, so after the Ataturk Forest Farm was built, every government farm that came after the will went into the treasure actually used it as a farm. They've started...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0034par0401	Most of all, it was the AKP's farm, but at this time.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0033par0402	Now, I'm going to talk a little bit about who got a cut. It starts between 38 and 50, and it starts at that time, to seize the farm's land. Then there's the brutal intervention of privatisation in '76 and '94. Sumerbank's leaving, Tekel General Directorate, Agriculture Agency's leaving. These organizations and their land are being put on the market. But recently, in 2005, the AKP government is doing as much as all of this combined. So we're looking at a government that intervenes in the status quo of the entire period. Now, here, there's an inheritance mentality, a vast green area on the moors like Ankara. From the TEMA Foundation, the importance of historical, culture, production in many aspects of time, not in a city, but in an important Ataturk Forest Farm for Turkey, is the transit area of TOKI, after the changes were always done without the public being asked and the status area was declared. Indeed, the TOKI empire is a separate event. But for TOKI, it means "transite" for "sit" for "transit" for "transit." He knows no borders, no zoning, no will, no treasure, no planning. TOKI does everything he can to get in there like a bulldozer. I mean, architect engineering rooms called for sensitivity, started signing campaigns, other agencies sued, did a lot of work on TEMA trees. And he is the master of the village nation. He is the boss of the nation. He began to identify with his word. After all that's been done here, the Prime Minister will do a little White House, he can do it. Shall we ask Ankara, the people who live here? No. But there are other things at the Ataturk Forest Farm. Isn't there any point in investigating this, fellas? I do. Isn't there any point in this being planned properly? I do. Well, since Congress is a closely-connected organization, is there any point in the House making this decision and doing research on it? I do. Well, then we as a group would be in favor of that kind of investigation. Why should we be against him? It's an approach to green, environment, nature, production, ecology, whatever it is, that needs to be supported from our point of view. Kala kala, you're looking, and here are the graveyards left in the metropolitan cities for the sake of the greenness, or where the troops are, and there's the Ataturk Forest Farm left in Ankara. Well, if you lift them up, they'll go back to the exact same place. In this regard, we think about this research proposal brought by the Republican People's Party, and it's really useful to investigate. I don't need to get into too much detail here, urban regeneration law, the zoo situation there, etcetera, because if there's going to be a study, it's going to be all over and it's going to be a healthy outcome. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to point out a few things. You know, in 53 prisons right now, 423 people are on hunger strike on the 37th day, and the Turkish Medical Association says the critical threshold for these hunger strikers has been breached. Now, this hunger strike of 423 people, again the most massive hunger strike in our history, is limitless, and 144 people have lost their lives in hunger strikes since 1980, and this hunger strike is becoming increasingly common. Yesterday, our Şırnak MP in Mardin Prison -- who should be in Parliament -- has started a hunger strike for solidarity. Can you imagine, a member of the House has begun a hunger strike as of October 15th? Doesn't this House have a Human Rights Commission, people? So do you have to get a letter or a request? So the newspapers don't allow you to move? Even a commissioner can raise the voice of his conscience and make it a demand, and, well, in some of the prisons -- the important ones -- he can have a meeting with the Turkish Medical Association experts, and ask why you're on hunger strike, and when he asks, he gets the answer very clearly. What do the hunger strikers say? One, let there be isolation; two, let there be defence and training in the main language; three, let the negotiations begin. Now, we face a human shame if this Parliament doesn't hear the voices of these three prisoners, whose legitimacy is the only way to place their body on a hunger strike in the dungeons. The Prime Minister says, "If the blood stops, you go with the Imralı. " Go, brother. Who's holding you? For God's sake, who's stopping you? Who says don't go, don't talk? And that's a very clear issue. These demands, these tensions, these conflicts, to overcome all of this, need to have a meeting, a dialogue, a negotiation process. Today, two weeks, three weeks ago, the routine Ankara talks held in some newspapers, the normal dialogues of a party with a group in parliament, the normal talks, the regular problems, are we at a door to soften the process, let alone these conflicts, is it possible to open up a new opening, to see that there is nothing more right than the right way to meet on the right grounds, on the right grounds, or in the Parliament, or in the Köshk. We saw it as a normal conversation from our point of view, and we didn't go public, we didn't feel the need to explain things, friends. There are some things that really happen that you're interviewing the President, the Speaker, you're interviewing the other parties, we're interviewing the ruling party, we're talking to the main opposition. Hopefully, one day, we'll have a more comfortable conversation with the MPP, and we'll get to the point where we can meet. As long as we can get politics to do the solution to the problem in this country by putting will in parliament. I'm saying, in that sense, that these negotiations are very necessary, that they need to be done. Again, as a final statement, I welcome the founding of the People's Democratic Congress by partying and welcoming the foundation of the People's Democratic Party from here, and by organizing political life as soon as possible in the 81 district of Turkey, I wish that a new breath, a new sound, a new voice, a new address for solutions and all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0035par0416	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favour of the proposal, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0036par0420	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first and foremost, before I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. The purpose of the group proposed by the Republican People's Party is really important and valuable. He demands that a commission be set up to investigate all arrangements for the use of property that Ataturk gave to the will and the treasure. It's really important to treat this student with respect as the National Party of Action. The founder of our Republic, the Bani of this House, the founder of this House, the Great Ataturk, has wills for us, the legacy he left us, but beyond that, he has a trust. In his speech, he speaks of the Ataturk Forest Farm on the 11th of the 6th month, 1937, saying: "I entrust these farms under my roof to the treasury along with all the plumbing, and the zoo and its forges. Dear friends, the inheritance is bequeathed, the will is disrespected, but the trust is betrayed. Today, in the trust of Ataturk, I believe, not only this power, but many powers have been betrayed; I mean in the sense of misuse. Therefore, the investigation of these wrongs is a duty of loyalty, a duty of respect for Ataturk. Therefore, I would advise you not to consider this commission as a common demand, an opportunity to kill time, an opportunity, an attraction of opposition. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the General Assembly, must sometimes succeed in doing the right thing. We need to keep certain issues out of our own conflicts, such as Ataturk. We need to view matters of the great Ataturk, as a common denominator of this party as a matter of this party, and we need to approach it with kindness and respect. To me, this proposal from the Republican People's Party Group today should be taken into account and put in front of everything in this sense, and I think it would be a very meaningful decision to set up a commission, not even a three-month-old, to determine the consequences of these errors, to determine the will of Ataturk, his legacy, his trust, and the consequences of these errors. I do, but unfortunately, as far as I'm concerned, we're talking about red seats and people who don't listen. And I don't know who to complain to. Let me offer our following citizens a view from here and from the House. We're talking about a request for something we care about, something we care about, the ears of the red seats that don't hear, the eyes that don't see.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0037par0426	We're listening.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0036par0427	I pay my respects to the audience, Mr. Domaç. Dear friends, in that sense, as a friend of yours, a forest high engineer, I'd like to point out one thing. In fact, the incident that Mr. Sky spoke of with a well-prepared speech is truly at the level of oasis, the level of betrayal of trust. Dear friends, our Ankara is our capital, Ankara with 5 million residents, but it's a city on the moors, lost among the yellows, lost in buildings, without taste. We have people who travel abroad, see big cities. For a city to become a great city, architects, urban architects, planners tell the story, saying: "He must have a forest, he must have a city forest. Now, it is announced to Mr. Mayor of Justice and Development Party, who has ruled our city for more than 20 years: It is necessary for this city to build a city, a city, a city, a city, and a high quality capital. And you have to have a water, you have to have a stream. Our Ankara lacks both, I'm afraid. Now, we have areas where we can make green space, where we can make forest, sir, we can make urban forest, and we're wasting them for very simple purposes. One of them is the forest headquarters campus in the Ataturk Forest Farm. Mr. General Manager is here, they're watching me. It's really forestry, but for all forestmen, not just forest engineers, but for all forest engineers, the Forest General Directorate's campus on the Farm is a valuable place with special significance. I mean, I don't want to make a big deal out of it, saying, "Our church, our sanctuary" and all that, but for us, the farm is such a valuable area of the profession that we spend most of our lives in for the forestmen. No forester can swallow this place as abandoned for no reason, no reason at all. I know Mr. Coffeeman can digest it -- he has his signature on it, but -- I don't think so. I know that you've gone to sleep, that your children or your forestry friends will ask him about it in their dreams, because he's very valuable to us. Our youth passed there, not to mention our childhood, but our childhood in forestry passed there, our old age, our retirement, but now we're leaving there, my friends. You have no right. There may be some very important, valuable land in Ankara where we will build a prime minister's building or use it for other purposes, but it is not right to take away that 460 acres of land, which is part of that farm, which is in the hands of the forestmen. If this power were to do the best things in the world with the forestmen, it would be condemned for its action, not for its good, I want you to know that. I want you to know that the woodsmen won't forgive you for taking the Farm Camp out of the hands of the woodsmen. Now, you dug 40 or 50 acres out there, like this, into the ground, and you cut down a lot of trees. It is said that 2,500, 3,000 trees have been cut down. Pity, dear friends. Protecting the forests... so there's no right reason for cutting down the green, cutting down the tree in Ankara, Turkey's capital city, Ankara, as prisoners of yellow. We can't possibly accept it. All the foresteers are protesting with a terrible cry, setting up platforms. Sir, the meetings are being held, the notices are being published, but we did it, we did it. You say. So you don't need the people, you don't need the people, you don't need the people's demands, you don't need the screams, you don't hear them. But this place is important to the forestmen. It's not land like this, it's not land like this, it's a building like that, it's a forestry sanctuary. I also made a promise to the Ankara Regional Council for the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings that took this from the first-degree natural site to the third-degree status area. Dear friends, we will condemn these people. He's been given to the courts. What they're doing is wrong, what they're reporting isn't true. Mr. Coffeemaker knows that the land in this area, that was in the woods before it was the Forest General Directorate. How can you ignore a 60-year-old cedar tree? Because these trees are planted by human hands, they do not belong in the community. I strongly condemn this council in your presence. I mean, that's the most twisted example of being a tool for politics. I condemn those who abuse your knowledge, those who sell your judgment, those who sell their consciences in public because they want politics. So I say we support the establishment of this commission as the National Movement Party, and I pay tribute to your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0038par0435	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Against you, Karabuk MP Osman Coffeeci.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0039par0438	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's motion to open a parliamentary investigation in order to determine and establish the amendments to Ataturk's will and grant purpose at the Ataturk Forest Farm. I salute the High Council. Meanwhile, I also celebrate the founding day of Azerbaijan, a friend and brother country. Members of parliament, one of the most important places given to our nation by the founder of our republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is the Ataturk Forest Farm. In the spring of 1925, Ataturk told the country's prominent farmers that he wanted to build a modern farm in the vicinity of Ankara and ordered them to find suitable land. When experts offer many alternatives, he points to the location of today's farm. On the edge of Ankara, this place, which is both barren and barren, orders reformation and farming. Ataturk wanted to buy a modern farm for Turkey's agriculture in a place where trees were not even growing, and ordered immediately to start working to build the Veteran Forest Farm. First, 20,000 acres of land were bought from Mrs. Faika Faika, the wife of the late Abidin Pasha, and later, Etimesgut, Balgat, Cakaler, Doves, Macun, Tahar, and Rain Baba farms. In this way, the Veterans Forest Farm is established on a land that has grown large enough for a large and modern farming operation. In this way, Ataturk intended to present the first examples of modern agricultural techniques to Turkey's agriculture as well as to provide for Ankara's people's only need for employment. In short, Ataturk founded the Farm with the intention of showing the agricultural investors as pioneers in agricultural activities that agriculture is actually a profitable business. With this purpose, the Farm has been an example of all the people. Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk directed this farm himself from 1925 to 37 years ago, when he bought it all with his own money. In 1937, he gave his beloved place to the treasure, and thus to the people, and the Veterans Forest Farm was linked to the State Agriculture Authority in 1938. The farm, run at this status for 12 years until 1950, was adopted into the State Production Farms on 1/3/1950. Shortly after that, Ataturk's Law No. 5659, issued on 24/3/1950 under the will of Ataturk, became the current owner of the Ataturk Forest Farm. The Ataturk Forest Farm was also declared a natural and historical site with the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Nature, 2436, on 2/6/1992. The Ataturk Forest Farm operates in food, agriculture, environment, education and cultural areas as it is today. The final joke of the first article added to Article 5524 to Article No. 5659 is that there will be no commercial, industrial and housing construction on the site of the Ataturk Forest Farm. The 1/10,000-scale Ataturk Forest Farm area, the zoning plan and the first-degree natural status and historical status area, the basic development plan for protection and the lower-scale plans laid down based on this plan, were in line with the rules on the bet and approved by the Regional Council for the Protection of the Ataturk Culture and Nature. The approved decision does not allow any construction for commercial, industrial and housing purposes. The site of the Ataturk Forest Farm is 55,538. As property losses, 40 per cent of the land was lost in various ways from 1939 to 1994. At the beginning, 10,000 per cent land was sold to the Ministry of National Defence, 12,000 per cent of land sold to various institutions such as treasure, Machine Chemical and Turkish Air Agency. The site was sold to the Forest General Directorate in 1957 and is the property of the Forest General Directorate. This area was declared a first-degree natural site by the Ankara Council for the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings in 1992, but many service buildings and facilities were built before the DGM's land was set up. In this period of time, it has been developed into green tissue by the Director General of the Forest, such as many public institutions. The area that was empty and naked during the delivery of the field to the OGM is an artificially greened area, not natural, because it has been greenened by later plantation. Therefore, Ankara has been declared by the District Council for Protection of Culture and Nature, under the first-degree definition of natural status, stated in the Law for Protection 2863, and the 1/10,000-scale zoning plan has declared a third-degree area for continuing the purpose of public use. It is the property of the Forest General Directorate, which is a public institution -- its legal personality -- and its austerity authority belongs to the institution. The Forest General Directorate, which has a corporate personality, has the right to trade its properties for another public institution. In this framework, some of the land at the Veteran compound was traded to be used for Prime Ministerial services. As stated in the question motion, this place is not to be transferred to private institutions such as a large shopping centre or construction of a health centre. This area will be used by the Prime Minister in public service. The greening of other areas of the Ataturk Forest Farm continues. Between 1925 and 2002, a total of 4,500 per cent of the land was treesed between 2002 and 2012 -- four times as much as 18,500 per cent of its land in ten years. The area that's been planted in the last ten years has been four times that of the past year. In addition to planting, the Ataturk Forest Farm creates a park, forest and recreation area in a total of 3,000 per cent, including the site of the Zoo. The work of the national botanical garden has also been launched, and the process of establishing a national botanical garden in a thousand squares has begun in the first place. The project will include thousands of plants and flowers that grow in Turkey and will also be produced in the world where tropical plants will be found. The national botanical garden will open its doors to the public. The creation of areas where plant species can grow every season is planned to be offered to the service of our people as a decent forest. At the Ataturk Forest Farm, our MP just called it the Prime Minister's office, sir. He didn't open on its foundation. Yeah, we don't open on the ground, we open on the ground; we don't open on the ground, we open on the ground. The area in question is actually returning to the treasure. From the corporate personality of the Director General of the Forest, this area is returning to the treasure. Another... yes, that's how we claim the heritage of Ataturk. For years, naked, empty, garbage heaps, sir, the Ataturk Forest Farm, which has become a pile of rubble, is, in accordance with its will, trees, modernized, and, along with the botanical garden, for the first time, a national botanical garden that is not in our country is under way. Yes, we take care of Ataturk. Taking care of Ataturk will be with a modern, modern, improved and improved Turkey. That's what we're doing. For these reasons, I declare that we will vote against the proposal, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0040par0452	Thank you, Mr. Coffee Man.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0453	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0040par0454	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0455	Mr. President, of course, a few months ago, we submitted a motion to investigate the Ankara subway, and I spoke on it, and I came across a Rize MP from the AKP. I mean, where are the Ankara MPs at this party?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0042par0456	The former Director General of the Forest...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0457	We're talking about the Ataturk Forest Farm, and I'm dealing with the Blackbuke Congressman, and the Director General of the Forest... What's that got to do with it, I'm a congressman!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0043par0459	Is this a Tuesday market, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0460	Look, wait a minute, shut up, shut up. The Director General of the Forest...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0044par0462	What a shame it's you who's going to decide who's going to talk! How disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0463	...its greatest goal is to foresten Turkey, plant trees. Now, follow the example, where Mr. Speaker is acting as General Manager, 3,000 trees have just been slaughtered, just as Mr. Shandir said. What are you defending? What are you defending? 3,000 trees!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0045par0465	Mr. Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0466	See, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0045par0467	Mr. Sky, please, we don't have that kind of procedure, you...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0468	Now, Ataturk donated it for farming, for livestock. It is not the property of the AKP.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0045par0469	Mr. Sky, we don't have that kind of procedure, so please take your seat.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0046par0470	Mr. Levent...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0471	Brother, get up and talk, why don't you talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0047par0472	I'll talk to him.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0048par0473	Congressmans, please.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0041par0474	The Ankara MPs don't have faces to talk about it! (AK PARTY WHISPERING) Come out!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0049par0475	Mr. President, would you please step in?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0048par0476	It's on the record. Please, Mr. Sky, take your seat. Groups...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0050par0479	I'm talking to the Ankara subway, and there's the Rize MP. Where are your Ankara MPs? Where? That's why they know!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0051par0481	What's it to you?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0048par0482	Congressmans, I'd like to point out...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0052par0483	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0048par0484	Just a minute, Mr. Coffee Man... Groups can take out any lawmakers they want as group spokesman, and I don't think there's gonna be any blame in that. Yes, what do you want?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0053par0487	Mr. President, don't tease...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0048par0488	You've said enough, Mr. Sky has said enough. You've made yourself clear, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0054par0489	I defend the place where Ataturk gave, and you defend the place where you slaughtered him. And without shyness, we're looking at a friend who's a directorate of the forest.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0053par0490	I'd like to make a statement about the forest reforestation in our country, because my deputy picked on me.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0054par0491	I want all semesters investigated, are you in?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0055par0493	Please don't argue. There's no such procedure, Congressman. Mr. Coffeeman, please, I'll give you a minute to explain about the tree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0054par0496	It's all over the highway, Metropolitan City.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0056par0497	Listen... listen...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0057par0500	Congressmans, yes, I was the director of the forest in the past, and I'm honored to be running that agency.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0054par0501	You'll start by planting, not by slaughtering trees, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0057par0502	And as Director General of the Forest, we are now one of the first three countries in the world to plant trees. (AK PARTY) No one's going to be able to...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0054par0503	You talk about the farm, the farm...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0057par0504	All over Turkey... yes, one or two... yes...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0054par0505	You've destroyed trees, destroyed trees all over that area. You're defending the forest, the tree slaughter!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0058par0506	First you cut it, then you destroyed it...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0059par0507	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0060par0508	In Turkey, when infrastructure is being done in all the countries of the world, a natural tissue is less or more destroyed.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0509	You're making Ataturk suffer! Where are the Ataturkers? Where are the Ataturkers?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0062par0510	Is it up to you to become an Ataturker? Who are you?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0512	You are slaughtering the place which Ataturk gave.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0063par0513	The directorate of the forest has planted it. It cuts down trees and it's mandatory for the future of forestry. Yes, if he cuts down 100,000 trees, the forest headquarters will plant at least 100 times that each year. For him, the Director General of the Forest is not a tree cutter, but a general manager who makes trees and greens. There's absolutely no way we're going to accept that.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0515	You can't accept what? You slaughtered trees there, what are you defending? Don't be shy and defend me!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0063par0516	Of course, that's the way it is all over Turkey, all over the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When you pass the infrastructure, you have to get the trees...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0519	You're shamelessly defending me!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0064par0520	President...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0065par0521	Mr. Coffeeman, the matter is clear.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0522	Mr. President, I want a word too, and I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0065par0524	Please, Mr. Sky, the matter is closed. You said it, Mr. Coffeeman said it, it's clear. Please...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0525	I want a word, too, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0065par0529	I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0066par0530	Applause... Applause...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0061par0531	Yes, I'm going to...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0067par0532	Who are you? Who are you? Don't be rude, don't be rude! Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0068par0533	Congressmans, please remain calm. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. Now...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0069par0536	You're speaking incorrectly...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0070par0537	Don't be rude! Know your place, your place!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0068par0538	Congressmans, please... we're holding the debate from the council bench, not from a mutual conversation. Please...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0069par0539	Why won't you accept them? Why won't you accept them?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0071par0541	Take a break...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0068par0542	Dear Sky, please...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0072par0543	Do we have to do everything you say?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0073par0544	Of course you have to.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0068par0545	Please take your seats.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0074par0546	It's like your father's property, Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0068par0550	Now, we're going to vote for members of the Justice and Development Party that are available in some commissions.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0075par0551	He used Ataturk, and finished his show.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0076par0552	Yes, the whole nation is watching you, the whole nation is watching you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0077par0553	Mr. Levent, you've done your show, that's enough.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0076par0554	I don't do showbiz.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0078par0555	I'm reading the candidates: Corrum MP Cahit Bağcı has been nominated for a free membership in the Plan and Budget Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0079par0558	Don't do the hand-to-hand stuff in there!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0080par0559	I don't do gestures, I defend Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0081par0560	You've been using them for 80 years, that's enough!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0080par0561	Alas sin, there's been a massacre of trees, thousands of trees have been cut down, what are you defending there?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0082par0562	Take a break, sir, take a break, there's no negotiation in this noise.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0083par0563	Take a break, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0080par0564	Yes, we have, we have seen your Ataturkism.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit01spe0084par0566	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, I invite you to remain silent. Adana MP Fatosh Gürkan has been nominated for a free membership in the Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Kasım Gülpınar has been nominated for a free membership in the European Union's Integration Commission. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0084par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will resume negotiations with Turkey's Constitutional Commission Report, where we left off in the 1st ranking Turkey's Grand National Assembly's Adjudication Proclamation Proposal and Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission Reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. 2- State Secret Code Bill and European Union Compliance Commission and Justice Commission Reports (1/484) [[S. Number: 287]] Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the European Union's Integration Commission and the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission Reports in the 3rd place. The commission and the government are in place. In yesterday's merger, the vote was completed on the articles of the second chapter of the bill, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. We now begin the talks of section three. The third section includes the interim clauses, including 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, 61 to 83. On behalf of groups over the third chapter, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. (x) 197 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 3rd Union Charter, dated 3/10/2012. Here you go, Mr. Günal. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0085par0024	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. My dear friends, the Bill of Collective Business Relations, which we've discussed, unfortunately, has been waiting for a long time since New Year's, and we've had a lot of discussions at the end of the legislature, everyone's working life, despite their pressures, their debates, we've all witnessed that. Of course, those reactions were ignored, some of the statistics debates, the delays of the Ministry of Labor... Mr. Secretary said here I'm trying to do something with good intentions. But the opinion that came to them was sadly uncompromising and remained until today because of some reservations. From time to time, we hear: In every law proposal and bill, our fellow rulers flee to ease, saying, "Sir, opposition prevents, we can't bring it out." Well, of course it's the opposition's job -- we just talked about it at the Plan and Budget Commission last night -- to prevent it if it's wrong, Minister. We're here because it's our responsibility, and we need to have a proper legislature process. Well, that's our job, as far as we're concerned, in the name of the public, as far as we're concerned. Despite the pressure of the AKP government, despite pressure from the media of any kind, and here we are trying to communicate to us, despite its right to live. Of course, there's a lot more to discuss here than that. Dear friends, in recent years, there's been ununion. So, when we look at the numbers, let's stop encouraging organization, on the contrary, a coercionist, non-organized worker, and the same is true in public employees, unfortunately, is facing pressure. And when we look at the numbers, we can see them clearly, my dear friends. Now, we're looking at data from Turkey's Statistical Agency, about 16 million paid and paid employees, and about 12 million registered workers. Well, we're looking at unions: the number of organized workers, the final number may be more clear to our Minister, but I don't think he's got 900,000 yet, so they gave us the final number of 880-odd thousand. And he hasn't found the 600 thousand under the collective agreement, so the latest numbers were around 580,000. You see, it's a lot less public-organized, about 360,000, including municipalities. Maybe it's less, we don't know now, because there are different prints in the summer. And the municipalities will close now, where will they go, and what will happen? There's a new process of municipalities at the Internal Affairs Commission upstairs. There's a bigger mess waiting for us, Minister, and it's also waiting for you. Now, where will these go, what will be, will they be transferred? Before, you know, the private administration, the city, all of them, they've gone to a number of institutions, and now it seems inevitable that they'll have to face it again. Oh, Mr. Minister might say that he's getting nervous elsewhere, but when we look at it, the decline in OECD is very small, and there's a 10 percent decline in trade unionization in half. Of course, it's important, but really, dear friends, this subcontractorization process is causing significant losses to the workers. Many public jobs and municipalities are tried to be seen as indirect, subcontractorizing, avoiding certain burdens. And that leads to unionism, so that the supporting unions can gain weight, and on the other hand, so that we can't at least have a union. Why is that important? This union's rights, basic rights and homework, which are indispensable to democracy, are the rights guaranteed in the ILO contracts, in the Social Condition of the Council of Europe and in all international contracts. We, the National Movement Party, feel that the concept of this organizationization should also be considered in this framework, international law and fundamental rights. Of course, we've seen the same thing before, about civil servants' rights to work, about collective contractual rights, here in the public workers' union law. Unfortunately, the promises made in the Constitutional Amendment have not been fulfilled for a long time, and in the absence of a number of trade unions, they've been brought up with different arguments to favor some of them, and they've been incomplete, and a union organization has emerged in a way that has no right to strike, a monstrosity in a way. So why is it important to organize? When it's not organised, you make it work illegally, illegally, at the price you want it to, so the employee's rights have been violated, and there's no strings taken from him, and there's no institution left to defend their rights when they're registered, when they're registered, when they're union-free. Well, when we look at their fees, let's say that they come from the union part, and when we look at the wages of the workers, and look at the wages of the workers, we see that they don't get enough of the basic rights and homework that we just told them, human rights, and, unfortunately, to live on a human level. In this framework, we have to talk about the fact that this union law, which is so delayed, has been a step forward in order for those delayed contracts to be made, but it has these flaws in it. There's a lot of things. During the past period, Mr. Kalaycı, who was speaking on behalf of the MHP Group, mentioned something very important about the generality of the law; he mentioned the announcement of the Development Agency within our prime minister's office, and I wondered, and I looked, and he said ten reasons to invest in Turkey. There's something very strange and interesting here, dear friends, so the successful economy says the population, but there's one thing that's more severe: over 26 million young people who are trained and motivated, professional -- pro-employable efficiency -- he said it's 52.9 hours a week. I mean, we have a business force in terms of marketing the labor force of Turkey. And by saying, "Come, work hard, don't make a sound." Let's, of course, encourage the foreign investor here, by allowing the longest working period in Europe and the lowest rate of sickness per employee, by saying, "Let's give him incentives for this. What are we gonna do? If the government pays for it, pays for some of it, I don't know, other changes can be considered, but when we look at what's going on here, we've already come up with the way we look at the worker, the way we look at the employee, so that's not how the incentives are done, in certain ways, with tax reductions, investment reductions, or social security premiums. But we've become so, of course, that we can put it on our website like it's a positive thing. I find it very striking, and I give the Minister's attention, as our minister, who needs to protect the rights of the workers. Of course, by the way, I'm not talking about the pensioner's, the pensioner's, the union rights, my friends already told me, but what we're interested in is that they're no longer able to get along with these salaries. In the last few weeks, there's been a debate between the AKP government's bureaucrats and ministers, you know, some of them on the brakes, some of them on the gas. As the budget figures are explained, new increases are inevitable. We argued here, we talked about the officers' unions before the labor unions, we talked about their raises. Where is he? He stayed at 4+4. So, do you know how much gas has gone up in one year from last year to today? So when you look at it yearly, in October, it's 49 percent, so even if you take 4+4 as an absolute number, it's 44, this is 49, 49 percent. So electricity increases, natural gas increases, 10 to 15 percent at a time. Unfortunately, the citizen is in trouble here. When they say fren-gas, our citizens drown in the gas. The important thing is, it's not the brake, it's the gas, it's the steering wheel.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0086par0038	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0085par0039	Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask that this steering wheel turn better and clear the gaps in the steering wheel, that employees, pensioners, pensioners get a salary that can reach the human level of living mentioned in these international contracts, and to contribute to making arrangements for providing it, all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0086par0041	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The Peace and Democracy Group is called Mud MP Demir Çelik. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0087par0045	Mr. President, I salute you with respect and love, my esteemed fellow lawmakers. I'd like to welcome you to my thoughts on the third chapter on the rule of collective relations in 197 rows, on behalf of our group. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are going through a process in which the world of today is increasingly taking advantage of new labor-axis changes, while it is unlikely to predict tomorrow without taking into account the work and effort of the world's changing dynamics. However, the proposed bill, public employees and labour unions, seems to be the kind of crazy shirt that is wanted to be dressed in the society by being brought to an end, especially from the basic dynamics of society, and despite them. We need to predict the spirit of change in the fundamental laws and laws of law that we have been suffering for over 30 years, while behind our existing laws, both the Constitution of September 1221, and behind Law 2822, the law and Law 2822, as well as its laws and laws of authoritarians, are required and required to apply them in this area, as well as in all areas. First of all, the process is supposed to be an approach based on the changing spirit of the world we are part of, which is based on the democratic and transformative spirit, but it shouldn't be the duty of this Assembly, with an application behind the Constitution of September 12th, to pass on the rights that have been won and denied. Under international institutions and organisations, especially ILO, the Republic of Turkey should also be undersigned, while the Republic of Turkey should also be on the basis of the relevant contracts, which ignore them, ignore them, and, in this respect, are unique, based on its own sensitivities, far from the approach and mentality of today. International liberal, egalitarian understandings are changing our country as quickly, as deeply as possible. However, we are faced with an approach that, in this way, should be a legal change based on a liberal and egalitarian understanding, which would completely bless the state and the state, that would be based on its sensitivities, that would nullify the freedoms of the individual, as well as of the individual. Mr. President, there are three basic criteria that must be guaranteed against the employer, whether he worked in public or in private businesses, whether he worked in the government, whether he worked in the government, or the worker, as well as the worker against the state: the most important of these criteria is the freedom to organize, the right to a collective contract, the right to strike. Without them, it is impossible to secure the rights of the state, which is sitting on a hierarchical relationship, and the rights of the worker against the boss and the employer, who are part of the sovereign system. But these legal changes, which are meant to be brought in, more than that, bring us a mindset, which is marketing as a reflection of neoliberal policies, subcontractorizing, and disintegrating labor and labouring individuals. There's a mindset that should have developed, distributed, removed the obstacles to the right to organise, and stopped the right to organize a person, that should have unionised him with the right to a collective contract and offered him some opportunities that led to the registration of his rights, depending on his organizational power, but unun unionised and unorganised majority thinking of making him face despair. It's not enough, by taking away the right to strike, the precision of the state, or the harm of the national fortune, or the concepts of national health and national security corrupting, which are uncertain, without purpose, but without purpose, and without a clear understanding of the right to strike, despite the fundamental right of the employee, which has taken away his right to strike, and left him helpless, vulnerable, not to impose the presence of the entity. In today's Turkey, a public field worker with more than $3,500, the poverty limit of a four-man family, and the rights of a public space worker and workers, in Turkey, today's minimum wage, is not in line with the norms of this modern world's democratic state, when it should be able to improve the existence of thousands, millions of people sentenced to minimum wage, and confront them with a freeer, more democratic environment, a business and a legislative environment. In the same way, we are faced with a law that has also been taken away from the rights of around 50 trade unions, which will be emptied within the existing, existing legislation, by ununioned nearly 6 million, 500 people, to be able to defend their own rights against the existing, existing employer and state in the street. The state, above all, must secure the individual with its rights. While it is necessary to do so, the workers, the workers, the workers, the workers, the people who are producing social enlightenment, social change, the people who are transforming, the people who have been exposed to a position that has been deprived of this wealth, deprived of it, deprived of the rights, exposed to the rights of our workers, while they are enriching the state by producing both hard labor and value by producing as much as they are of the state. As the Peace and Democracy Party, we, above all, view the right to organize and the right to a union and collective contract and the right to strike as our own combat axis, with the sanctity of labor, the awareness of this sacred value of labor. With that understanding, we will continue to be advocates of their existing rights struggle. Not only that, but we've decided to organize the process of partying of the People's Democratic Congress once again, the struggle of Turkey's people, its workers, its underdogs and its poor, its existing human, its moral rights, with all our labor components, its right to a collective contract strike. It is a mindset that wants to make the state and the state's head capable of everything, as well as the law, which has lost both law 2/B and forest quality in the urban transformation project. This mentality is not democratic, it is not libertarian, justice is far from dismantling equality; rather, it is totalitarian. And since it will bring authorityism back to the agenda of the peoples of Turkey, we think that the legal change is in the context and context of this law proposal, which can be addressed more seriously and respond to the needs of society.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0088par0057	Please, finish your words.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0087par0058	...to be brought back to the agenda of the House and to be in a framework, where we approach the problem under the thought democratic, egalitarian, liberal constitution, which is based on the rights and freedoms of the person, which, despite the state and the employer, guarantees him. Once again, I salute you all, saying that we will be involved in this kind of work.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0088par0060	Thank you, Mr. Steel. On behalf of the Republican People's Party group, Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüceler. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Supreme.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0089par0064	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Bill of Public Affairs Number 197. I salute your grand delegation and our citizens and workers who are waiting with hope on their screens. Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said: "All pleasure and happiness in life can only be achieved by working for the existence and honor of future generations." So I wanted to start my first talk in the year of the Third Legislature with these meaningful words of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. I hope and wish that during this legislature, all political parties and lawmakers in the House demonstrate a work and common sense that put our future and the future of our children and the future of our country ahead of their political parties and their own interests. Mine is hope and a wish, of course. The collective contract of employment is made between employees and employers to regulate social and economic rights and working conditions of working life; the signing of employees and employers to ensure work peace and security; and during which time it is valid, it provides calm at the workplace; of course, if the employer and employee sit at the collective contract table in a way that can negotiate freely and equally. It's the law that'll do it. The right to a collective agreement has been defined and secured for the first time in the Constitution of 1961. In 1980, Turkey was also the beginning of an antidemocratic period of political and social rights in terms of democracy. Unions Act 2821 issued in 1983 and Group Business Convention 2822, Strike and Lokavt Law took the place of the 274 and 275 laws adopted in 1963, and unfortunately the rights of workers continued exponentially. Today's law, which regulates collective working relations, has been changed from 1983 to today. So, the bill that we're discussing changes these two laws to the law of collective business relations. The agreed text, which was collected dozens of times between 2008 and 2011, was presented to the Council of Ministers in October 2011, and the Council of Ministers sent this text to Parliament in February. As the main commission, the Commission for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs and the Commission for Compliance of the European Union and the Justice Commission have been established. The Committee for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs, where I am a member, has heard the opinions and expectations of social parties. We've done our best as members of the Republican People's Party commissioners to draft a bill that provides more democratic labour-employment peace, therefore working peace. However, I must also point out that our motions on the single clauses have been rejected and that the evaluation of the European Union's Commission for Integration, which has been set up as a secondary commission, and that the assessment of the substances concerning the European Union's integration process, the AKP Power, the majority of its Party, are blocked by votes, and that this bill is a course free of purpose, good intentions, democracy. The lack of speech, non-violence of the opposition, the fact that opposition lawmakers have been imprisoned in prison for years without a decision, the absence of opposition media in congress halls, the expulsion of their jobs, is incompatible with democracy, but it is in line with your idea of advanced democracy. Even the one man-based, authoritarian, weakest, most hostile voice is presented to us as an advanced democracy, where today's dark and oppressive voice is tried to be bullied, crushed, oppressed. A system of exploitation where work is cheap but bread is expensive. This bill, which is more modern in the current working life, is designed to create a working life that matches the European Union and the ILO norms, is far away from these two goals, as well as the reform of 4+4+4, which was created in working life along with 12 September, where the oppressive, restrictive, restrictive legislation was protected; the work was reduced and labour organizations were tried to be destroyed, and the minister is presented to us as reform in working life, just as here -- 4+4+4. The goal here is to create economic wealth, to defend the worker's rights, to maintain the peace of work, to be liberated, or to be more qualified, not to be educated; the goal is to create a working world, a generation, that needs a kilo of evidence, a bag of coal, which is obedient, but not to speak. Therefore, to establish a system of exploitation, where labor is cheap but the bread is expensive, to create a garden of thornsless roses. It seems that the Republic People's Party, which apparently has not passed through the 12th of September law and understanding in this bill, is insurmountable, because it will not be able to do so, unless it's really paid on September 12th, it's being tortured spiritually and physically, not only when it has power, but can speak in the face of power and in difficult times, or the government that feeds from the darkness of September 12th will not be able to overcome it. Today, we face a political understanding that puts our nation to sleep with democracy, blinds our country to the media of allies in domestic politics, and brings our country to the brink of war in foreign policy. And you don't take it down on your tongue: superpower, big government. Look, you don't make a big state out of hot money, foreign debt, and business. The great government does not allow others to search for the body of its fallen soldiers on a plane that it cannot determine whether it was shot or not. Martyrs don't come from all over the great state every day. Big government executives don't steal battle tampons for the interests of other countries. The great state doesn't build public housing on a creek bed and sacrifice its citizens to the raging waters. The great state does not imprison its disciples, its children, its workers do not die every day in business accidents; it does not divide its citizens, it does not divide it. The great state is the one who loves its country, the one who loves its people first; the one who loves everyone, the one who loves every part; the one who brings peace and prosperity of its people, the peace of work; the one who creates economic wealth; the one who fights hunger and poverty. My great state can't say I'm great, that the workers always pay the price, that the martyrs always come to the poor's house. You don't make a great state of writing to billboards with words like that. The great government doesn't bill its wicked administration to its people, to its poorest. The state where work is cheap and bread is expensive is not a great state. Speaking of which, we're poor. We're superpowers. When it came to power, how much was the kitchen tube, and how much is it now? How much gas was it, how much is it now? You can't get in the way of the jury on exams. You've ruined our five-year-olds in schools. We've seen your advanced democracy, your hatred, your insufferability in your last congress. I say, "Don't take anything for granted." These people didn't vote for you to build a kingdom, to build a kingdom. The day will come when our people will pay your bill, just as you pay the poor, the price you pay the public with these raises. Dear lawmakers, the organisation of the weak to protect the rights of the people is a key sign of democratic action. But due to the poverty and non-organism of workers, unfortunately, the bill continues to establish a exploitation order. Cheap labour market employment is adopted as a basic development policy; industry is being strengthened by the cheapness of labor. Unional rights and freedoms, collective rights, strike rights, union organisation. Therefore, the lack of one of these, the lack of one, is a sign that none of this will ever happen. In this regard, it is an antidemocratic law. The law -- of course -- will continue our talks on the subject -- in general: This bill, which is constrained by the Union rights and freedoms, is not considered to be the same as the current suppressive, prohibitive mentality of September 12th law. So I don't think we should be expected to approve the bill in this way. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0090par0078	Thank you, Your Highness. In the name of the individuals, Heromarash MP Stakki Güvenç. Here you go, Mr. Truster.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0091par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the third chapter of Section 197 of the Common Business Relations Act, and I salute your grand delegation. Since the day we came to power as EC PARTY, in ten years, there have been very important arrangements for working life, as in all areas of collective life. A new situation has emerged in the union area, in the field of rights and freedoms, as the Constitutional amendment in 2010 lifted custody of all kinds of national wills. As part of the changes, the law that regulates collective business relations is inevitable to address with a more liberal attitude. Thus, a long-term law that promotes Turkish industrial relations, reflects the needs of the age, and also provides a radical solution to the problems of working life has become necessary. Members of parliament, the arrangement has taken into account the ILO contracts. This law was drafted by Turkey's view of membership in the European Union, the problems of working life, the aspects of its working life, listening to its opinions. Dear MPs, the right to collective agreements and free collective bargaining with trade union rights and freedoms is intended to be reorganised on the basis of the importance of labour, liberal and democratic society. The responses to universal norms of Turkish working life have been taken into account since long ago, along with these regulations. With this arrangement, the legal strike and lockout have been defined in parallel to the 2010 Constitutional Amendment and narrowed down the area of the ban on strikes. The strike and lockout bans are restricted to basic public services that are vital. With this law, the right to free bargaining with trade union rights and freedoms and the solution to collective business conflicts have been redacted, considering universal principles. Dear lawmakers, since the day we came to power as the EC PARTI, the laws, which have been a relief of social life, have been a result of a coup, have been changed one by one. Everyone talks, but the AK PARTY does business. This law, which is the remnant of the coup, will be replaced, hopefully with the power of the AK PARTY. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0092par0089	Thank you, Mr. Trust. On behalf of him, İstanbul MP Kadir Gökmen Öğüt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Öğümün.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0093par0093	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there will be a sequel to my speech last night. Now I'll try to tell you what's missing. See, the real problem with this bill is the entire law. In the current bill, the union is part of the organisation of workers and employers in working relations, where at least seven workers or at least seven employers come together to work on a business branch to protect and improve their common economic and social rights and interests. This definition does not apply to the concept of internationally accepted fucking syndika. 87. The second article of the contract, entitled employees and employers have the right to establish the institutions they want without permission without any distinction and to be a member only under the regulations of these organisations. It rules that all trade unions are obliged to be business-based organisations under the definition of the bill which is intended to be adopted. So even the definition of the union in the first place is far from international norms. 87. The organisations of the employees and employers have the right to regulate their regulations and internal regulations, to choose their representatives freely, to organise management and activities and to set business programmes. I'm asking the Minister, how can you argue that you're comparing the ILO norms to a bill involving an intervention in the internal affairs of the unions? The bill, which is also intended to be passed, only the workers and employers have the right to organise in trade unions. With this clause, pensioners, students, young people, household workers, apprentices, interns are ignored, union rights are rejected. In other words, no union is allowed except the labour union. Another important problem is the state intervention in the management of the unions. The bill maintains the same sentence on the end of union directors' duties if they are elected. Union administrators are expected to cease their duties if they are elected mayor or MP. However, the right to make such a decision should belong to the union alone, and international standards show it. The ILO Committee of Experts must ensure that the decision to suspend and terminate its position in the event of a union manager running for local or general elections is incumbent on the relevant union. Let's give another example of how unions want to be pressured. The current law rules that the financial and administrative control of trade unions should be carried out by the Union Control Board or its auditors. The bill maintains the current arrangement, but envisions that the unions be audited by sworn financial advisors every two years at the latest. Predicting external and mandatory supervision by law means interference by public authorities. This is a violation of the ILO Convention 87. Let's look at another pressing item of the bill. The 17th and 19th Articles on the winning and ending of membership -- the provision of the union -- predicting that the notary requirement for notarisation and resignation should be lifted but instead adopted as an e-state, which means that the government changes shape in membership and resignation of the union. In addition, the ILO (ILO) who criticised the issue noted: Officials have noted that everyone, including the employer, has access to information, which is available. It points out that it is contrary to the contract, that it may cause the worker to be subjected to anti-union activities. This new situation means that nearly 4 million unregistered workers will not be able to join the union, and that the worker who entered the ministry through the e-state door to become a member of the union can become a member of the trade unions that the system has set up, not by his will, but by its own. My fellow lawmakers, the subcontractor system, one of the most serious problems of our country, and the workers working under unsecured conditions in this system, are standing before us again. There is no countermeasure in the bill. The shortages in the provision of subcontractors to benefit from collective business contracts and accession to trade unions have led to increased business accidents and worsening the environment, which is already bad enough for business health and safety. The union of subcontractors is growing stronger because of their annual renewed contracts, and job security is dwindling. The annual notices imposed on the workers force them to sign that they have nothing to gain from the past year, or they will not hire it for the new year. I repeat my proposal to establish a tip line at the Ministry for situations like this.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0094par0105	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0093par0107	This bill -- as I said in the beginning -- is a bill based entirely on misleading the public, not defending the working class, as in the September 12th referendum. Since we know well what we will face if the bill is passed as it is, we, the CHP, call it no. My dear friends, the practice of Turkish Airlines in the past few months, the practice of ununion, is still in the public eye. You said you banned the strike in Turkish Airlines for economic reasons, but in Bosnia, Mr. Gunner buried 19.2m euros in Bosnian Airlines. We have $50 million in Iran, it's not clear what it is, but you've got 305 workers out there, you've put a strike ban on them. And that's what history will write in your house. I've just lifted the laws of September 12th, and I say to my friend who says, "Let the ban of this Turkish Airlines strike be a gift." I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0095par0112	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Minister of Labour and Social Security Faruk Çelik. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0116	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, we have arrived at the final chapter of a very important bill. First of all, I'd like it to be a blessing once again. The bill is a bill that workers and employers expect to be passed as soon as possible. It's a very important arrangement that is required of our Ministry to request 1,717 collective contracts -- approximately 400,000 workers -- concerning the collective contract waiting for a collective contract. Hopefully, today, with your support, it will be legalized here. And I'd like to thank the socialists. We've been through a lot. Maybe the last 15 days, the day we didn't get together, the day we didn't. There have often been changes in motions, changes in perspective, but I thank you very much for our non-communicational, non-communicational relationships. Did everything work out or did it work out? We don't have the opportunity to say that either. We've also seen the fact that the evening we talked about has changed in the morning, and the evening we agreed on, it's being moved again in a different direction. Now, this law needs to be discussed in two ways: One, when we look at the law under the terms of the ILO contracts, we see that contracts 87 and 98 are largely met. However, you can appreciate that every country has its own conditions, which should be considered, should be considered. In addition, you all appreciate that an arrangement that you can make regardless of the social aspects or their views on this matter will not be healthy. For example, the reset of the dam, the zero dam, the demand that the dam be zero in the line of work, but when you come together at the main table, when you sit down, it's important to have a harmony, a compromise. As many of our unions have demanded a 1 per cent threshold, 2 per cent dam, there have been 5 per cent dams and 3 per cent dams from our employers. Besides, there have been some of our unions who have advocated zero dams, zero dams in the line of work. Now, our friends say, "Sir, this is a separate line of work." You are the government, take it out, and say: "We have hanged my staff and cut it. We have no such method, but when you do so, you will face another criticism. Then you're taking a reckless, disregardful approach to social dialogue. We're going to face a situation like this. In addition, the subject of professional and business-based union organisation also came up in our discussions, for example. Since our organisation was business-based, this was not valid for our country, even though it had a recommendation from ILO (ILO) or a decree from the agreements. There are norms and standards on the issue of the union security of all workers, but we have all seen this in Article 25, which we, as Turkey, are able to provide in part. So they're telling us that there's no union or job security in businesses under 30 workers, that when we sit down with social parties and unions and talk about it, it's a constitutional right, and it's going to move to justice, and we respect that. I mean, I wish there was a consensus on this, if universal standards were based on it, but if the parties don't come to an agreement on this...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0097par0122	You're the one who didn't bring it, Mr. Secretary. You're the one who broke it.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0123	...which employers object to, and the workers object. Not only is it indexed to this clause, but we were able to find a way out together on this clause, which the employer insisted on, while making arrangements in favor of the worker in another article, in favour of the worker. And that's what I want to say here. I told you last time at the meeting, and I told you again from this stand that I don't think it's right for these things to be so deeply personalized because we're trying to do business, we're trying to solve problems. Turkey has not been able to radically change the law from 1982 to this side. No governments have come, no governments have passed, but this law has not been changed. Today, for the first time, it's been cleaned up. Sir, this is not a four-four. We never said it was a four-four.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0098par0126	You're the one who didn't change it. Why do you involve others?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0127	And look, there's no such thing as four-quarters. I'm going to say this once again: if there's an arrangement that all unions agree on, workers, employers' unions agree on, let's get it out.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0098par0129	There's you, there's September 12th, and there's you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0130	If there's such a possibility, we don't run away from it, but there's no way to make it happen.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0098par0131	There's September 12th, and there's Faruk Steel.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0132	Sir, this law you've brought back, this arrangement you've brought back. If this arrangement is taking back, then you care more about its existence, then we'll continue its existence, so we'll publish the 2009 statistics, there won't be anything left in Turkey. Is that even possible? So I'm going to rephrase here that I don't think this is the right approach to defending the 2009 statistics.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0098par0133	No one's defending it, no one's defending 10 percent in the world.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0134	Now, look, 10 percent is history. There are three percent general dams in Article 41, but this...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0098par0135	You can't take care of 1 percent.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0136	We have a particularly important arrangement here. See, problem, trust problem. In our industrial relations, I believe that the arrangement between the workers and the employer will be a very positive, positive period after this law is adopted. And if he has the remaining approaches between our unions and our employers of the 20th century, they will also be eliminated, so the conflicting understanding will disappear altogether, and this law in our industrial relations will serve peace, and I believe that in the conclusion of this peace, in three years from now, we will enter a process where the dam will not be discussed much. I want to say that this law will contribute to the creation of a most important environment of trust. We have another system, of course, as the Ministry, and I would like to state here that the unions, rather than the integrity of the law in all these events, are more beautiful than the collective contribution of the law, the locality of the unions, the self-evaluation has exhausted us, and it's taken us a lot of time, and I hope they'll excuse me to do it from here. Another topic has often been referred to here: sir, this is the boss-employee distinction. Dear friends, nowhere in the world is that approach anymore. What group do I ask now: Are you against the SMEs, or are you against the businessmen, or against the business world? Is that even possible? We have the business, we have the COBIs, we have the workers, we have the workers; there is no SME without workers, there is no SME without workers, so I think the time of separate evaluation is long gone. Together, within their rights...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0099par0139	You don't deserve it, Mr. Secretary. You don't deserve it. I'll understand if you agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0140	I'd like to state here that you're in the process of handling these things. Dear friends, many important issues have been discussed here. Oh, and let me put it this way: there's no union we can't face, there's no political party we can't face, there's no political party we can't face... we took everything in a transparent way, we took it in a clear way.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0100par0143	You'll face us, too.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0144	Everyone is allied with the fact that the law must be passed in good faith, and the workers -- that there is no other option, that this law must be passed, but you can appreciate the details, that it is very difficult to bring the two sides together. Now, the other day, I said, "Look, the number of the law and the workforce goes down from 28 to 20. Workforce detection cases are no longer a cause for waiting. This is an extremely important arrangement. As a result of the objection to the labour-force dams: wait until two years pass, three years pass, and the court decides that he will become a business official, the union, and then he can come to work, and we've eliminated that. I believe it would be wrong to underestimate it, to ignore it. We've made it easier for the union to form. We've given the 15-year-olds the right to join the union. In the same line of work, we've provided access to several trade unions, working for multiple employers.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0101par0148	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0096par0149	Also, in the second chapter, I think we're bringing in very important arrangements, and I think that in public, with his employee, with his employer, all the sections... because we don't have enough time, I can't express it, this bill contains very important regulations. And I want to thank you for your contribution from now on. I salute you with respect, with love, with the thought that this law will contribute substantially to our working life, to the peace of work.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0101par0152	Thank you, Mr. Steel. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask you...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0102par0154	Mr. President, last word.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0101par0155	Here you go, young man.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0102par0156	Mr. President, we're negotiating a law that really concerns working life. Now, the fundamental principle of this law is that we are not reinventing the world, according to the 90th article of our Constitution, international agreements are above the law. So the international institutions that we belong to, the ILO contracts, have fundamental provisions on this issue. Now by pushing these fundamental provisions aside, I think it's a great injustice to both workers and employees, especially Turkey, to make a collective contract law, to make a union law. Now, the AKP government has something, they have no respect for work -- as in the past -- they have no attitude towards labour. All their goals are being arranged by the employer to cut off their bread by the employer, where they are working hard, earning hard, living hard, living hard, having to support their families, having to extend their hand of compassion for those in need. This is already their basic philosophy, and we've been here before -- we've been here before -- we've spoken about it. A citizen calls me today, and there's a number of roads in Elazıg, Tunceli, Bingol, and some of their road operations are being subcontracted with his employees, and he says that last year the workers working at Bingöl, and in this road operation in Tucson, were getting $5 million, and the fuel was around 10 million, and now they're bidding 15 million, and they're giving 60 million in subcontractors. So anyway, friends, in every activity, in every activity that the AKP is involved in, they say, what is our interest here first? Look, on the fast train, on the fast train... the railroads have two travers factories, they don't run this travers factory, they built the travers factory in Recep Erdogan's in-laws, they bought a traverse for 130-odd trillion lira traverses, and most of them, is it appropriate, or isn't it not? Now, I mean, this AKP has a philosophy: for them, it doesn't matter if our purse is full and the country is gone. The country doesn't matter. What's the point of the country? It's all about the money, everything... and the money that's at stake, it's all about the details. In that way, they grow up in such a mindset. Look, look at their own ministers, one's brother or a few others' brother is the governor, the general manager, the undersecretary. Next thing you know, a guy who used to be a blacksmith is now a conglomerate boss. I was gonna bring in the papers and show them here anyway. Gee, how come you were a blacksmith yesterday, and today you're the conglomerate boss, and you're giving full page to the newspapers in Burma? I don't know what construction... It's all well-known, but, you know, you got to have a conscience, you got to think about it. It's important to think about the work of these people. So what do you gain here by putting the worker in a difficult position, by exploiting his labor, by enriching a few bosses with that exploiting effort? And that is not the way people who are afraid of God behave. So now, unfortunately, your philosophy is clear, your side is clear. Your side is for the rich, and your side is for the workers. Crushing labor, pooring labor, that's the policy you follow in Turkey. You're trying to create a crowd of people who don't work, who don't do it, who don't do it, who don't do it, who don't do it, who don't do it, and all your practices are like that. That's how you behave, how you practice, how you invest. I believe that this law will not do any good to the worker, but it does bring a number of provisions that allow the worker to be crushed, and because I think it has destroyed the collective contract in terms of workers, it will do more harm than good to the worker, which, of course, is the law that suits the AKP. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0103par0165	Thank you, Mr. Young. Now, let's move on to the QA, Mr. Deputys. Question-answer in 15 minutes. I'm going to give our members of law enforcement a minute into the system, and then the Minister will take the right to answer. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0104par0168	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, I was at Suruç yesterday. For three or four days, the people have been rioting in Suruç, and people are involved in the discovery of about 4,000 people who have appealed to this ISKUR, especially their rich children, the children of the landowners, Mercedes, and those who are in the army, and that list has been identified by AKP Suruç County President, taking their allies, their relatives. I'm warning you as a congressman, and I'm calling it in. Are you going to go through with this, or are you going through with this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0105par0171	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0106par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, when I was discussing a proposal yesterday, I told you about a situation in the Cırklareli, where at the center, at a factory called Sugar Textil, 374 workers were unemployed. I'd like to ask you again in front of you, and I'd be happy if you'd answer: Is it so easy for employers to take advantage of such legislation when they're victims of so many workers? So all of a sudden, I'm going to disappear, you guys take care of yourselves, I'll build a new factory, I'll start a new company, all my machines are already from this company, and you can't afford to collect your money, come on. Is there an environment in Turkey that can call it business? So the Ministry isn't taking precautions? First, I want to learn from you. I also stated yesterday that when they try to seek their rights legally, the workers -- this concerns all the workers -- must invest $470 in the amendment to the law when they appeal to the court. So are you going to make a recommendation to the Council of Ministers on this matter? Is this the kind of work you're planning to do to get rid of the already oppressed workers, the people who already don't get their rights?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0107par0176	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0108par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. The Justice and Development Party's justice does not apply to contracted personnel, Mr. Secretary. Some of the contracted personnel were recruited, but this process was not run for chartered personnel in private administrations and municipalities. What's wrong with chartered staff in municipalities and county private administrations that they're not being recruited? When will these friends be given the opportunity to work on staff? There's also public personnel sent to various institutions after the privatisation. These friends are very distressed, trying to get jobs done regardless of their educational situation and previous duties, at least to be given jobs that are appropriate to their education. Are you going to do a study on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0109par0182	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0110par0184	Thank you. Sir, I'd like to know that a new system is coming in on these highways, a large part of the road work is being taken from the General Directorate of Highways, given to subcontractors, and the workers who work here are being transferred to subcontractors, and very new machines are being transferred to these contractors. Is that once true? Why was this needed? Second, in this matter of temporary workers, workers from really 4/C (C) and workers from the privatized CİSCE are in a very difficult position. Is the government planning to make any arrangements to improve the condition of these workers or not? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0111par0188	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0112par0190	Mr. Secretary, Malatya has 5 of the State Railways. 796 workers are temporarily employed at the Regional Directorate. Some are employed for 40 days a year and others for about five months. It's the season and the moon. One day you'll be out of your job in five days. People get laid off, and they don't get a chance to work in the field in their spare time because they don't know when they're going to be working, or do anything else, and they're used to it. He's doing very important work in a very important institution like the State Railways, these temps. Now, as long as these people don't work, they're also banned from being sick because their insurance isn't deposited, they're banned from taking drugs, and their children don't have a chance to read. In this regard, there must be a conscientious responsibility for everyone to make arrangements for workers working on the State Railways. We'd like you to work on this...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0111par0192	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Cetin...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0113par0194	Mr. Minister, those who drafted laws 2821 and 2822 said they were preparing Turkey for the purpose of making it a cheap labor area. Now, after these laws were passed in '83, there's no difference between the understanding of democracy that people are trying to block the bill that you presented as the first government, saying that labor costs will grow, that workers will become stronger. Now, we know that -- in your speech -- you've just said -- you're bringing up the compromise of the parties, but there are seven ministers in the government, one who won't sign your bill, and one who won't -- who are these ministers, and why do you avoid public disclosure? So why do you avoid explaining the ministers who agree with the coup regime on September 12th and the rights of workers? Explain.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0111par0195	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. Your Highness...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0114par0197	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my district, Tekirdağ Velimesh, has been laid off before 18 workers' compensations were paid for their membership in the Press-Business Union while working in the Organised Industry District. There is pressure on workers working in factories in almost every part of Turkey due to union organisation. Do you plan to arrange for criminal sanctions on the employer in order to prevent dismissals because he used the right to be a union organisation? Some ministries, such as the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of National Education, have been forced to switch unions through workers, employers and bureaucrats, who are being threatened, or heard that bureaucrats are on the side of inter-union competition are very seriously reaching us. According to Article 118 of the Turkish Penal Code, there are criminal sanctions. Has your ministry made an arrangement in this law regarding such threats, union constraints, or what measures do your ministry consider to take in order to protect the rights of the worker regarding these situations in public? Gene, the workers who work in the factories in Tekirdağ, which have been shut down due to bankruptcy, have been justified by the court...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0115par0202	Thank you, Your Highness. Finally, Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0116par0204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, two days ago, people like architects, engineers, veterinary physicians who worked in different cities, about 20 provinces, municipalities and private administrations. These employees have stated that they are visa workers, that those in contract positions will be transferred to the government office under a bill you have drafted, but that these technical staffs who have been working in municipalities for 15 years, working in private administrations for 16 years, have not been organized in this bill, unfortunately. They had demands of you, but they couldn't contact you, as far as I know. Do you plan to put the technical staff in charge of this bill, along with the chartered staff in municipalities and private administrations, in any way? Can you cover this?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0115par0206	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0117par0208	Thank you, Mr. President. Nurettin Bey's question about Suruç was raised earlier and again several days ago by a fellow MP as a verbal question. We received such a complaint from Ceylanpınar, not Suruç alone. There are also complaints from some parts of the country. Let me put it this way: immediately, immediately, we have sent inspectors to the surrounding counties and residential areas, to our provinces. I would also like to inform you of its outcome... whether it's Suruç, Ceylanpınar, or any of our districts, among our citizens here, nine months, in the framework of community benefit, to consider a distinction between our people, see, not to do, but to even think about it is extremely absurd. If there's a mistake, if there's a nepotism, if there's a political hand, I'm making it clear here that we're going to share it with you and we're going to sort it out. The other issue was closed or closed on October 8th, the factory, which was referred to as "Sugar Textile" in Centipede. According to 335 employees, 219 employees have applied for unemployment allowance, which are still being investigated by the City Department. It will likely be a positive outcome, given the integrity of the issue, so there will be no problem with unemployment allowance. Neither employees nor employers have any demand in the framework of the fee guarantee fund or the short work grant. Regarding these issues, the private sector shuts down its business, sells its machine, evacuates its machine, and what we need to do, as the Department of Labor, is to make the necessary assessments and make the effort to get the workers to benefit from the legal rights here. And, of course, the workers have the right to fight in the judiciary. And the application for the trial is very important, so thank you for bringing this up. In this way, for those in need and those who cannot afford this tuition, Article 334 of the Law Law provides legal assistance, but also...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0118par0213	They all need it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0119par0214	Excuse me. Besides, when you brought this up yesterday, I instructed my friends, from the unemployment fund, to this situation, because that money is actually the money of our workers. We're technically continuing this work to see if there's an adjustment to that frame. I hope we get results soon. In general, are you considering a new staff regime, as well as a contracted staff or a staff regime, so do you have any new thoughts on this arrangement? We have a new staff regime. Our work on this has been going on for a long time. I hope that Turkey will have a new staff regime before the end of this legislature. Indeed, you see, as technical personnel, we have technical staff working as temporary workers, working as workers, working as workers, 4/Cbookers, 4/B (a) people, 4/A) people, many employees and staff working in the status quo that we can categorize as contractors. There's an arrangement in this framework, and as a government, we're on top of it. You said we had 200,000 contractors on staff, that's right. If it's about temporary seasonal workers... we know they're insured, especially if you say they work in public. The status of these is referred to as temporary workers, or the temporary workers. The need for a new staff regime to rehabilitate or design this entire system is evident. The ministers who did not sign the 2821-2822 said Mr. Cetin. Now, if there were any ministers who wouldn't sign this bill, we wouldn't discuss it here. This isn't an offer. We're negotiating as a bill.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0120par0219	I asked about your first bill, Minister. I'll count...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0121par0220	So now that you've come to see this bill, it's clear there's no such problem.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0120par0221	Mr. Secretary, it doesn't suit you. You're the first, you're the fifth of a thousand...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0121par0222	There is no first draft, the bill came to the Council of Ministers, from the Council of Ministers to the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0120par0223	You pulled back. Then who were the ministers who didn't sign?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0121par0224	We didn't withdraw it, sir, you have the wrong information. The bill came to the Council of Ministers, from the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Oh, if you're saying it's true: the bill was discussed, assessed in the Council of Ministers, and the bill came to the Supreme Assembly with the approval of the Council of Ministers. Otherwise, ministers, it's not the right approach, like ministers who don't sign.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0120par0225	I'll answer in a moment.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0121par0226	Sir, Mr. Young here has just spoken so... yet again, he has continued to accuse the Council of Ministers, our Prime Minister. Mr. Young continues to make speeches that will condemn everyone. Instead, you take them out, you say them here, you reveal their document, their knowledge. It's not hurtful to have a conversation like this, but if you talk like this in random conversations, everyone will return this conversation to you, and I'll do the same.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0122par0227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0123par0228	Mr. President, we're in the middle of a conversation we're having here. For example, they've tasted the travers factory, the railways, they've built the travers factory in the in-law of Recep Bey, they've bought 135 trillion lira travers. We've told them so many times, they're not responding to us.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0124par0229	We don't appreciate what you're saying, to answer. It's not valuable to us, so we don't answer.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0123par0230	So, Faruk Bey's brother was a blacksmith in Burma, and now he owns a large conglomerate. So we don't know about this? What's more...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit02spe0125par0231	Congressmans, the talks on chapter three are complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0125par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue the talks of Bill 197. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. The third chapter begins with Article 61. There are two motions on Article 61: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 61st of the Common Business Relations Act in the United States. We propose and propose that the article (1) and (4) be changed in the following way. (1) On the day the strike decision was announced at work, a strike vote will be held within six workdays, starting with at least one third of the workers' application for the office's office within the time of the announcement. (4) The request for a strike vote in conflict over the establishment of the Business Community Business Convention is made to the office of the centre of the business. The results of the strike vote in each workplace are collected at the office of the business centre, where the collective results are determined within the scope of the 3rd joke provisions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 197 rankings are 61 on the strike vote of the Law on Total Business Relations Act. Article 3. 2 of his joke. In his sentence, four, five, and six. We offer and propose that his jokes be removed from the article text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0126par0016	Sir, we disagree. No. When the strike vote comes out, the unions make the decision to go to the arbitration committee. The motion not to go to the panel of judges, then who will make the contract? The contract stays in the middle. That's why we can't join.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0125par0017	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0127par0018	Motive...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0125par0019	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The purpose of the law is not to ensure that the worker apply to the employer's office for a strike vote. With our proposal, the strike vote would prevent the collective bargaining powers of labour unions from being reduced. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 61st of the Common Business Relations Act in the United States. We propose and propose that the article (1) and (4) be changed in the following way. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends (1) On the day the strike decision was announced at work, a strike vote will be held within six workdays, starting with at least one third of the workers' application for the office's office within the time of the announcement. (4) The request for a strike vote in conflict over the establishment of the Business Community Business Convention is made to the office of the centre of the business. The results of the strike vote in each workplace are collected at the office of the business centre, where the collective results are determined within the scope of the 3rd joke provisions. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0128par0031	Mr. President, we would like to vote on a strike with one-fourth of the strike, fewer workers. Mr. Çelebi and his friends say we should vote on a strike with more workers. We don't think it's appropriate, we think it's against the worker. That's why we don't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0125par0032	Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0129par0033	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. We've just listened to our Minister of Labor here, and while we're listening, I'm particularly stressing that we're in favor of social dialogue, and we're not in any position or behavior to disrupt social dialogue, and we do what comes out of social dialogue. Mr. Secretary, what you call a social dialogue is a negotiation between the employer and the workers, but you generally perceive this negotiation as: while our trade unions are supposed to be the Union of Turkish Employers Unions, from time to time, the Union of Turkish Employers' Unions TİSK is also being shut down, you are only taking into custody with the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, and you are organizing a working life like this under their pressure. However, beyond such an agreement, you need to take into account the contracts 87, 98, and 151 of the International Labour Organization ILO, the acquish of the European Union and the European Social Condition. In accordance with these directives, you must draft the bill and bring it to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the event of a dispute between the parties, the 90th article of the Constitution is very clear and clear. In such a dispute, you apply the 90th Amendment of the Constitution, and you pass it, and you insist and stubbornly say that you should bring a law proposal here, while we are waiting for the agreement of the social parties. Is it necessary? Do unions have to negotiate with the Union of Turkey's Chambers and Stock Exchanges? Do unions have to deal with TUSKON? It's not. It is the 90th article of our international contracts and agreements and Constitution, which must be implemented here, but you insist and stubbornly say, "We are in favor of social dialogue." And here you are fulfilling the demands and demands of workers, unions, not demands, but the demands and demands of employers and capital circles. Dear friends, the law -- the third chapter and the last chapter -- has been enforced for thirty years, and if it ends here today -- workers, workers, workers have been fighting for the change of the law for 30 years. The 2821 and 2822 adopted in 1983 were also implemented by the AKP government for the last ten years. Now, a change is brought here under the name of reform, but it's not a reform, it's a bundle, and it's covered in patches. Now, it is not acceptable for such a September 12th product, the Law, to be transferred here with these patches, and we do not find it right. This is not the way this Law has been implemented for thirty years, but it should be the result of the arrangements brought by unions, workers, workers, workers and international contracts, but unfortunately the old bowl is still being spent in the old form of a bath, where workers, workers, workers, and workers will have no interest or benefits, and in the days to come, the unions will suffer a great deal. I have the referendum book you issued on September 12, 2010. That's exactly what you're saying in this reform brochure. In 40 articles, you say that if you say yes, there will be democratisation in Turkey. If you look at Article 28 of this, Article 28 of this article will remove all obstacles in the way of the bans on Grev. But in the talks held here yesterday and today, you see here again that the bans on strikes have been increasing since last week. On September 12, 2010, you deceived people. Democracy will come in Turkey, trade unions, democracy will be freer in the future. You said, "You got 58 per cent of the votes, but you're going back to the old way." That's not true, guys. This needs to be replaced, and in this motion that we've submitted, we also say that if there is a business centre in Ankara, if there is one in İstanbul, there is one in Adana, if there is one in Adana, if there is one in Ankara, the centre of the strike vote will be in Ankara, Ankara will need to be made, and it needs to be distributed to other businesses from the places where there is a general manager. Because the strike vote is expensive and demanding, and therefore the centre of this must be in Ankara, or the company's headquarters in the holding company, Istanbul. We don't think it's right, it's wrong. At this point where we are now, with this arrangement, the workers, workers, unions will be the finders at home when they go to Dimyat. This is not a right arrangement, this is wrong. The bans of September 12 have continued in the same way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And you'll see in 2016, in 2017, Turkey will become a union dump. The Minister is responsible, and I say the honorable MPs are responsible for this, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0130par0043	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 61st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 61st article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 62: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 62nd edition of the 197 Common Business Relations Bill on Strikes and Lokavt Prohibitions. We propose and propose that the terms mentioned in the article be removed from the text of the substance. The 62nd Amendment. The article states that the declaration of the Banking Service is to be removed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 62 of the Common Business Relations Bill of 197, which is currently in session, shall be changed as follows by Article (1), and the article (3) be removed from the text of the article. (1) There is no strike and lockout at funerals and burials, as well as in graveyards and hospital emergency rooms. Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0131par0057	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0130par0058	Who's going to talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0132par0059	I'm Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0130par0060	Mr. Çelebi, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0132par0061	Mr. President, my dear friends, they either don't understand what we're saying or they don't. Again, Mr. Secretary is doing everything in his power to twist the subject, and I'm sorry. I've been watching with this example that I've known for years in the DİSK, in the union struggle, in the past ministry, where we've been together, and I've seen a difference between the face and the face that I met that day, and that's why I'm sad. I mean, it's like we're telling the old law to stay, no matter how good the old one is, Mr. Secretary, but don't make a presentation like you're making good changes by making us use the old one. The arrangements here, I'm going to say this once again, with all my experience as a unionist, are behind the law passed by the 12th of September generals. Take it that way, let's look at it from there, why is it behind him? In the 25th Amendment, you have returned the rights granted by the generals of September 12th, and you still say: "We are in the future." Don't do it. You're bringing in the strike bans, and you're still saying, "We're on the road." How is that progressive? How can I change the age? What kind of understanding do you offer this as reform in this law and sell it to this nation? I'm having a hard time understanding that. Earlier, Mr. Izzet Cetin told me in yesterday's speech: most of the banking sector is already without unions, and you're bringing strike bans to those who exist, and you're expanding this strike ban. At least in some emergencies, we understood in health, in the fire department, but in the service sector, in the service industry, where there's service purchases, is there a ban on energy strikes? We understand about electricity, but they're all being given a comprehensive strike ban again, which is being presented as reform. He's been brought in in the Air-Business Corps before, and now he hasn't changed, despite our insistence on banking. To call it forward, we have come from September 12th to a good point. Look, we've taken this task force off-limits before. If you say so, I understand, but there's no such thing. The curfews brought by September 12th continue, the curfews that you lifted from the Constitution continue, and you regulate them by law. Now, the judiciary is looking at this, dear friends: the Constitution is not looking at the law, it's looking at the law, it's very clear, so let's know. Despite the amendments to the Constitution, despite the change in Article 90 of the Constitution, the court's decision, despite international contracts, applies to what is written in this law. If there was a judgment that looked out for them, we wouldn't be talking here anyway. The Retirement Union wouldn't be closed, the Youth Union wouldn't be closed if there was such a trial, the Union would not be closed, the union that judges are setting up now would not be closed, the Farmer's Union would not be closed. So you are seriously misleading this community, the workers, the workers, in this area. The strike bans go on, you make it heavier, that's what we're saying from here. What's so good about that? Of course, 10 percent is bad, but you're making it worse. We're saying that the unions that have gone over 10 percent of the threshold before, with the arrangement you're going to bring in now, most of them will not have the right to a collective contract of employment, which we claim from here. A year from now, two years from now, it's gonna be a union dump, and we call it Turkey, and you don't believe it. Do we have to find out after we live? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it necessary to say that after these unions have been destroyed, yes, we've been wrong? I regret it, I think you've had enough of this, but I don't understand your intentional defense as if this law was a good law. At least say: "This is what I do in the name of the TOBB, on behalf of the employers. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0133par0069	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. The 62nd Amendment. The article states that the declaration of the Banking Service is to be removed. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0134par0078	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0133par0079	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0135par0081	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, it's a very important law in the Minister's statement. So we're changing a law that can't be changed in the field of unionism. But we need to question which direction we changed it when we switched it. Are we changing freedoms towards the ILO norms that develop union freedoms, or are we changing them by strengthening the principles of a revolutionary administration, as expressed by the previous speaker? Dear friends, we must be sincere. What are the challenges that can't be explained to us at this point? We really want to know. What reasons prevent you from doing what needs to be done about it, and what binds your hands? Mr. Secretary, our dear congressman friends, so if we're going to establish a law that defines union freedoms or union freedoms, then the right course of action must be an act that lifts the restrictions in front of them. Well, now, it's hard not to be terrified when you read Article 62, which describes the bans on strikes and lockouts. In what field will this worker strike, Minister? Which area stays, for God's sake? So you're waiting for a strike at farm workers, and you kept him out? I read: "There is no strike and lockdown in public transport services and hospitals, which begin from nafta or natural gas through city network water, electricity, gas production, oil production, liquidation and distribution; banking services; the Ministry of National Defence and Gendarme General Command and Coast Guard Command directly run in businesses in the area of the city's public affairs and in public transport services and hospitals. What field is left? Please! Now, I've offered the most reasonable one of them, Mr. Secretary, so that we can remove the ban on strikes and lockouts in those bank services from this law. Mr. Secretary says I don't agree. So the step forward in democracies is the step that lifts the restrictions in front of freedoms. Which of the bans have you lifted from the 1982 revolutionary administration? Besides, you've decided last year that the Air-Work Union can't strike in the air business. I mean, what obligation do you have, Mr. Secretary? Who's forcing you? Is there a revolution on your head? I want to believe in your personality or the power of your government, the power that our nation has given you, the power that it has given to your power, the personality and the personality to resist such pressures. Now, banking is necessary, it's important, but do we have the right to ignore the misery of my brother, the people who work here? Dear lawmakers, there's a very general saying that without freedom, property and personality, we can't create an advanced society. The property of the estate is a collective contract of employment, union rights, right to strike. If you remove the right to strike before labor, restrict the freedom of collective contract of employment, you interfere with its ownership, interfere with its freedom, and expect that worker to be a person, to make it willingly? Mr. Secretary, I don't want to admit that we respect your personality, your service, but please respect our concern. Look, you're saying: "We've been compromised, we've come to an agreement." What is this article that this Turk-Ismail sent to lawmakers on October 17th, after the announcement that the Turkish trade union -- which I believe is the largest union even today -- was reflected in the newspapers? There are very obvious allegations here, allegations. These will remain unanswered, and you will stand here and agree with the parties, and that's how we brought up the law. If you call them that, you will mock our minds, Mr. Minister. I'm sorry, I can't make that up to you and I can't make it up to you. The claims of the Turkish-Busker here must be answered. If you're not answering the question I just asked you: who are you, who's putting you under pressure, and who's trying to convince us that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that it's beneath you, that you're trying to convince us of something that's beneath your power? I hope you'll explain this, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0136par0090	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It is the 62nd edition of the 197 Common Business Relations Bill on Strikes and Lokavt Prohibitions. We propose and propose that the terms mentioned in the article be removed from the text of the substance. Pervin Buldan (Ing) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0137par0099	Mr. President, the strike ban has been narrowed down in this arrangement. I don't understand how friends don't see it. First of all, they used a phrase like Mr. Shandır to mock us, not at all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0138par0101	So the 82 applications continue, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0137par0102	Is that even possible? We will not be rude to the High Council, nor to a worthy MP, nor to a group like this, even if it is a passion.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0138par0103	It doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0137par0104	And if that happens, we'll do our part. I want to express it, one. Two hours ago, I was with the Turkish-Business administration, and I've told you over and over again, this law is such a difficult law that perhaps the most difficult law we've ever made is because it's really hard to get sides to a point.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0139par0106	No, not at all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0140par0107	You're the one making it difficult.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0139par0108	You're the one making it difficult.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0141par0109	There are one or two issues that the Turkish-Buskers object to: he insists on the founding of a trade union, and his assessment of the 25th article. Other than that, we've just agreed. I'm talking about two hours ago, and I say, every day...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0142par0110	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0141par0111	Sir, every union sends letters. And when I'm sitting here, there's writing in front of me. When we sit together, the evaluations are different, the individual union assessments are different when they're alone. I want to express it.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0143par0112	Mr. Secretary, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0141par0113	We can't agree with the motion, Mr. President, but let me put it this way: the scope has been narrowed down, so the notary... can now strike.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0144par0114	How was my coverage narrowed down, Mr. Secretary? Air force, this, remember, has come back more than September 12th.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0141par0115	It can be done in educational institutions, vaccinated, in serums. So in many ways, look, the strike ban has been lifted. That's all I've got.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0145par0116	You're bringing it in in the financial sector.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0146par0117	Why don't you remove the strike ban in these bank services, Mr. Minister? Why don't you lift the strike ban in the service line? I don't understand this. You don't want the man to have a fight about his service?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0141par0118	We can't agree. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0147par0120	Mr. Gür, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0148par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, Mr. Minister, this fight will continue, you can be sure of that because we are discussing a law that concerns the future of workers, workers, workers, and Turkey, as well as an important social and class base. Your claim is that this law is made by agreeing with social parties. Social parties are sitting here, watching us. As Mr. Hatibin said, here are the ads in the sheets and sheets, expressing their discomfort with this law. But we are talking about a community, workers, where the law will be directly influenced, not just by their lives, but by their organization, rights and freedoms as a whole. Now there's a lot of things in this law that they don't agree on. This law is the best law. We believe it is an empty claim. Of course, there has been a habit here that both in the European Union process and in fact in the future, democracy is the way you follow all the changes made by looking at the goal -- in the face -- the way the AKP is following: it seems to have changed everything in order not to change anything. You're really good at this, you're very good at it. You turn a patched sock from September 12th upside down, and you say, look, we've changed it, renewed it, brought the law in front of you. Neither the workers nor the working class nor us nor the opposition will be fooled. That's not how you get ahead of democracy, that's not how you get there. It's obvious that there's more expansion than a narrowing when we're talking about the strike and lockout ban. Mr. Secretary, how many thousand people work in the banking sector?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0149par0127	210 grand.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0148par0128	Do you really know what conditions all of these people work? How many of them are organized, how many of them really have rights and freedoms against their bosses, protected from bank bosses? Is this how we protect working life, how we keep working peace? You'll see -- we're saying this from here -- that when this law goes into practice, all the crooked aspects of this law, all the winging aspects of this law will come out. We'll see how bad it is for the union to be organized, for the rights of the working class, for the rights of the strike, for its use, and for a whole community, for a fundamental law that concerns all of us. Of course, we're not in a perfect place democratically, our country is not a country that lives and practices advanced democracies, we all know that, every day, we witness it, but we need to know that with this law, all the rights of the working class, the freedoms of the working class, the right to organize are under serious threat. You may be spending it here now, but we also mentioned it yesterday, with this law, you will not get off the ILO list, and you will not be able to get out. With this law, you have made progress in the process of negotiating, in terms of workers' rights, in terms of social rights, in terms of workers' freedoms. You can't say that, you can't say that, plus it's not written in this country's house, plus it's not written in this country's house. Dear friends, that's why we're warning you again, we're warning you as opposition: we need to prepare this law properly, we need to observe the demands of workers, unions, workers, workers, workers, we need to not allow them to be further oppressed, we need to limit their rights. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0150par0133	Thank you, Mr. Gür. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0151par0135	Mr. President, excuse me.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0150par0136	Sorry.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0151par0137	I mean, to get him to go from my place to the transcripts...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0150par0138	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0151par0139	I respect Mr. Secretary's sensibilities on my speech just now, but my subject is a worker, my subject is not a union. The agreement reached by unions or confederations, federation, doesn't expect us to respect it if it doesn't contribute to the labor, the labor.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0152par0140	That's right. That's what we can't explain.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0151par0141	Now, here's a unionism that doesn't protect the rights of 210,000 bank employees, and I'm critical here, and if the agreement behind closed doors has nothing to do with the worker...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0152par0142	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0151par0143	...it's worth nothing. Another thing: of course, my business is no unions, no confederations, my business is politics. So, I remind the Minister at this point that if there's a compromise that doesn't work for the worker, they should object politically, and I've been insisting for two days, but unfortunately, there are letters like this coming from the unions, but there's no distance in favor of the worker. I'd like to say that I've made it clear that it's going to go into the transcripts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0153par0147	It's okay, sir. Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 62nd article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 63: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in Article 63 of the 197 Common Business Relations Act, which is discussed, shall be changed to "the seventh joke" in the second joke in Article 63. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 of the Common Business Relations Charter (1) and (3) be changed in the following way. (1) If a decision has been made or started by a legal strike or a lockout general health or a direct violation of national security, the Council of Ministers can postpone the strike and lockout by 60 days in this conflict. The postponement period begins in the date of the decision's release. A mistrial could be filed against the Council of Ministers' postponement rulings in the State Department and the decision may be made to halt the execution. (3) If the agreement cannot be reached at the end of the postponement period, the strike or the lockout can begin again. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 63 of the 197 Numbered Legislature. Article (3). We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0154par0163	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0153par0164	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0155par0165	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the amendment motion on the 63rd Amendment. I salute your committee. First of all, I would like to remind you that the indefinitely, unchanging hunger strike in all the prisons in Turkey has entered its 37th day. I'd like to announce to all the consciences here who are insensitive again that two prisoners in the Silver House prison are on a death fast with a fax we received today. Despite all the calls we've made over the last few days, the House has a general lack of political parties. Yesterday, a woman friend of ours from the Republican People's Party, a woman with a heart and a conscience, made a scream, a voice, in the silence of death against this fast. Therefore, I wish that our friend's behavior would create a sensitivity in all political parties. Of course, for the past few days, we've been talking about this Common Business Act, expressing our views. It is clear now that we are facing a new arrangement in the equation of workers, employers and state, with which the state and the employer have unfortunately hijacked the rights of workers and has not expanded their rights to workers. There's an arrangement at the level of organisation, at the level of collective contract, that brings triple dams in front of rights and freedom demands at every stage. And we see that this three-way dam system of rights is protected in exactly the same way. The mediation system, the High Referee Board and ultimately the political guardianship of the Council of Ministers have been presented as an important dam over the workers' right to strike. Now, Mr. Secretary, with every legal arrangement, when we bring in the motions that we want to be secured, the Minister constantly wants us to rely on them in their own practice, and he doesn't think it's right for us to find a basis for the legal contract. But I would like to illustrate to you just how wrong this is, in the case of the workers who were fired during the Air-Work strike: you know, hundreds of workers were fired with a telephone message. Hundreds of workers who wanted the strike rights had been laid off, and during that time, Mr. Labour Minister stepped in and made several statements that he would work for rehires. But we all know what the outcome is. Again, the Minister of Transport had said: "For us, the comfort of a citizen, access to the ministry is ahead of everything. The AKP is likely to see fit to be laid off so that workers can gain access to the service if they do not accept or accept workers as citizens. Again, Mr. Transport Minister said in that period: "It would not be humane to use our power, our authority, to make people miserable and victimized. In that regard, we expect the question to end immediately. Look, I think you all know where these workers are right now. You know how miserable these workers are, how much you've been victimizing. I would like to remind you again that no assurances from your ministers have been granted to the public. Therefore, I would like to point out that the thresholds of the worker's strike rights system, the High Referee Board and the Council of Ministers cannot be accepted in any way. Earlier valuable speakers specifically noted bans on business, services and strikes in various sectors, and no proposal made at the Commission level or at the General Assembly level was, unfortunately, accepted by the AKP government. So this final bill that you've made looks like a paper tiger in front of the workers, so to speak, and we'll see how this paper tiger is going to go to waste in the struggle of workers. Unfortunately, your bill has not been good for the workers, the workers, and we wish you well. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0156par0177	Thank you, Mr. Baluken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 of the Common Business Relations Charter (1) and (3) be changed in the following way. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends (1) If a decision has been made or started by a legal strike or a lockout general health or a direct violation of national security, the Council of Ministers can postpone the strike and lockout by 60 days in this conflict. The postponement period begins in the date of the decision's release. A mistrial could be filed against the Council of Ministers' postponement rulings in the State Department and the decision may be made to halt the execution. (3) If the agreement cannot be reached at the end of the postponement period, the strike or the lockout can begin again. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0157par0188	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0156par0189	Mr. Cetin, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0158par0191	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, at the core of the law, Mr. Secretary says he brings these unions and collective contract laws to the agenda of the House to strengthen the unions, but we see that in all these years of experience and history, strong trade unionism can't be created by law. Strong trade unionism can be created not by law, but by ownership of workers' unions, by taking care of their own problems. I'd like to say to Mr. Secretary: Look, if the People's Officers have failed to reach an agreement on a collective contract of employment in the Unions Act, the decision of the Committee of Public Officers is final. And here, if the strike was postponed and it was an unfair delay, then the union could take it to the State and file a mistrial or decide to stop the execution. Mr. Secretary, here's a retrial. Now you're blocking the judicial path, forcing one pleasure on the unions and the workers. Dear friends, from time to time, since 1963 we have witnessed the delay of the strike in Turkey to suppress workers and workers, and the intervention in the strike. This country has always been run by right political parties in multi-party life, all of whom have seen workers, unionists, as enemies of this country. That's the way this bill is based on, this fiction. There's no other way to explain this. So if a strike is postponed and delayed, what harm is there in the Ministry of Labor taking the strike to the High Referee Board as its primary duty, and that verdict is lifted from the law brought by September 12th, and the union or employer does not apply to the High Referee Board, then the union's authority falls? What happens when the union falls in charge, Mr. Secretary? The workers remain without a collective contract. If the union loses its authority, the employer will ring the bell. Who else would play? The Minister of Labour, who drafts this bill, plays the Ministry.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0159par0195	And the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0158par0196	And the Prime Minister. Dear friends, I just asked the Minister, he didn't answer. Now, the most important thing here is that everyone talks about the dams about the unions. They write me letters, they talk like that, they speak differently to me. He brings it to me. I condemn the presidents of trade unions who speak differently here and there, and I condemn the presidents of the confederacy. Be clear, and do not spy on the workers or the workers, lest you be abused. So when you bring in 15 per cent of your original bill on dams, I say to that bill, the ministers Ali Babacan, Zafer Çağalan, Cevdet Yilmaz, Nihat Ergün, Fatma Şahin and Prime Minister didn't sign it. It's in the papers, look at this year's January papers, counted one by one. What happened? Why didn't they sign it? Because, obviously, they were under pressure from somewhere. Now the same logic dominates the strike delays. Mr. Secretary, in our proposal, we say that if the Council of Ministers is postponing an unfair strike, don't block the path of justice. We say, if you have to postpone the strike, then you take responsibility as Minister of Labor, avoid responsibility, negotiate, and if they can't, then you take it to the High Referee Board at the end of the settlement. What's wrong with that? Why are you taking this stuff back more than even the 12th of September? I don't understand that. Dear friends, I'll tell you for once, I brought it here, look. This is what our BASISEN union wrote, which was written in December 2011 when it was transferred to parliament. No country in the world is allowed to strike in banking and financial sectors. In our country, the bankers brought in the ban on strikes in the banking and financial sector, brought in the coupgers, and the new civilian coupgers sat on it, laying on top of it. There's no way to accept that. Mr. Secretary, while you were out of Ankara -- and I'm saying this because I can't reach -- following a bill on taxi drivers, air-business... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...has been taken into consideration for the anti-grev ban. What did you do as minister? Last sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0160par0205	Go ahead, say it, finish it.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0158par0206	What did you do? I mean, that's not acceptable logic. Even the Kenan Universe did not bring this ban. You could not say. So I say to unionists, unions, workers, don't try to look cute, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0160par0208	Thank you, Mr. Cetin.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0161par0209	Mr. President, a brief statement, if I may...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0160par0210	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0161par0211	Thank you. Now, the postponement of the strike is a process of management.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0162par0213	Do not seek refuge in him, nor seek refuge in him.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0161par0214	The Constitution, according to 125 Τ, has a clear way of ruling against all actions and procedures of the administration. • With this assurance, while under constitutional security, I find it difficult to understand a question such as why did you remove the State from here?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0162par0215	Why are you taking it off? There was no judgment there.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0161par0216	Unnecessary arrangement. Because it's already secured. The procedure of the administration is subject to trial, you can take it to court, it can sue.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0162par0217	Why does it bother you that he exists in the law?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0161par0218	That's why I'm saying this so there's no sense of serious error because you're talking too hot in here. On the contrary, it's a legal arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0163par0220	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who do not... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the second joke in Article 63 of the Common Business Relations Act, which has been discussed in the 197 rows, we propose that the subdivision be changed to the seventh joke. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0164par0229	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0165par0230	Motive...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0163par0231	Motive... The second joke in the article that regulates the postponement of strike and lockout states that after the postponement of the postponement, the mediator, determined according to Article 6 of Article 60, will make every effort to resolve the conflict during a postponement period. Since this assignment in the relevant article was carried out in the seventh joke, the financial error has been corrected. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 63th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 64: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit that Article 64 of the Common Business Relations Act (1/567) that the 5th Amendment is removed from the draft text. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 64 of the Common Business Relations Charter 64 be removed from the text of Article (2) and (3), which is being discussed in the following way. (5) Administrator or worker who decides to strike during the strike is responsible for the damage caused by the strike in the workplace due to the flawed actions of the manager or workers. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0166par0245	We can't agree. So what we're saying here is that we're excluding unions from the damage done during the strike, so whoever committed this crime should pay for it. It's a very proper arrangement, and it's an arrangement that everyone agrees with, but we're having a hard time understanding the motion, and we can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0163par0247	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0167par0248	The motive will be read, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0163par0249	Motive... For effective use of strike rights, bans on 2 and 3 are advised to be lifted. With the 2010 amendments to the Constitution, 54th Amendments to the Constitution. Article 3. Although the joke has been lifted, the resolution that "the union is responsible for the damage caused by the fallout of the unions" is contrary to the Constitution, as well as the continuation of the 12 September mentality. Therefore, it is proposed to be removed from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey We propose and submit that Article 64 of the Common Business Relations Act (1/567) that the 5th Amendment is removed from the draft text. Rusar Demirel (Eskişehir) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. The government...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0168par0261	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0163par0262	Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0169par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the motion on Article 64 of the Common Affairs Act of 197. My respects to the High Council. So, of course, when we started to talk about this union law without even describing it as the union law, we started to talk about it in the subcommittee and the principal commissions, and we said, let's not just call it collective business, let's call it union law, let's call it union law together. Our view on that day was not accepted, but there was a persistent attitude at the point where it would only be called the law of collective business relations. After all these talks and talks, I understand that this bill really shouldn't be called union law. The government, indeed, strongly opposed it to calling it a union law because it knew that its true intention was just collective business relations, that it couldn't be filled at the core of the union law, based on its content. This bill, which comes before our Supreme Assembly, is a bill aimed at changing Group Contract Strikes 2821 and 2822, and the Lokaoutt Law. The main reason is to establish a working life in accordance with democratic and international contracts. When we look at the point where we look at it, instead of a text fit for democratic and international contracts, in Turkey, especially as a result of all commission talks, we see that employers, employers, bosses, certain unions, even if they don't make it into the Commission, we are deeply surprised that this bill is being stitched into. Of course, we are aware that making this union law isn't really that easy. As the Minister has always expressed, we are also aware that there is a bill that has been waiting for thirty years, that may be bringing it to the General Assembly, and that even at the statute of limitations, there are serious concerns. But if this law is to be set up, if we have to use an honest statement to the worker, to the worker, to the worker, to make it clear that this bill will not be a plus if we need to use a sincere statement to what benefit this bill will bring to those in the coming process. That's what our objections are, or we already know that the Union's Law cannot stand firm behind the government's promise at the point of obstruction of strike and lockout bans at the September 12, 2010 referendum. Why do we know? Because after seven or eight months of these talks, the delay in bringing the bill to Parliament's agenda, when there were many collective contracts and victims at the negotiating table, has allowed us to accept the idea that the bill cannot be brought to parliament, as well as that the Minister and the Council of Ministers alone are discussed in the commissions. So to put it simply, in this bill, the first button of the shirt has been buttoned wrong. The subject is not equipped with workers. The bill is full of new regulations, not of labour and labour, but of bosses, employers. When you say democratic and international norm-appropriate, you're kept away from the ILO contracts and the European Union norms. We'd expect that, frankly, it's a really difficult bill to make, but here behind closed doors, with union representatives -- Mr. Secretary says they're talking about it -- and I recommend that they review themselves from here. But really, if the main element were to be set up in the form of the European Union norms, the ILO contracts, a bill in favor of laborers and workers, we hope the Minister's process of convincing them wouldn't be difficult. Of course, in some areas here, former speakers have expressed that there is no way to understand the ban on strikes and lockouts. In the fifth article of the article, the union is responsible for the strike by mentioning financial damage caused at the workplace during the strike, as a result of the flawed movement of the union which decided to strike. While the arrangement is extremely open to interpretation, the definition of defect is not defined by the link between flaws and outcomes. It's common for a strike to cause financial damage. Since it's a common result, we've requested that the item be removed from the text, as the labour union can be asked to make a strike decision, which would be a deterrent to the right to strike. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0170par0274	Thank you, Mr. Oz. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 64th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 65 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that Article 65 of the Common Business Relations Charter (2) be changed in the following form. (2) The quality of workers who will stay out of strike and lockout is declared by the employer or the employer's or employer's deputy within six working days of the start of the collective meeting, and an example of this ad is delivered to the entity labor union. If the labour union does not appeal to the court within 30 days of the notice date, the ads will be finalised. If you object, the court will make a final decision within six working days. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0171par0284	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0170par0285	Mr. Aldan... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0172par0287	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, according to the reports of labor unions, a collective contract ban is imposed on 6m,298 thousand workers. Because of the 3% threshold, 6 million workers will not be able to get a collective contract, even if they are members of the union. That number is more than half of registered workers. With the law passed, 50,000 workers would lose their right to a collective contract, which will be four times the number of dams brought back. The bill envisions the reduction of the labour arm dam to 1% within a year. Although this may seem positive at first glance, the situation in practice will be the opposite. Based on the number of union workers, nearly 60 per cent of the established unions will be stuck in the 1 per cent dam and will be dysfunctional and will remain under the threshold of about 15 ▪ which is still in the collective contract. This bill is a classic AKP gift to those who say, "Yes, even at the wedding table," with the words that it would give them the right to become members of more than one union. This bill is the forbidden fruit of two confederates, one on the side of power and the other on the belly, and the forbidden fruit of the power and cooperation of laborers. Unfortunately, today, according to the Minister's statement, the same things that were said behind closed doors and shared with the community have changed, so the newspaper ads were a lie. In fact, if you really want to do something to defend the rights of workers and workers, I think you should have filled the squares, confederation officials. In the meantime, if you want to make an assessment of the 65th article, then once again, the title of the article is exactly this: I mean, it's an important record of employees that the employer will work at the workplace during the strike, but in the fourth joke of the 64th article, the sale of products produced by workers who don't participate and work out of the workplace. So there is an important contradiction between both jokes. This contradiction will not be resolved. Second, it is the employer who will identify those who are left at work if they are forced to work. Therefore, if 100 people work in a workplace, the employer will be able to keep 100 of them at work in an arbitrary manner. The transfer of this authority to the employer will also be a provision that can cause the abuse of that authority in the matter. Therefore, it would be appropriate for this authority to be granted to the regional labour institution director or the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. And at last, we ask that labor unions be granted the right to appeal to the court within 30 days of the day of the notice. In the law, we see that six-day periods have been constantly highlighted. Six-day periods may not be enough to assess the event in a sense. In this regard, we think it would be better to give workers' unions a 30-day period -- since they need to make a joint decision on a common platform, considering that thousands of people work as well. And finally, when this law, above all, intends to eliminate a law that is the product of September 12th, we have days in Turkey where people are suspended from unionisation, and if a trade union can't be neutralized, then a side union will be formed immediately and that union will be unfunctioned. In this sense, I give all of you respect for the idea that this law will not be of great benefit to Turkish labor.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0173par0295	Thank you, Mr. Aldan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 65th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 66, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 66 of the Common Business Relations Charter (3) be changed in the following way. (1) During the strike and lockout, workers use insurance aid, allowance and health care services according to the relevant provisions of Social Insurance No. 5510 and General Health Insurance. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0174par0305	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0173par0306	Who's gonna talk? Here you go, Mr. Houser.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0175par0308	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have promised that the right to collective contract, union organisation and strike in the September 12th 2010 referendum would be more liberal, labour, labor, and the right to strike, unfortunately, the AKP is doing its best today to remove the unions. The 51st article of the Constitution was to stop being a member of more than one trade union in the same line of work, as you know. This barrier has been eliminated by the fifth article of the change package, but it is still forbidden to belong to more than one trade union. So the chances of the employees sitting on the collective contract table were taken from you in a stronger way. Again, similarly, the constitutional restrictions imposed on the Constitution's right to strike were eliminated by the 7th article of the package. The decision to be responsible for the losses caused during the strike is hereby lifted, along with this amendment, in order to further strengthen the union's rights. In the current situation, political strike and lockouts are prohibited. In the amendment to Article 54, all these bans are being lifted. Although it is said that the strike bans continue to be the same. The bill recognizes the right to strike only when support and solidarity strikes are lifted and the collective agreements are blocked. The draft defines the law as a strike, which only defines the strike as a legal strike in conflict of interest, showing that other species with rights are being taken into the definition of illegal strikes. In particular, it is against ILO contracts and European Social Conditions to ban species such as solidarity strike, government policy protests, general strike. The ILO Committee of Experts specifically states that actions such as job slowing, occupation of business, warning strike, reduction of efficiency should be considered a strike strike. So, contrary to what you claim, these regulations continue in violation of the 98th Convention of ILO. Both the Employment Act and the Trade Unions Act have indicated that workers cannot be laid off or subject to different treatment because they are members of unions, but the assurances and sanctions prescribed to workers are not enough if the worker is dismissed because he is a member of the union. As part of the job guarantee, the union can sue for extradition, citing the union's dissolution of the employment contract. In this case, however, he has an obligation to prove that the employment contract has been annulled for a union reason. As I've just told the Minister, my district, Tekirdağ Velimesh, has been laid off without severance due to 18 workers working at the Hobim Information Centre in the Organised Industry District, on the grounds that they are members of the Press-Work Union. Workers working in factories everywhere in almost every part of Turkey are under union pressure. Union membership and union organisation are not enough legal guarantees, but the legislation does not provide adequate protection at the point of the real use of union freedom. For many instances, employers, bureaucrats, as shown by the incident, have resigned workers from existing trade unions, leading them to trade unions that they have built or employ, and the workers' freedom to choose a union is being violated. And this is a very striking example -- we've been in Rize, in the last few weeks -- as you know, we've lived in CHAKUR. Although the Tektüda-Business Union has registered more than half of the employees at the workplace, the Ministry has given the authority to sign the contract to Self Food-Business. Of course, he went through the Recess-Business judicial process, but the judicial process lasted exactly four years. No one has the right to block the right to a collective contract for four years. Therefore, the union of workers has to be free to choose their union. Dear lawmakers, the bill protects the labour arm dams, protects strike bans and obstacles, does not provide union guarantees, defines the right to a collective contract as a right not as a right for all workers but as a right for registered workers. So this bill is antidemocratic, non-working peace. So I'd like to point out that we're voting no on this bill. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0176par0316	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 66 is accepted. There's a motion on the 67th article that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the article 67 in Article 67 of the Common Business Relations Bill, which cannot be employed because of the strike, which cannot be joined or stopped attending. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0177par0324	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0178par0325	Motive...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0176par0326	I'm reading the reason: The protection and suspension of the worker's service contract is directly related to the strike or lockout. The suspension of the service contract of the worker who did not participate in the strike is incompatible with this principle of protection. Therefore, it is proposed to be removed from the article text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 67th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 67 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 68, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The number 197 Common Business Relations Act, which is currently in session, is under Article (1) of Article 68. We offer and propose that the Lu joke be changed in the following way. (1) During a legal strike or lockout, employment contracts under Article 67 are required to replace employees who are suspended permanently or temporarily unable to hire other workers or employ others. The employer's illegal action is inspected by the entity's office in the form of a written application for the union. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0179par0338	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0176par0339	Mr. Akar, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0180par0341	Mr. President, my dear friends, my fellow lawmakers, the law we're negotiating is Unions and the collective contract law. Of course, this law didn't come with that name, but Mr. Secretary thinks it's union law when you call it that, but we don't think it's a union law. Of course, when you say union law, you think of unionized labor rates in developed industrial countries, the number of workers. For example, there are 8,600,000 people in Germany, and there are 12 percent in the German population. I'm talking unionized union workers. Again, from developed countries, from industrial developed countries, Britain has 7 million,550,000 people, and this has a 15% population rate. Italy has 11,600,000 people, and this has a 23 percent population rate. So, what's the situation in Turkey? Before September 12, 1980, there were two and a half million workers, ten million registered workers today, so there were about four times more workers. Today again, we have 922,000 union workers. Of course, let's not confuse this 922,000, this 922 thousand doesn't have the right to strike, it just goes on as union workers. This corresponds to 8.94 per cent of Turkey's population. So, what does it mean to say that in this country that we're talking about being so industrialized, the union rate is low, the number of union workers? Let me explain what it means, and again in the data of the Turkish Statistical Agency, the hunger limit of a family of four is $949, and the poverty limit is $3,092. Mr. Minister, I am a deputy in the province of Alexei, and the province of Alexei is considered the industrial capital of the Republic of Turkey. I'm asking you, in the last ten years, how many strikes have been committed in the province of Kopeeli during your reign? What's the strike for? The worker is made to use the power that comes from production. Against what? These rights are not necessarily a material right, they may be related to their rights, but there have been no more strikes than the fingers of one hand in the province of Seipeli in ten years. I especially want to talk about the rubber business. Three strikes have been issued in the chemical sector, which is claimed to have paid the best in Turkey, and three times this strike has been banned by the Council of Ministers' decision. It was because of the decision not to strike in the interest of national interests. I'm speaking to the Minister again: What national interest could this strike have been without? Yes, you put off the strike one time, two delays, three delays; because you removed the worker from the situation that would strike in two or three months, you made it impossible to strike because you lowered his income, and today you're in a position with this law as if all workers in Turkey would suddenly become unionists. Now, we haven't been able to do that in the last ten years, but the worker couldn't strike, what happened? In every institution -- in the private sector -- there are as many subcontractors as there are staff workers. The costs are much lower than they are. Again, I ask you: Koelli is in the industrial district again, and I'm not talking about the labor costs in Bigeli, I'm not talking about the labor costs in Turkey -- compare the labour costs in Europe, compare the labor costs in Turkey. The European car giant was not given to you by the free replacement -- there are 6,600 workers working at Ford. Ask me, how much do these workers work for? How much do these workers work for? Look, how do you get your work papers annulled when they sign up for union? 66,000 people have been in and out of this factory in ten years. 66,000 people have been in and out in ten years. Do you know who he's taking? He takes two years of vocational high school graduates and two years of vocational high school graduates. All right, I'm asking you: these kids are suspended for six months, eight months, one year, two years, and they're out of business. How are these kids gonna make three kids at their weddings and their weddings, like you said? Now, I ask the friends who passed this law, the friends who made it: let them work for a month, take care of their own families, and then say: these laws, these laws that we have made are the right laws. Indeed, the labor of the worker is being exploited; the labor of the worker is being exploited by the imperialist countries, by the capital in Turkey. Turkey is still not an industrialized country. I'm just saying that because the workers' costs are low, these countries are coming to Turkey, this industry is coming to Turkey, and in your ten years of power, you've turned the country into a country where labor is being exploited. I don't think this law is going to solve the workers' unionization rights, and I don't think it's going to increase their unionization rate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0181par0351	Thank you, Mr. Akar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 68th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 68th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 69, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 69 of the Common Business Relations Bill, which is currently in session, be removed from Article (2) from the text of the article. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0182par0360	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0183par0361	Motive.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0181par0362	Motive... During the strike and lockout, non-paying workers cannot be expected to pay their rent and mandatory expenses. The employer will be able to use it to break the strike. Therefore, such expenses and rent are offered not to be demanded during the strike. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 69th article: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 69th article has been accepted. There's a motion on the 70th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 70 of the Common Business Relations Charter (2) be changed as follows. (2) If the damage caused by the employer, the manager of the labour union who decided to strike, or the illegal strike was carried out undecided by any labour organization, the strike will be met by the workers involved in the strike. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0184par0374	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0181par0375	Mr. Ayday. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0185par0378	Thank you, Mr. President. I took a look at it on my way to Parliament. Turkey is an industrial city. Your friends, who say, stress the weight of the working class in the economy, point out in the speech of the Minister and all the speakers, the excessive emphasis on labor and the substitute of workers in the country's economy. Then I thought, where's Salim Nice? Labour leader, AKP MP, has been president of a union for years. So I asked Çelebi, and he said that he had not taken any promises, and that he had been absent for two days, and that he had signed a document and left Parliament. I've listened to it for a while, so who really knows about it, who's telling us who's good. I listened to the Minister, and his speech is actually very helpful because he sometimes made a statement about how hypocritical the workers' leaders are. In private talks, he said that labor leaders actually support the law very much, but talk about other things in public and in front of the press. The results come from all of this: The working class is not a serious political force, even though it is heavily occupied by Turkey's economy. It's just that my friends, who come from laboring like Süleyman Çelebi, Musa Pine, Izzet Cetin, and are now fighting behind the CHP, have been able to warn Parliament and society and act against them in accordance with the responsibility of becoming members of the working class. Now, I'm hoping that this bad law will result in this, and I'm hoping that soon the leaders of state-owned official ideology and capital will be able to take over, and when they come to Parliament, the men who are really fighting like Süleyman Çelebis will be born from within and won't be able to sell the class that they have reached in these ranks, or women will be able to do it. In this regard, I wish that this wicked law would bring good results. Of course, blaming the working class and the unions is not really a very measured attitude, and I'm aware of it, because if you're not putting pepper spray in the eye of a unionist like Musa Pine, who's walking with a group of struggling workers, and you're not judging the cops who did this at all, then Musa Pine is in the hospital, and if it's not even newsworthy in the media organs that depend on you, we have to think about how workers who have no concern but to bring their children bread will resist the entire AKP dictatorship. Now, there's a very interesting difference between what the Minister told us and the speakers here. For example, the speakers on behalf of the MHP said that the law reduces the number of business branches, that the union workers weaken their power in the country's economy, that it makes it easier for them to lay off, and that they will be burdened with compensation on the necks of the laid-off workers. I agree with all of this, but the Minister claims otherwise. I've studied this law in the morning, and with the actual numbers, it's clear how harmful it would be to the working class, but obviously no one in this Parliament favours negotiation. It's enough just to be here at a certain time and raise your hand in the vote. So, in fact, I think it is necessary for the whole community to learn how to shape the law. If this isn't a matter of negotiating in Parliament, dialogue, we need to support Musa Pine and his friends' rights action on the streets. They've already gone to that protest on that day because they know nothing will come out of Parliament, but those who are here, those who say their opinion, are writing down in history, warning the community because the minutes of these talks can be monitored, they're falling down in history. It's written on memories of who's a laborer, who's a working enemy, who's signed the law here. The younger generations will benefit from these reports when a proud history of the working class is written in Turkey. I'm a member of the CHP Group, which will vote against the law. I can't repeat what my fellow workers say in their conversations because it's not my area of expertise. But we know from our experience that there can only be a fight against the AKP. That's why I'm here to greet some of the unions, some of the Turkish-Isk, some of the trade unions, some of the women who have lost their jobs, 305 THY employees who have fought and fought on behalf of the working class. In the Progress Report of the European Union, I also make a note of the broken grade of THY, which has been presented as a world conqueror, honor, and pride. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0186par0389	Thank you, Mr. Ayday.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0187par0390	Mr. President, the speaker used a statement that I accused the heads of confederation of hypocrisy, and on the other hand, they said they only read the law in the morning about this bill. We've been reading this law in the morning for five years, working on it for five years. There's no way to accept a strong accusation of hypocrisy.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0188par0391	You just did, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0187par0392	But I said this, and I'm telling you, I've told you my website. Instead of taking matters into consideration under the whole legislature of the law, I said that the unions, as a local, take matters into their own hands, and there are different views on the arrangements that we're going to make for each meeting. So I'd like to express to you that, like hypocrisy, there's an extremely serious accusation that neither a talking witness will do, nor a friend here, nor would that be appropriate for us.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0188par0393	You said it after Mr. Shandir's letter, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0189par0394	Thank you for your explanation. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 70th article has been accepted. There are two motions on Article 71: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 71 of the 197 Numbered Bill of the Law. Article (1). The court shall decide in a month. The court shall decide in 15 days. We offer and offer to have it changed in the form of the court. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 71 of the Common Business Relations Charter (2) be removed from the article text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0190par0405	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0189par0406	Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0191par0407	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 71st Amendment. First of all, I salute you. When we look at the 71st article, we actually think that the first joke is enough, so in the first joke, the process has already been transferred to the court about the detection case, and there has been a certain period of time, which means that the second joke, in a sense, is no longer a strike ban. Here, I mean, the decision of a strike may or may be being carried out, the sentence valid for strike or lockout is against the law of parties, workers, employers or the ministry; the decision to strike is against the law of strike or lockout. The decision of the court can go to trial for the identification case. For this, the judiciary has been given a month's notice, which means that in a month you will be able to look at and conclude this case. If it is to be appealed, the Supreme Court will be given a period of time, and the Supreme Court will complete it within a month. What did the 2nd joke say? As a precaution, the court says -- this decision -- can decide whether the strike should be stopped here or -- the decision to comply, and the decision to implement -- should be removed, so there is no need for that. There's no need for that, now, that's a ban. We say this should be removed from the material text. That's the nature of our proposal. Now, I'd like to say something other than the motion. In fact, I don't want to get into any different issues when the law is being discussed, but since I think it's important, you know Congress will be on vacation day after tomorrow, day after day because... it was on the front page of a newspaper today, an improvement on my knowledge. We can name the newspaper, it's going to be a commercial now, but there was a story on the newspaper Milliyet, about the nuclear plant, about the third nuclear power plant, dear friends. It says: At the third nuclear plant, the roads lead to Needleda. Where's the needle? Pinikada is a village in the Black Sea region of Kırklareli, my constituency, and is a town in Demirköy district. Minister of Culture and Tourism was here for a while. Minister of Forests and Water, Mr. Eroglu knows those regions very well because he knew the work of the Istrancas when he transferred the water to the ISKI, which means that he knew about the region, about Demirköy, about Needleda, about the region. Plus, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Günay knows that area very well, because in a sense, the tourist zone is a valuable friend. Our watering forests are there, in Pinada, in Istranca forests of Demirköy. There's talk of a nuclear plant. It's been talked about from time to time, and I've considered it a myth, and, of course, I've given the Ministry questions about it in the last semester. They answered me, and it's not too far away, so the answer is here, recently. They say there's no such study yet. There are plans for different places in Turkey, but they don't say anything clear, they don't mention the existence of such a thing. Now, when news like this came out, I asked again: I mean, if there was such a study, when did you start this work? So there's no such study. You said recently. When did you start this work? Here, we know the plant in Mersin Akkuyu, how it began, how it was given to the Russians, how it was given the land, how it was given, no contract. Here's the same thing about Sinop. Now, on top of that, dear friends, we have another incident today. I got a call from the mayor of Pinada today. There's an article from the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. There's an application for the Energy Market Editing Board. There's the village of Liken, which is the same pad, where the nuclear plant will be built again in Needledada, and there's the village of Pinada, that's 8 to 10 kilometers away. A company, called Emba Electricity Productions Inc., applied for a 1,200 megawatt thermal plant, where the company, dear friends, applied. Where? To the EPDK. Now, he's got a preliminary application, and he's informing the municipality about it, and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization says the process has begun. Dear friends, I mean, the nuclear power plant isn't enough, and we're looking at a thermal power plant. I mean, there's a saying like that, one at a time, in the shape of a bride. Where did it come from? Could there be two plants in the same pad? Where will the imported coal come from? I don't know whether it's from Bulgaria, Ukraine, Russia. But I tried to study part of it today; there's a nuclear plant in the same island, a thermal plant in the same island, and a thermal plant in the Needleda. Of course, the centipede, after this headline, is on the rise after this news. So Needleda's property aside, but it's really unthinkable to have two plants in the same place. At least today I wanted to bring it up on this occasion. I think the ministries of this matter should be taken care of by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, dear friends. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0192par0416	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 71 of the 197 Numbered Bill of the Law. Article (1). The court shall decide in a month. The court shall decide in 15 days. We offer and offer to have it changed in the form of the court. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0193par0425	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0192par0426	Mr. Baluken, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0194par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. Now, I'm afraid all the motions we've brought here about working life have not been accepted. We've seen the AKP conduct a process here in the same way as in every bill. We've been getting hundreds of phone calls about extracurricular life for the past two days in particular, and we've been promised to inform the General Assembly on that matter and to inform the Minister that we expect a sensitivity. About ten months ago, we prepared an offer on the law. It was a law proposal that opened up a way to retire, to retire, to those who had not been able to pay their bonus accounts. When we proposed this law, we saw that other political parties were very interested in it, and we found out that some of our fellow lawmakers in both the Republican People's Party and the EC PARTY were preparing proposals on this issue. In fact, we've been waiting ten months for him to come to the Commission's agenda, but even after ten months, such a law proposal, which concerns thousands, tens of thousands of people, unfortunately didn't come to the Commission's agenda. We've had this kind of talk before in the General Assembly, and we expected this kind of sensitivity from the Minister. Yesterday, a valuable member of parliament from the Republican People's Party brought it up. They're curious about Mr. Minister's views on this, so the pensioners, pensioners, came to visit us when the bill was offered. They visited all political parties, and then we received numerous letters specifically about it, we received countless e-mails, and we need to immediately state that the solution is a burning process. That's why we feel it's very important for the Minister to make a statement on this matter. Now, those of you who are old and who haven't retired again feel the need to rejoin the labor force in addition to filling these pension processes and to compensate for the current income problems, and so this reflects both the efficiency of the job and the unemployment of the young population. Thus, we think such an arrangement will especially increase efficiency in the workforce and pave the way for further employment for the young population. Here, of course, these reasons may not be taken very seriously by Mr. Secretary, but I'm sure a motive might be interesting to him. This will also have a positive investment in the market and the overall economic balances if our retired citizens are paid collectively. You know, the general logic is that, unfortunately, it's the money entry for the AKP, so we'd like to consider a situation like this. We think it's necessary to make an arrangement on this issue because right now, most of the pensioners in the country over 9 million live below the poverty and hunger line. Look, the hunger limit is for a family of 4 whose poverty limit is around $1,200, set at $2,500 and $3,500, and based on these figures, 75 percent of pensioners are now under the poverty and hunger limit. Look, I'd like to give you a few examples of pensions in European countries: a pension in Ireland is 1,300 euros, a pension in the Netherlands 1,400 in Belgium, a pension of 900 euros even in Greece, which is in the grip of the crisis. Unfortunately, so far, no regulation has been made regarding the general non-work conditions of pensioners, and no regulation has been made by the government to remove them from the poverty line, but we think it's important at least to have a sensitivity to this law proposal and to have the Minister give the millions a piece of news that will make them feel better about it. In working life, you didn't make much of an adjustment to the demands of rights and freedom, at least you didn't make a bill, after you retired, the workers, the workers... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think it would be extremely positive for you to make an explanation that would make her feel better. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit03spe0195par0439	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 71st article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm gonna take an hour off.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0195par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue the talks of Bill 197. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 72: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 72 of the 197 Numbered Legislature. Article (1). We offer and propose that the following statement in his joke be removed from the text of matter. ..or harming national wealth. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 72 of the Common Business Relations Charter (1) and (2) be changed in the following way. (1) Upon applying to one of the parties or the Minister of Labour and Social Security, the court determines that the strike rights or the lockout will be halted if the main public services are fully interrupted, in the event that life, personal safety, and the use of it in a way that could endanger the health of the entire community or part of the community. (2) If the damage caused by the employer, the manager of the labour union who decided to strike, or the illegal strike was carried out undecided by any labour organization, the strike will be met by the workers involved in the strike. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0196par0015	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0195par0016	Mr. Dinçer, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0197par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received your word on the motion we made on Unions Number 197 and Article 72 of the Common Business Contract Act. I salute you all. In this article, I'm going to talk about the right to strike and the abuse of lockout. But until we get to this clause, since we don't have that right, since there's no strike, Mr. Minister, I can't help but wonder what we're going to talk about now because this power has done so well without talking about rights. I'm curious to know which rights serve what ban. Look, this law is very clear to us. We've told you many times how this law should really be. We've been talking about every clause for weeks, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it, and we've been talking about it all the time, and we've been talking about it, and we've been talking about it, and we've been talking about it, and we've been Without the ability to maintain and develop the level of union organisation and collective bargaining in Turkey, this law cannot be considered to be adopted without that understanding. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we are the best in union and collective agreements. We are at least the top five each year in the report of union rights violations published by the International Union of Workers. In 2011, we won first place, we won first in prohibitions, we won first in rights violations. Now, this clause we're talking about says that in the event of public damage and the destruction of national wealth, the strike or lockout could be decided to stop. But with such vague, broad expressions, this clause, which allows the strike or the lockout to be stopped, is clearly an intervention in the right to free collective bargaining. It's the government that knows how to justify the right with a spoon and then scoop it back up, restrict the rights of the worker, the worker, with the afflicted sentences. Now where is the reckoning of this substance with September 12th? I ask you. Isn't that defending September 12th? This substance was the same on that day, the same today. Although the 2010 amendments to the Constitution and the third joke of Article 54 of the Constitution have been abolished, the decision that the trade union is responsible for the damage caused by the union's flawed movement is nothing more than the continuation of the 12 September mentality, as it is against the Constitution. As we have suggested in our proposal, we demand that the person involved be held responsible in place of the institutions within the framework of the individuality of punishments. It is against the principle of freedom of collective negotiation to intervene in the strike rights, which is the union's only guarantee with vague statements in this article. Therefore, it is contrary to the ILO Conventions 87 and 98. Using it by ILO and using it as two criteria in accordance with Article 98, state officials who use state authority at work and, literally, say that if service is interrupted, the strike can be stopped or banned in basic services that could endanger the health of all of the community and all of the community. Now, the right to strike is restricted by the abstract expressions of this clause you're setting up. So, every place of business that you don't want and you call it the national economy is clearly involved in it. Where does what you call the national economy begin and where does it end? When you say "employee," the national economy starts, the damage starts to go to waste; when you say "no" but "no," the national economy begins when you say "boss" (boss). Turkish Airlines is the national economy, while Turkish Airlines employees are the economy of 305 families outside the borders of this country. What right is this, what justice is this, what legal system is this, what democracy, what freedom is this? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0198par0032	Thank you, Mr. Dinçer. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, I make them read the other motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 72 of the 197 Numbered Legislature. Article (1). We offer and propose that the following statement in his joke be removed from the text of matter. ..or harming national wealth. İdris Bauken (Bingöl) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0199par0041	We can't agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0198par0042	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0200par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a solemn pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party on the amendment to Article 72 of the Common Business Charter of 197, and I salute you all. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's clear that a social reality where membership in unions is considered equivalent to being fired is not a step forward with legal changes, but a change of logic is important. It may be difficult to organize in the private sector with the support of existing laws, but with the privatisation of public enterprises, the number of unionists in our country today is in the lowest numbers in history as a result of the loss of members by organised unions. In a country with millions of employees, where trade unionisation is estimated to be less than 5% in the private sector, the number of members of each union is measured by thousands reflects a painful picture for our country, and it is highly thought-finding. A reality where 95% of the employees are unorganized shows that it is not possible for our people to defend and exercise the simplest and most basic demands of working life and everyday life. The bill is due to the reason for the proposals adopted after last year's referendum and has been alleged to have been prepared with a liberal approach to ILO and the EU norms, which have been critical of the obstacles to union organisation in our country for years, but unfortunately the proposed bill seems to be far from meeting those standards. I'm sorry to say that the bill continues to be the outlaw mentality of September 12th. In the same way, the bill states that it is impossible to move trade unionism forward with the existing law, but the new bill clearly states that this is not possible. The dual dam system, which exists in the existing law and cannot be defended, is preserved exactly as it is. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the most crucial elements of the bill is the regulation that does not make the strike possible in air travel. As an antidemocratic practice, the requirement for 40 per cent of workers to work in the event of a strike, which is to be identified by the employer will be engraved in memory. Article 72 of the bill contains a number of regulations aimed at blocking the workers' right to strike, which is their basic right to strike. In the first article of the article, the declaration of "national wealth" is vague, and it must be removed from the text of the law, as it can be withdrawn anywhere. This article, entitled the abuse of grev and lokavt, is organised under Article 47 of Law 2822. In fact, the ruling of Law 2822 is a direct violation of the right to strike. The concept of national wealth is a concept that covers all production outcomes in the country, and the exercise has a very broad meaning. The strike will, in effect, damage production and thus harm national wealth, whether it wants to or not. Therefore, this judgment should not be included in any of the laws, including 2822. Involuntary appliances can be used in a highly abusive way, with an understanding that prevents the right to strike from being used. As I stop speaking, again, I salute you with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0201par0054	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 72nd article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 73: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose that Article 73 of the Common Business Relations Charter (1) be changed. (1) The labour union, which has declared a strike at work, can place the top twenty strike watchers from among its own members in and out of the workplace to monitor whether its members comply with the strike decision without force or without threat. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 73 of the 197 Numbered Legislature. Article (3). We propose and propose that the following joke be added to the article text. (4) Barracks, tents, etc. at the workers' unions' strike site. it is within the law to establish shelters. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Motive. A strike as a way of seeking rights is a serious way of the worker's rights against the employer. Thus, the above joke is added to help increase the strike resistance, which is the employee's relative balance of power in front of the employer. I submit to your votes this motion that I have given you, that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the following way, we propose and propose that Article 73 of the Common Business Relations Charter (1) be changed. Sulaiman Çelebi and his companions. (1) The labour union, which has declared a strike at work, can place the top twenty strike watchers from among its own members in and out of the workplace to monitor whether its members comply with the strike decision without force or without threat. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. The government... We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Pine, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0202par0084	Mr. President, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you all. Mass relations or unions, strike and collective contract law will be enforced by the votes you're about to issue, but I want to stress once again that this law on unions and collective contract laws, workers, workers, employees, is not a very right law for employees. As lawmakers, our job as Parliament is to make laws, make laws. Parliament and lawmakers will have no function if they take the authority to make laws out of our hands. The armed forces will have no function if you remove the material from their hands. If you take away the farmer's seed, the tractor, the farmer will have no function. If you take away the workers' right to strike, the union will have no function, no function, friends. Together with these regulations, if you remove the right to strike, or not use the power of workers from production, then the union will have no sense or duty to do its union work, the workers in the workplace, the representatives in charge of the union. With this arrangement, you bring many strike bans, and after September 12, 1980, especially in the ten-year period of AKP power, you put off a strike in both the workforce of petrochemistry and the glass business arm, and put them under strike ban. Finally, on September 12, 2010, you took the air force -- within the scope of the curfew -- in the middle of the midnight law proposal you brought in on piracy taxiing in May, friends -- and if you agree to this on September 12, 2010, you will say that all obstacles and bans in front of union rights and freedoms will be lifted in Turkey, and you are now continuing to ban strikes again. In our motion, Mr. President, if there is a strike at a workplace, there are four workers who serve as strike watchers in front of the business you brought in. So we're saying that this is 4, it's 14, it's 24, what's the difference? But it doesn't bother you, Mr. Secretary, what bothers you, Mr. Commission, what bothers you, what bothers you, whether there's a thousand people, 2,000 people, 3,000 people, 700 people, 800 people, four people in a workplace where they work, whether it's a strike watcher, 15 people or 20 people, what bothers you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0203par0091	Turn around, it's bothering us.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0202par0092	But, my friends, the Commission disagrees, and the Minister disagrees. Well, my dear congressman friend, if there were 14 people in that business instead of four, it wouldn't bother you, it wouldn't bother you, why don't you accept it, why don't you? If there's four strike watchers at a workplace where a thousand people work, what if there's 14 of them, friends, or apocalypse, or the world turns upside down? No, but you want to show only four people at that workplace, no one else, not even the image or the image of the strike here, as the TOBBB, TUSKON, industry, and businessmen dictated. It's not right, it's not good. On the one hand, you'll get the votes of workers, workers, poor people, and you'll put a bullet in their feet. Actually, it's the right thing to do. You're doing a good thing. It's not your fault, it's not your fault, it's all those workers and workers who still vote for you, but the biggest mistake is the fact that our union managers who run them still haven't been able to teach our friends how and how to keep the workers conscious and how to stand in the class struggle, how to shoot themselves, how to make their lives miserable, how to vote against a neoliberal power. That's the trouble, it's not your fault, it's the fault, it's our fault, because we and the union managers couldn't change those fellow workers, because we couldn't change our fellow workers, because we couldn't vote for a right-wing party, not because their interest was in voting for a left party, but because we couldn't teach them to vote for a left party. Whatever you do, you're right.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0204par0094	Who are you to train the workers!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0202par0095	But once again, in the past few days, while workers, unionists, unionists, my friends have been struggling with this, the Home Secretary's orders to spray pepper spray on workers, laborers, and lawmakers. I'm going to say this once again: Mr. Home Secretary will taste the pepper spray sooner or later, as any mortal, and we're going to give that pepper gas to the Minister of the Interior, and I'm going to give you all my compliments.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0205par0098	Thank you, Mr. Pine. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 73 to your votes: Those who accept... those who do not accept... Article 73 is accepted. There are three motions on article 74: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose the addition of a statement that will ensure the continuity of the work at work, following the first statement of Article 74 of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently in session. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article (1) of Article 74 of the Common Business Relations Bill, which is currently being discussed. The quality of these measures is specified in a regulation of its scope, the manner of its implementation. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey 74 of the 197 Numbered Bill of the Law. Article (1). We offer and propose that his joke be taken out of the material text. Does the commission agree with this final motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0206par0113	Mr. Secretary, why don't you join the motion? What's in the motion that you disagree? Why don't you join us?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0205par0115	Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0207par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy on the amendment to the 74th amendment to the Law on Public Affairs Number 197. I salute you all. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, with the ban on union movements in our country following September 12th military coup and the redesign of the economic system on the neoliberal policy axis, a serious antidemocratic law was enforced to prevent the development of labour movement and not allow a strong union structure to emerge. It is not surprising, therefore, that this Law, which prevents the organization and freedom of workers, is the longest-lived law brought by the September 12th regime, which maintains its existence without change. Despite this long period of time, under the rhetoric of democracy and freedom, understanding has also marked the new bill. It is not possible for some small and untenable changes to be seen as success and progress. More than that, especially in strikes and collective contracts, obstacles, bans are not protected, but expanded as they are in the air transport area. Dear lawmakers, trade unions are essential institutions of organised and democratic society. The laws set out for union organisation should be for workers and workers, not for employers. Laws in favor of the employer will only undermine the employee's already-designed rights and trade union activities. Although the bill we're talking about brings some partial improvements, it's clear that since the bill began to talk about it, unions have been acting on action outside, and workers are not happy with the legislation they're trying to get out of. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers take the necessary measures to meet the necessary services and needs necessary for the public's daily life. We are well aware of how the most democratic responses and actions in this country have been dealt with widely under the proper measures, and why they have been prevented. Although the next joke is that these measures should not interfere with the strike or the lockout, we feel that the joke should be removed from the bill because of the broadness and the withdrawal of the 1st joke. It's not the right approach to make the administration's powers unlimited against workers who want to hold democratic action, who have to go on strike. Workers have been acting on the streets for days because of this kind of dangerous stuff. If the bill had been met with the unions and their proposals had been taken into account, the workers would not have been on the street for days. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are currently on a hunger strike of thousands of prisoners and prisoners in dozens of prisons in our country. Why don't we hear the screams of prisoners whose basic demands are to be removed from the Imran, so that they can play a role in education, defence in the native language, and in the process of resolving the Kurdish problem we all desire? As of today, the hunger strike that entered its 37th day has become increasingly severe. These prisoners don't want anything to change themselves or the bad prison conditions they live in. Before hunger strikes cause deaths, demands must be considered and steps must be taken quickly. I urge all political parties, especially the government, to be sensitive to this issue. I've expressed it many times before on this bench. The solution to the Kurdish problem is dialogue and negotiation. Other than that, no road will contribute to our country. It is our duty to hear the voice of prisoners and prisoners on hunger strike and to meet their demands for solution. On behalf of the peace plant and the brotherhood of the peoples in our country, I invite everyone to be sensitive about this, and I salute you all again with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0208par0124	Thank you, Mr. Dora. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article (1) of Article 74 of the Common Business Relations Bill, which is currently being discussed. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends "The nature of these measures, its scope, is specified in a code of procedure." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0209par0135	Let the reason be read, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0208par0136	Motive. The property is proposed to be regulated by a regulation to determine what measures the supervisors will take in matters that affect the lives of the people. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose adding the expression that will ensure the continuity of the work at work, following the first statement of Article 74 of the Common Business Relations Act, which will meet its first joke. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government? We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0210par0148	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0208par0149	Motive. Reason: The added statement aims to prevent employers from conducting legal activities that are not intended to prevent a legal strike in the event of strike and lockout. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the 74th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 74th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the 75th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 75th annual draft of the 197 Common Business Relations Act. We offer and propose that the following sentence be added to the last joke of the clause. In this case, the conflict is resolved when the High Referee is established Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and recommend that the statement of the Court shall be replaced by the Supreme Referee Board, which is included in the final joke of Article 75, entitled Terminating the Law on Public Affairs. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0211par0163	Motive.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0208par0164	Motive... Reason: In order to ensure that the collective contract of employment will not be denied the rights and benefits of the collective contract of employment, those who died, left work, and sought to benefit from collective employment agreements with union-related workers, was intended to be concluded by the High Reference Board. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the presidential reason: those who have agreed... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 75th annual draft of the 197 Common Business Relations Act. We offer and propose that the following sentence be added to the last joke of the clause. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends In this case, conflict is resolved by the High Referee Board. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0212par0177	Motive.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0208par0178	I'm having it read. A collective contract of employment is intended to be concluded by the High Reference Board so as not to deprive the workers of the rights and benefits of the collective contract of employment if they want to take advantage of the collective contract of solidarity with workers who have left their jobs and continue to become union members. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 75th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 75th article has been accepted. There's a motion on the 76th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 76th draft of the 197 row bill. We respectfully submit and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. In order to prevent the union's activities, the three outstanding general councils, which will be appointed under the provisions of the Turkish Civil Code 4721, will be re-elected as soon as possible, in order to ensure that the union's property, its interests are protected and its union activities remain intact. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0213par0193	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have been promised to discuss the motion that we have submitted to Article 76 of the Unions and collective contract of employment in 197. The current state of the 76th article, we believe, is in the present state of the bill. If union activities are stopped, the suspension of union activities is expected in Article 76. However, on Article 31/3 of the same bill, if union activities are halted, it is expected to be appointed trustees according to the Turkish Civil Law, and to be taken to the general council as soon as possible by this trustee. Now, these two elements are already in conflict here. We think of these conflicting substances as being the main ingredient, which is more in line with the spirit of the Unions' Law and is more democratic. For him, if union activities are stopped, the union needs to be appointed trustees under the Turkish Civil Law 4721 to govern, protect its property, and prevent trade union activities from failing, and soon the extraordinary general council must be elected and the legal body must be elected. Now, when you do something like this, when you give this motion, it's the way the executives act against the law that stops union activities. Because of their illegal behavior, union activities will be halted, and union activities will be suspended. It's not democratic. Why should collective agreements be halted because of the actions of executives, and why should union activities be suspended? That is why it is necessary to reassemble the general council and re-elect the organs so that the trustees can be appointed to continue these activities as soon as possible. I'm hoping that you will accept this democratic proposal, which is more appropriate to the spirit of the unions. Dear friends, one of the main issues in the Union Act is that there are no job guarantees. Now, I'm a tradesman for years. When Law number 4857 came out after 2003, they thought there was a job guarantee in this country, and they thought they'd go back to work with a judge's guarantee, and it was a very intense demand for trade unions, and after 2003, the unions started organizing. They also began to organize in my city, the baneman, and they were organized in many factories, but do you know what happened after that? I believe we have friends here who are again deputys during the release of Law 4857 in 2003. We've filed extradition cases, the extradition hearings are due in two months, and would you believe, friends, that I've won 100 percent of the cases I've filed there as a union deputy, but unfortunately... is there going to be a five-time extradition suit for a worker, dear friends? That's not why Parliament suggested a solution at that time, nor did the Supreme Court have it. Since he was a member of the union, the workers were laid off five times because of his union activity, five times we won those cases, they started those cases two days at a time, they fired their workers again, and finally workers, after four or five years, had to resign from the unions. In this case, friends, regardless of what the dam is, whether there are no dams in the unions, if there are no job guarantees due to trade unions and union activity, then there is absolutely no way union activities can succeed, and union organisation is virtually impossible to achieve. It also shows that there are 10,400,000 workers -- unfortunately, about 600,000 of them can benefit from collective contract of employment as a union; others can't become members of the union; others can't be concerned that if they become members of the union, they will be laid off. If we really want to come up with a solution to the Union Act here, we need to get a job guarantee first. Without job security, those 10 million workers can't be members of the union, dear friends. We have to look at the basics, or let's say this is the dam, let's say this is the dam. There's no point in saying that. About that, when we interviewed a lot of unionists or our fellow workers at the time, we thought this might happen. They're, of course, a bit of a handful of things, but just like being a member of a tradesman's organization, I think we might be able to solve this problem if the union membership is mandatory. Thank you for listening to me.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0214par0201	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 76th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 76th article has been accepted. There's a motion on Article 77, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 77th annual draft of the 197 Common Business Relations Act. In Article 2 of the article, we propose and propose that the word regulation be changed into a code of conduct. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0215par0211	Motive.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0214par0212	I'm reading the reason: It has been proposed to determine how to keep records and records by a more stable legislation. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 77th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on Article 78, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 78th draft of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently in session, ranked 197. We offer and propose that the clause be changed in the following way. Article 78- (1) According to this Law; A) The five hundred Turkish liras, if their verbs do not require a harsher sentence, are in violation of the fact that they have the conditions to be founding for trade unions mentioned in Article 6 B) The Turkish Lira of ten thousand, if its verbs do not require a more severe punishment, those who have rigged the vote on the 14th article and on the census and transcript of these votes. C) The two hundred Turkish liras for each membership, unless the verbs require a more severe sentence against those who register members in violation of Article 17 and force them to stay members or to resign from membership in violation of Article 19 In violation of Article 26's sixth joke, five thousand Turkish liras. D) Officials of organizations acting against Articles 28's second and third jokes are 1,500 Turkish liras, as well as the amount of donations, as well as the repeat of the verb, E) The five hundred Turkish liras were involved in the illegal strike, and those who continued to strike. f) Although the strike or lockout has been permanently or entirely or partially banned by the court order, 5,000 Turkish liras, if the verbs that do not break the verdict, continue, continue, continue, persist, join, and continue to participate do not require a more severe punishment, G) The seven hundred Turkish liras, if they are involved in the strike or were exposed to the lockout, and those who do not leave the workplace where the strike or the lockout is being implemented and those who force or encourage the workers to do these actions do not require a more severe punishment, đ) Buying new employees without permission in Article 65, seven hundred Turkish liras in connection with each employee he has taken without permission, H) An employer or employer's deputy who employs workers instead of workers who strike in violation of Article 68, and in relation to each employee he receives, the Turkish Lira of 1,500 He'll be punished with administrative fines. The administrative sanctions envisioned above are provided by the Ministry's Employment and Business Institution County Manager, with the grounds specified. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Wolf, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0216par0238	Mr. President, I've been promised a motion on the 78th Amendment. I salute you all. In particular, one of the things in our union life that determines criminal sanctions towards the final provisions, one of the things that will have serious weight in our collective contract, our strike life, but we have tried to bring forward the monetary side of punishments a little bit different than the criminal practices of the past. In Turkey, or Turkey, the lockout is still an element that we will never accept and should not accept with international contracts, but unfortunately it entered our law, but our Parliament missed it when we were about to get a chance to complete this process, to end it. Now, there is a significant increase in punishments for practices in Turkey, but punishment in the same parallel between workers' organisations and employers' organisations. We're suggesting that with the motion we've made, especially from the workers, from the workers, from the workers' point of view, these punishments should be made a little bit more rational and rational. For example, we think that it may not be very practical -- in a practical sense -- for example, to mention such fines based on a certain proportion of minimum wage in the old law -- but it is not possible that the old practice should be continued in a slightly more accurate way, but it is not possible to think that a logic that holds labor organisations and employers and employers in the same position can be applied and fair. For one thing, I'd like to stress that we don't find it very right to recreate legal crimes in Turkey and create new crimes and add a new punishment to some crimes already punishable by Turkish Penal Code or Trade Unions Act. In particular, the unions will follow and follow the regulations concerning the membership records of labour unions with a democratic mechanism. If Turkey has not adopted a cultural agreement with its unions, employers' unions, employers' employers, some of these punishments really have great benefits in reorganising them. Although a fine of 5,000 Turkish liras in labour and employer relations may be a serious sanction for the worker, it would be helpful to reduce such punishment to $10,000 at some points -- in a slightly different way -- as we recommend -- at some points -- to the employee's benefit. In the process of implementing these sentences, it is a constant that we continue by creating a new crime, such as the old practice, without correcting an application that will cause problems, especially if we think that the ministry and, in particular, its municipal administrations are completely artificial, completely motivated by order. So, Turkey... I think both opposition parties in parliament and the ruling party should be able to help organize a proposal that might be in favor of a little more labor, in favor of the labour union, by supporting this motion, and we expect you to support our motion. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0217par0246	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 78th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 78th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 79, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It's the 79th draft of the 197 Common Business Relations Act. We propose and propose that the second sentence of the article be removed from the article text. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0218par0256	Motive.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0217par0257	I'm reading the reason: It is against the spirit of the law that the collective contract of employment and the case to be filed concerning the strike will be brought to trial in the courts where the office is stationed. What's really important is that the courts are in charge of the business cases where the parties of the collective contract are located. Therefore, it is proposed to be removed from the article text. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 79th article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 80, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 80th edition of the Common Business Relations Act in the United States. We offer and propose that the following sentence be added as the fourth joke in the article. (4) "The concept of workday defined in this law refers to the defined working days for public workplaces." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0219par0270	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0217par0271	I'm reading the reason: The definition of workday is used in various articles of the law. In practice, the concept of the private sector and the working day in the public sector differs. There are also very different applications in private sector businesses. Therefore, the interpretation of the times in the law differs. The working-day concept is a subject of debate, according to the Ministry of Labor, whether it is defined by the union or by the employer. The concept of a working day for public workplaces is intended to be objective and clear to everyone in this regard. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 80th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 80th article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 81: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 81st of the Common Business Relations Charter in the United States. We provide and propose that the third joke be added to the clause. "The term "contracts" of Article 19 of Article 19 (b) of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Television Number 6112 have been issued. I'm having the other motion read: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey Article 81 of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently under way, is entitled the provisions lifted from the Constitution. We propose and propose that the title of the article be changed in the form of the amendment and removed provisions, and that the following joke be added to this article. The first joke (b) of Article 19 of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Service of Radios and Televisions No. 6112 has been issued. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0220par0288	Motive...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0217par0289	Motive... Unions are meant to be able to build radios and TVs. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 81st of the Common Business Relations Charter in the United States. We provide and propose that the third joke be added to the clause. Süleyman Çelebi (Istanbul) and his friends "The term "contracts" of Article 19 of Article 19 (b) of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Television Number 6112 have been issued. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mr. Moroglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0221par0303	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, our aim in this motion was to remove obstacles to the public to introduce themselves, inform workers, inform them, inform them, contribute to their own activities. Unfortunately, as it has always been so far, eighty-one motions have been made to correct this law, but in a common manner, yes, there is a right to this motion... As my friend, the Musa Pine MP, has just stated, is going to be rejected because we're faced with enough collective logic and a parliamentary group to oppose the fact that he's a 14 strike spokesman instead of four speakers, but we also know that this motion is going to be rejected, but I would like to give a complete miss to my fellow lawmakers on this occasion. In fact, the biggest obstacle to this, I think, is the fact that there have been several changes in the Constitutional Law of Political Parties, and that all of my fellow lawmakers are not being made, and that they say no to a lot of proposals or yes, maybe not knowing what they're holding hands with, with an order from above. If no significant changes are made in the Political Party Act and the law that allows lawmakers to be lawmakers to be lawmakers are left between the lips of the prime minister or party presidents, no matter how many proposals we make on behalf of the working class, on behalf of workers or peasants, no matter how much important laws we try to pass, all our motions will be rejected by lawmakers who will rise up and fall down, and by the efforts of ruling lawmakers who are in control of the majority of democracy will be rejected. I know it's my duty to make a note of the opposition of my fellow AKP MP friends in front of my friends, who are trying to make a note of history and free the unions here. If we could argue with our AKP MP friends in Parliament as much as we've discussed in the commissions... in small changes in the commissions... because there's a little bit more freedom there. That means that no matter how wide the freedom zones of lawmakers are there, I think we can make laws in favor of the people in the National Assembly, in favour of the workers, or in favour of the Unions Act, which is being discussed today, in favour of the union workers and in favour of the non-union workers being unionists, but the biggest obstacle in the way is to see the MPs, the unions not being free. For him, my greatest wish, if all my fellow lawmakers can provide freedom in Congress, then so can unions and freedom in Turkey. I don't believe you can make the right laws without this freedom. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0222par0307	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 81 to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... Article 81 is accepted. Congressmans, there is now a motion for a new clause violation. As you know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth amendment of Article 87 of the Interior Charter, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but demands to change a clause that is very closely related to the bill or proposal, and will be held as a new clause on which the commission has joined the majority. According to Article 91, the meeting of the Civil Code as a new clause will also be discussed on the motions the commission has made with the majority, and the number of motions laid out in this article can be submitted. Therefore, I will now read the motion and ask the Commission. If the commission joins the motion with only 14 members, I will open the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0223par0314	Invite him in first.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0224par0315	Let them invite us first, sir. Let's take our seats.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0223par0316	They'll all come.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0225par0317	I'm going to read the motion now: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The current 197 rankings are the 81st draft of the Common Business Relations Act. We propose that the following clause be added after the article. Article 1: There can be no application by the State and Ministry to initiate the legal process of closing or punishing the Unional Institutions. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly? We can't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0226par0323	Mr. President, he wasn't invited. Friends are ready here. How does he know without being invited?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0227par0324	How do you know? Maybe we'll go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0226par0325	Mr. President, how does he know? Maybe they'll go to the Commission. I mean, you can't recite it like that. Invite me first. No way!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0228par0327	Now, I've made a statement, Congressman, this isn't the first time we've done this. The Commission has made a majority decision not to participate...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0226par0328	How does he know? You can't decide for me. Maybe I'll go there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0229par0329	He needs to be invited there.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0228par0330	Mr. Commission, invite him.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0226par0331	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0228par0332	I think it's clear that only the majority of you won't come.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0230par0333	No, how does he know?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0228par0334	Here you go. It's clear, Mr. President, that he's not coming.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0231par0336	You call them, they're waiting outside.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0228par0337	No, he's not here. There's no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0232par0338	Yes, sir. There's no need for an invitation. Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0233par0341	Now, since the Commission has not been in the motion for the most part, I'm dismissing the motion. Now, I guess it's clear that our friends who didn't live here won't come even if they're invited.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0232par0343	Mr. President, but the Commissioner can't decide about us without inviting us.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0234par0344	The plan goes up, goes down, sits down. They didn't ask for my opinion, sir, but based on what?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0235par0346	Congressmans, I'm reading here most of the time. Those who want to participate in the majority will get up and go to the commissioner's desks, please...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0236par0348	Sir, but you didn't.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0234par0349	Mr. President, how can I go to the bureaucrat's chair and say, "Get up?" He should invite us.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0237par0350	Mr. President, he was illegitimate, please ignore him.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0238par0351	You're very welcome... Now, I'm withdrawing the motion from the process. Temporal item 1... There are two motions on the temporary item one, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added after the second sentence of Article 1 of the Interim Article 1 of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently being discussed. However, the union shall operate in accordance with the executive board's decision within a month from the date of the release of the regulation in Article 4 of this Law. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose that the draft of the 197 Common Business Relations Law shall be changed in the following way. Interim Article 1- (1) Institutions make the amendments they have to make under this Law in their first general boards after the publication of this Law. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government? We don't agree, Mr. President. Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0239par0366	I...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0238par0367	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0239par0368	Mr. President, my dear friends, this is an important item, a temporary amendment of the First Amendment. They're giving the amendment to the board of directors, and the board of directors will actually exercise the power of the General Assembly and will make the changes they want. Such an important change, we say, let's leave it to the will of the general council, which is involved in the construction of this charter, and let the general council meet, and we want it to make those changes in the first congress. It could be a year or a half, he could do his convention in six months, the unions, let's set them free, but once we hand that power over to the board, the board of directors will be able to change it by combining that authority with other powers, and the general board can make a charter change there against its will. That's our proposal for a change, a simple and simple suggestion. The second thing I'm going to say, my dear friends, is that we've been talking for hours, we've been making a lot of proposals, we're making constructive contributions here, but no matter how much we contribute, no matter how sincerely we say it, it's pointless. In one article, in one clause, the conscience of power has not been established, they have not been independent, they have not been able to use their free will in the most rightful way. So, dear Minister, I think he's busy with other things -- and I especially want to say to Mr. Secretary in this chapter: we have industrialists who know industrial relations, who can identify union space. They really know this process, and they absorb it, but they've never seen a union, they've never seen a union in their life, they don't know what a union process is, they've been involved in this process, and they've contributed to this law. I'm allegedly saying this law would not have been reversed if TİSK, an employer's union in industrial relations, whose name is..... had drafted this law. Again, this law would not have been so bad again had it not been for the unions, whose name is syndika, who have expressed that they are for labour. Here, for the sake of union movement, protection, balances, some of whom received temporary awards, some of whom were caressed by trade unions, some of whom were fed from the existing system, the existing system structure, and for the sake of taking the day and saving, they mortgaged the working class' future, they shot it. If history is to judge them one day, it will be a betrayal. I'm going to put that on the stand as a footnote. So, the heart would desire that if our Labour Minister, the ILO norms, the European Social Condition, could read and define the demands of other unions in this regard and define a free trade union area, the problem would be solved better because this law is now the law of TOBB, which has become the law of the subsidiaries, the law of TUSKON. And to the unionists who contributed to them and gave them this green light, I wish them well. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0240par0375	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added after the second sentence of Article 1 of the Interim Article 1 of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently being discussed. Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı (Istanbul) and his friends However, the union shall operate in accordance with the executive board's decision within a month from the date of the release of the regulation in Article 4 of this Law. Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0241par0385	We agree, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0240par0386	Motive... The management boards have been authorized to make changes in the regulations of the Union's First Amendment (c) of Article 8 of this law under the mandate of the Union to operate. The first statistics to be published according to this Law were intended to be announced according to the workcheque set out by the Ministry's regulations, in case the union governing boards failed to make the amendments during the specified time. I submit to your votes this motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with this motion, I submit to your votes the interim clause one: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on temporary matter 2, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the exchange of Interim Article 2 of the Common Business Relations Act, which is currently being discussed in the following way. Interim Article 2- (1) The Ministry sends lists of members in its records within six months of the release of the regulation specified in Article 19 to workers' unions, workplaces and workers' numbers established in its office. The unions will report their objections to the Ministry within a month. The ministry resolves the objections within a month at the latest. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0242par0398	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0240par0399	Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0243par0400	Mr. President, my dear friends, again with the notary, with the Minister, to contribute to this agreement... a law is now being passed, the law's implementation of the notary will take effect in a year. It's already at a very difficult point with dams and obstacles put in front of the union movement. On the one hand, the cost of resigning from a union and transferring to another union is nearly 200 liras today, $200 will be given in the name of each worker, and the price of being a member of a union -- alone, directly -- is a worker who wants to be a member of this process -- will pay between $35 and $40 a notary fee. In our assessment with the Minister, in the agreement, at least... the Minister said on this stand: "You will see, after the 25th article, we have made very advanced arrangements in other articles, and you will see this. " He told you in this General Assembly, he addressed you. But here, at least, at the same time, like the stock market, it changes every day, I think it changes by the hour -- what TİSK said was yes, and what Turkish-work said was yes, and right-work said yes, and DİSK said yes, and they reached a point in the six-month period where DİSK said, "Yes" and DİSK said, "Yes." Then, I think they went to bed at night... and one of our unions said: let's keep it that way, because that's the only way I can keep the status quo going for another year. There was also a consensus in the arrangement there, in that six-month period, that these notary coins would be paid from the money that was collected under the name. Now, on the one hand, you're talking around here, and then it turns out who's not standing behind these conversations. At least in power, at least in politics, you have spoken here, and you have promised that I will stand behind it. No one has the right to blame the Republican People's Party in that sense if he cannot show courage or courage. Who doesn't keep his word, and one of the most basic indicators of notary is who's not standing up for the will laid out there. Dear friends, here we move forward... to remove the notary. The practice you're screaming for will come into play in a year. Perhaps in the middle of the night, under the pressure of the unions, at the request of one of the unions who wanted to protect that status quo, one night, with the bag of legislation, the application of the Noter will continue. I wouldn't be surprised if an arrangement called "Noter" came to us again, because there were compromises here in order to meet the demands of a union for a day instead of politics. Our involvement in this process, our contribution to this process has been ignored, and after that, you talk all the time, you talk in every matter. What is it that you call us to shout so loudly? You criticize us. Now, I'm truly sorry for the position of a minister who can't get past such a clear, clear, transparent point and can't put political will here, and I condemn it, and with those feelings, I salute you once again with respect, with love.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0244par0405	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 2, those who accept... those who refuse... temporary matter 2 is accepted. There's a motion on temporary matter 3, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the period of a year on the Interim 3rd Article of the Common Business Relations Charter, which is currently in session, should be changed to six months. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0245par0414	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0244par0415	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0246par0416	We did, sir, and there's nothing we can say. Read the reason for that.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0244par0417	All right, I'll get you the alibi. In today's conditions, a year is a long time for new laws. Therefore, the reduction of this period to six months has been proposed. I submit to your votes this motion that I have given you, that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary Article 3: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary clause 3 is accepted. There are two motions on the temporary item four, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the period of a year on the Interim 4th Article of the Common Business Relations Charter, which is currently in session, should be changed to six months. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the following arrangement of the Interim 4th Amendment of the Common Business Relations Charter. The adoption of the union membership of Article 4 of the Interim Article 5 of Article 17 of Article 17 and the withdrawal of the union membership of Article 19 of Article 2 and 4 of Article 19 of Articles 19 of the Union shall be carried out on the e- State gate by the end of the second year, according to the provisions of Articles 2 and 5 of the Law of Trade Unions. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0247par0431	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0248par0432	Motive...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0244par0433	Motive... A two-year period of notary and joint implementation of e-state gate systems has been intended, considering the failures and the problems in the withdrawal of union membership through the e- State gate. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the period of a year on the Interim 4th Article of the Common Business Relations Charter, which is currently in session, should be changed to six months. Emine Dilır Tarhan (Ankara) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0249par0444	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0244par0445	Mr. Tarhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0250par0446	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, technically, it's not my area, so I wasn't planning on talking about it, dear friends, at this time of night. However, I received a pamphlet that was handed out today, the Book of the National Assembly of Turkey's Secretary of the National Assembly. Now, I'm going to go into the detail of the mindset that has prepared this pamphlet as long as I can. But when you read a book about us, especially how humiliating it is to women, you see it clearly on the front pages. It's so sexist.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0251par0449	He has prepared a rotten brain.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0250par0450	A secretary first pointed out that she had to be almost a woman, and she implied it, and she was advised to copy her clothing by looking at people around her, to copy and paste them, to create a style that was appropriate for her here. It occurred to me that I don't want to wear accessories. I don't want to wear accessories. I don't want to wear accessories. I'm talking about accessories. There was talk of a low-heeled pair of shoes. The question comes to my mind: Can't we wear heels, or who can stop us from wearing high heels, whether it's a woman or a female secretary? There's talk of appropriate makeup. Even a woman who needs to get her old make-up back. If he walks around like that, he'll probably ruin his eyes, so he'll even be asked to renew his makeup. Excuse me, there's also a woman who needs to take care of her skin. The question comes to mind: What about men? In fact, it says here that a secretary, a secretary, a secretary, should have confidence in herself. They even put her to the test, to measure, evaluate, and test her self-esteem.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0252par0454	Where does it say that? Where is it?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0253par0455	What's that?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0250par0456	I don't have anything to say. Especially since you're a woman, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to address you in particular. I'm going to try to explain what kind of mentality is this that makes this brochure: Now, if a woman was raped, if she was pregnant, a mindset suggests that she had to give birth; a mind that suggests that each woman should have at least five or three children, a mind that suggests that she should have three children. In fact, this pamphlet, this pamphlet, is the reflection of a feudal idea that always talks about banning, tattoos, house closure, and all that talks about it on this axis. It's an embarrassing reflection and must be collected immediately. In order to ban this prohibitive mentality, Mr. President, I would like to invite all female lawmakers, especially you, to be sensitive to all congressional MPs. I don't think women should be allowed to be insulted about it first.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0254par0459	For years in college, women have been humiliated, you've been silent.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0250par0460	Getting us in line, getting us in line, getting women in line with a militant subconscious understanding... that's the same understanding you're talking about right now. I strongly condemn this notion that it stands ready, but if it serves, it's precious, it's almost uncomfortable, and even though her husband doesn't beat her up, it's inviting, it's inviting, it's putting her into a secondary existence class. I say to all working women, every word written here is an insult, and I say to all women, all working women, that they cannot afford to align us, our hearts, our minds, our shapes, our schematics, our preferences.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0255par0462	Does that include the veil?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0250par0463	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0256par0465	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 4: those who accept... those who refuse... temporary clause 4 is accepted. Congressmans, me and the Court have been informed of something like this at this time. We've never seen the manual, so we haven't had a chance to study it. If there's that kind of approach, we'll have to take a look. Thank you for the warning. Now, there's a motion on the interim item 5, I'm going to read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply the amendment of the current 197 Common Business Relations Law Bill to the following way. Article 5-1 (1) of Article 23 of Article 23 of Article 23 shall be carried out against those who have terminated the contract of employment because they are union managers in the history of publication of the Law. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0257par0476	We can't agree.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0256par0477	Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0258par0478	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I will say the same thing at the beginning of every speech: I condemn the mentality that holds 8 MPs captive from here, and I salute them from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Nothing we say as union law is accepted, so I thought I'd do something different today, make a speech on behalf of the AKP Group. Dear friends, the opposition -- but as you say -- is critical, you work all the time, your success is legendary, all the respected institutions of the world speak highly of the AKP, and I would like to share our success with you by compiling the numbers I've compiled from these institutions with worldwide dignity. Dear friends, we have branded our democracy as hybrid, and in 2011 we were able to bring it down to 88th place between 167 countries in terms of democracy. Together with countries such as Tanzania, Zambia, Senegal and the Philippines, we brought Turkey into part among the free countries. We were able to get 3.89 on a scale of 10 to participate in political activities, and with this note, we finally won first place among the European countries. We put the student, the journalist, the intellectual, the military, the deputy in prison. That's how we got the title of the country that arrested the most terrorists. In 2011, we put Turkey 10 steps back from the previous year in freedom of the press and placed 179 countries in the 148th place; we managed to reduce Morocco, Uganda, and Gambia. I'm doing this for the AKP Group, guys.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0259par0482	Speak for yourself, you can't speak for the AKP.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0258par0483	We blocked more than 15,000 websites for freedom of the press. We stopped the publication of 7 magazines, arrested dozens of journalists; in January 2012, we had the honor of becoming the last to become the 1st in the ranking of press freedom among countries seeking membership in the European Union. The European Court of Human Rights has registered Turkey as the country that has violated most rights since 1987. We've expanded this success by folding it. In 2011, we became the most convicted of 159 cases in the ECHR. Before we came to power, Turkey was number 80 in the development race in 2000, and we had achieved the success of the 85th position in the age of apprenticeship, the 92nd position in the phalanx. Like Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon, we were left behind to fight our formidable opponents. We were able to take the 122nd place among 135 countries in the equality of men and women. We beat our tough opponents here like Qatar. In terms of women's participation in the labour force, we have had the pride of becoming 126 · Global Voices from 135 countries to Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0260par0487	What telemetry company did you take?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0258par0488	In terms of social prosperity, we were able to achieve 75th place among 110 countries and become the most backward country in Europe. In 2011, we raised our current deficit to 80 billion dollars. After our baseball buddy, the United States of America, we succeeded in becoming the world's 2nd most profitable country. In our power, the foreign trade deficit, including 2011, was $500 billion. We've done what hasn't been done in seventy-nine years, we've doubled the 70-year-old current foreign trade deficit. By the time we came to power, all of the republic's governments' foreign debt was 130 billion dollars, and we borrowed 310 billion dollars; in nine years we doubled the external debt 2.5 times. Turkey's debt record was broken during our time. Dear lawmakers, we invented grass, hay, sacrifice imports in this country. We're the ones who got paid with the exceptions. Out of every 100 young people, we have left 22. Turkey has become the world's first country in youth unemployment.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0261par0491	The unemployment numbers are dropping.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0258par0492	The KPSS queues were created during our time. We converted the KPSS to the SS. In the last three years, we've done the scandal instead of six national exams.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0262par0493	You're very successful.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0263par0495	The great success of the AKP. Good for you, what you've done to the country.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0258par0496	More than 3 million people have been wronged by these scandals in our time. As if this was a very important situation, we rejected the main opposition party's motion for research and refused to destabilise. More than 30 teachers committed suicide in the last five years of our power, so we said, "God bless you." Dear friends, I can't help but mention our success with the union. In 2011, we managed to violate the union's rights the most. There's not much to say after our recent success. Dear friends, in our time, we also took a tour of the fascist regime of September 12th, in terms of 12 inmate unionists. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0264par0501	Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit04spe0265par0502	Thank you, Mr. Agha. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary Article 5... those who accept... those who refuse... temporary clause 5 is accepted. I'm gonna take a 15-minute break, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0265par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 11th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will now begin negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 4th place. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 313 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party group, Antalya MP Sadık Badak will speak on the whole bill. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Badak.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0266par0010	Thank you. Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the World EXPO 2016 Antalya Legislature. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, ever since the decree that Botany World EXPO Τ would be held in Antalya, 2016, our people in our city have been getting increasingly excited. In the early 1990s, the idea of Antalya World EXPO, which began with our thoughts on NGOs, was developed with individual zeal in January 2009, after our visit to Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister Mehmet Ali Şahin, who was then our Antalya MP and Minister of Justice, Mehmet Ali Şahin. On behalf of our Prime Minister, Antalya MPs and our people, who have opened the way for Antalya World EXPO, who, from the beginning of the institutional work period, have urged all kinds of support from our President and from our government in this difficult time, sent a warranty letter to international institutions. I'd like to thank the Foreign Minister, who has been very thorough in his diplomatic work for World EXPO Antalya, and the General Directorate for Foreign Affairs and Cultural Relations of The Hague, Paris and Madrid embassies. I'd like to thank our Minister of Agriculture and his organization, who devoted 1,080 per cent of the use of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, Botany Word EXPO 2016 to Antalya, and began their work with great seriousness since the day the coordinator took responsibility for the Ministry. (x) 313 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Finally, I'd like to take the liberty of saying their names, if I may, to thank our fellow citizens, who have supported all the work that has been done in Antalya for nearly 20 years. Between 1993-2012, I contributed to the project of EXPO both individual and institutional work: İbrahim Acar, Mustafa Akadil, Serdar Akçay, Ahmet Altaparmak, Osman Aydın, -hasbelkaderçek, Sadak, Osman Baghdadlıoğlu, Ali Nazim Balcıoğlu, Osman Berberoğlu, Çetin Osman Osman Osman Osman Osman Budak, Cihat Bul, Mustafa Çukık, Talha Çanaş, Ali Çaş, Ali Çandır, Mevlüt Çunoğlu, Saim Çulülülüm Evncilmen, Suleiman, Suleiman, Mustafa Kör, Mustafa Kör, Mustrem Kör, Mustın, Mustım Kafım Kafün, Mustın, Mustın Öğün, Şeğün, Öğün, Öğün, Öğünün, Şün, Şümümünün, Şünün, Şün, Şün İmününün, Önünününününününününününün, Şen, Şen, Şeğen Ömünününün, Şen, Şen, Şeğen, Şeğnününününününününününününününününününününı, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şeman, Şeğen, Şeğn, Şor, Şor, Şor, Şeğn, Şeman, Şeğn, Şeğnünününününününününününününününününün, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şen, Şan Erdı, Şen, Şan, Şan, Şor, Şor, Şor, Şor, Şor, Şor, Names are alphabetized according to his last name. The team of 40 became an EXPO team of Antalya. For 20 years, as a city team, we've been able to reach out to this day, where some of our friends have contributed little, some of our friends far too much, and we've come to this day. I, on behalf of you...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0267par0018	Sadik Bey, didn't the opposition MPs contribute?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0266par0019	I thank them all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0267par0020	You didn't.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0266par0021	I thank them all.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0267par0022	You didn't.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0266par0023	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0267par0024	Didn't Mr. Baykal Bey contribute? Don't!
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0266par0025	Mr. Aslanoglu, here -- if noted -- friends who contribute to Antalya-based work -- in these names are friends from all parties, friends from many trade groups.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0267par0026	Why don't you say them?
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0268par0027	He did.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0267par0028	No, he didn't.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0269par0029	If you'll excuse me, I'm still at the beginning of my speech. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are organizations with the purpose of displaying the value and benefits of these goods, rather than the marketing of the goods of various countries. The culture, history and other national values that countries have are also important to promote. Although it has been seen in earlier years, our world met with its first universal EXPO Τ, the largest industrial world exhibition of its time in 1851, in London, where it is now known as Hyde Park, with 74,000 square metres of dismantling steel and glass material. Until 1933, the World EXPOs were set up by gentlemanly rules and the international legal framework for the World EXPO priests was established by the Paris Conference in 1931, and this year, in 1931, the BIE was established. Some changes were made between 1948 and 1964, and in 1972 they were finalised by the Paris Charter. From 1851 to 1990, scientific and technological developments have been displayed in what we might call the world's first term, the world's expo, the machines, communications, transportation and production techniques, and modern consumption tools. From the 1990s on, they have changed themes, and they have been emphasised on environmental disturbances, climate changes, sustainable health. As a matter of fact, the theme of Milano World EXPO in 2015 is that feeding the planet is energy for life. The candidate theme of our Izmir province has become new roads for a better world and health for everyone. Dear MPs are based in Paris, where only countries can become members. The BIE deals with world fairs in a separate category called international exhibitions. These are long-term organisations, which are not commercially qualified, but have different fields of products, with the aim of training society, which offer different ideas, perspectives, images for the future, which promote harmony and communication among world countries, which contribute to the easier and faster development of relationships between different disciplines. BIE is a member of 160 countries. On 10 September 2004, our country was a member of our 59th government. Anthalya and Izmir have thus opened the way for the World EXPO nomination. Because of our country's emphasis on the issue, our Foreign Ministry has decided to raise the BIE Prime Minister's mission to an ambassador's level, and our ambassador appointed to the Chief Delegation has also been elected Vice President of the BIE General Assembly and President of the Usul Committee. Dear lawmakers, our country has been closely monitoring the other EXPOESTs that have been made in the world so far. Our country's participation is co-ordinated by our State Department. EXPO©s are outside the Foreign Ministry's area of expertise. Since in recent years our country has seen the importance of the EXPO (exPO) because of its very, very development, the creation of an expert organization, the creation of institutional memory, and the setting of coordination rules are needed. Dear friends, the Botanic EXPO (BXPO) began in the Netherlands in 1960, and prior to BIE (BIE), the approval of the International Bureau of Gardens under the name AIPH in Turkish is required. AIPH was founded in 1948 in Switzerland and later moved to the Netherlands. Last month's general assembly also decided to move its headquarters to Antalya. We would like to congratulate all of our colleagues, our delegation to the BIE, our member, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Economy bureaucrats and our ministers. International agricultural fairs are among the aims of AIPH, through botany fairs, to increase the efficiency of agriculture and the use of agricultural products in all sectors, and to encourage co-operation worldwide in professional agriculture. The main goal of botany EXPO©s is to provide sustainable food through plants and to increase the comfort of human life. This year, in Venlo, Holland, the Botanic EXPO consists of four main chapters that fit that purpose. These episodes: One: sustainability with herbal products for people who have to live with severe diseases such as diabetes, cancer, high blood pressure. Chapter two: do not benefit human health by neutralizing carbon dioxide with garden plants. Chapter three: the innovation section where new production techniques are presented and the culture of production and consumption with the world. The application for World EXPO 2016 Antalya was approved on October 2010 at the General Assembly of AIPH, South Korea, and was registered on 7 April 2011 in the BiE, under the signature of our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, by sending a support letter to the EXPO 2016 Antalya Project, which was issued in Paris from 22 November to 23 November 2011. The World EXPO 2016 Antalya process began in 1993 with meetings on the future of our NGOs Antalya, followed by studies in the following years of Hannover Universal World EXPO and in 2005 at Nagoya (Japan) World EXPO studies in 2008, where our professional rooms, civil society organizations, governorship, municipalities, and various World EXPO languages were examined by visiting. On 25 January 2009, as the Antalya EXPO delegation, Mr. President and Prime Minister were visited with support and instructions, replacing individual work until 2009 with institutional work by central municipalities and civil society organisation, which was formed with 36 members and joint budgets by the Antalya World EXPO Assembly in May 2009. On 23 November 2011, the EXPO flag was introduced to our country by institutional EXPO, which began in Antalya in 2009. A week after receiving the EXPO flag from Paris, our Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism came to Antalya on 1 December 2011 and officially launched World EXPO 2016 Antalya studies, and from that date the Antalya project became a World EXPO state project. Dear friends, World EXPO 2016 Antalya - Alania land road, Aksu district, the airport will be allowed to use in the area of 1,086 of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Since the ground has been used for farming development for sixty-five years, it has been decorated with palm trees and various plants that are 20 metres [20 m] long. Tourism provides the advantage of visiting the accommodation centers and its historical and knitting sites such as Aspendos, Perge, Düden, Bullets. Anthalya aims to continue to serve tourism as the theme park after EXPO is finished, with lessons from several countries that have previously organised EXPO, to make the most efficient use of the area of the organisation after EXPO. According to the project, 5 million foreigners and 3 million domestic visitors are expected in six months. With about 8 million visitors, we will have the opportunity to meet the cultures of 100 different countries with the World EXPO, which will significantly contribute to the brand value of our province and the increase of tourism revenues. With new seeds and production techniques developed by our scientists working on agriculture in the time of the EXPO preparation, our country's increased competitiveness in agriculture through its World EXPO 2016 Botany EXPO. Planned investments under the EXPO preparations will be completed, targeted projects will be carried out. Our paths, parks, green fields for EXPO will be rebuilt with a modern and delightful understanding of our city's beauty. Our Ministry of Forest and Water has tendered $320m in discovery-priced Aksu Tea in the area where the EXPO will be organised. Thanks to EXPO, Antalya will be rebuilt, urban transformation projects will be accelerated. Dear MPs, the EXPO 2016 Antalya experiences... in the next 60 years -- the new target our Prime Minister showed our country on September 30th -- is the 2071 target -- in this vision of 2071, we believe we can organise new EXPO Levels in our other cities. We believe that among our cities are Ankara, Konya, Kayseri, Gaziantep, Mersin, Eskişehir, Bursa, Samsun. I think that Konya is no less than Jeosu, of Korea, or Kayseri, of Sevilla, Spain. Dear friends, during the work of EXPO, our trade rooms in Antalya -- with more than 80,000 tradesmen -- will be contributed to the EXPO process of our producers in each area, with the Union of Agriculture Chambers of Turkey -- our farmers, which will be on the board with the bill -- over 5,300,000. The University of the Mediterranean will attend the EXPO preparations with all its units. Our Ministry of National Education aims to promote EXPO studies by training our students on EXPO. Around 30 seed-making companies in Antalya will weigh in on the research on EXPO (EXPO) and provide new and different products. I believe that our high performance in this organization will also be an important reference to the EXPO organizations, where our other provinces will be suitors in the future. I'd like to thank the ruling and opposition party MPs, who have supported the bill in the process of negotiations by the law, both in the Plan and Budget Commission, and in the steps outside the Commission, with their opinions and criticism. On this occasion, I wish the law to our country, to the EXPO, to Antalya. I'd like to invite you all to Antalya during the EXPO 2016 process. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0270par0055	Thank you, Mr. Badak. Mr. Aslanoglu, you've entered the system. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0271par0058	Mr. President, whether Mr. Badak says thank you or not, we're proud of Antalya, we're all proud of how the EXPO was built in Antalya.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit05spe0270par0059	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-10-18sit06spe0270par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 11th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 313. Commission? No. It's been postponed. On Tuesday (October 23, 2012), it is 15 p.m. to discuss other audit issues in order with oral question motions. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
