tbmm-2012-02-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. Members of parliament, before starting the talks, we must take a closed session session for the closed session summary of February 16, 2012, to be read according to Article 71 of the Interior Charter. Therefore, I'd like to ask the MPs and those who may be present at the General Assembly Hall to clear the hall, except for the sworn stenographer and sworn officers. After the summary of the report is read, the open session will be held and talks will continue. I'd like to ask your supervisors to assist in this matter and inform the presidency after the hall is cleared. We will now proceed to closed session.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0001par0001	I am opening the Third Session of the 669th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey after the closed session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Mr. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, who has asked about the problems in the Karaburun region of Ulupınar-Cıralı district of Antalya Belt district. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0002par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, I have made a promise in the village of Ulupınar in the District of Kemer, Antalya, about a two-week development on the coast of Çıralı. Dear friends -- it's been widely in the national and local media -- unfortunately, we're facing a natural massacre. We're looking at another of the Justice and Development Party's run-of-the-mill practices. I'll brief you on the basics in no time, and I'd like to bring you to your attention. There are some dates in between, and I'm going to ask you to pay attention to them, so that you can see how quickly the decision is made. The project was first evaluated by the Council of Culture and Tourism, and was approved by the Forest District on July 18, 2011 as its place of employment. After that, we're looking, ten days later, it was immediately assigned to the Forestspor Club, which is the same day that a private company signed a sponsorship contract, which is July 28th, ten days later, all within ten days of that, and you know there are decrees in the law that we've all been against before this. These powers were arranged under Code 644, but they didn't seem to be there for a new law order, when was that? August 17, 2011, a month later and two weeks after the sponsorship agreement. And do you know what they did with that change? The General Directorate for the Protection of Natural Beings and a new General Directorship and powers have been transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. I'll make this brief. Why? Because, first of all, the Council of Culture and Tourism didn't approve, and then you look at the reconstruction of the project, and then -- once you're connected to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the Regional Commission for Protection of Nature has allowed this to be a business area, and it allows that structure to be built in the field of employment. Now we're looking at Mr. Günay -- he's not here -- he's made the necessary statement, he says: "We're past responsibility...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0003par0015	He's here, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0002par0016	Is he here yet? Welcome, Mr. Secretary. I was just thinking about you, Mr. Secretary, so I'm sorry you weren't there when I started. Mr. Günay says that the part that concerns us has been removed, and first of all, we didn't allow it, and the project didn't suit us, and there was intense construction, and the decision made by that board. Now, in the meantime, the Governor has an explanation, so I gave him the same day off, the same day as the sponsorship contract. I have all the documents, I can give them to my friends who want them. Here is the amendment to the KHK. It's moving so fast, it opens up a big loot. Now, if we hadn't experienced this example, maybe we'd all learned about nature's rain, as the first victim of this KH44, in our own constituency, and the sensitivity of our citizens, through the sensitivity of our NGOs. What will come next? I'm curious. So you're looking at it in 15 days, and suddenly, before a month and a half later, a new arrangement and board authority is transferred to another ministry. So, what happens? We're getting confirmation right now. So there's a serious problem here. Now, on these events, people stand up and they get excited, and this place gets built, and I'm not getting on the gossip side, I'm just pointing out to you what's being opened up or opened up with the arrangements. Dear friends, they're applying to the Governor, and there's an explanation, he says: "Sir, this is already a football field, what's here? There's no football field there, there's no hotel." I mean, either they gave us some false information. Then he fixed it, and for now, he's demanding a cease and desist. We're stopping him for now until he's done. That's what they wanted. The citizen filed a lawsuit to build this place. This is our Minister here, they know very well, because they both know that there are international contracts on this, there are Bern Conventions, there are Barcelona Conventions, and there's a generalization on this. So there are two international contracts on national real estate and conservation of natural areas, and the Ministry has a generalization, and contrary to all of that, it's being attempted to build it under the name of a sponsorship agreement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, nature is being slaughtered. He's the first victim of this Kira KHK. His ministers wish that Turkey would be united in maintaining their beauty and that all ministers would be opposed in co-ordination, as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0004par0026	Thank you, Mr. Günal. On behalf of the government, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Mr. Veysel Eroglu. Here you go, Mr. Eroglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0005par0031	Mr. President, my esteemed deputies, I salute you, sir. I have been promised to answer Mr. Günal's particular non-responsive speech about the Belt-Transport place. But you know today, February 24th, the 94th year of the liberation of Tripoli from enemy occupation, I hereby celebrate the day of salvation and freedom of all the Tripolins. Here is the spirit of our martyrs, who fought really hard from seven to seventy, and who willingly sacrificed their lives to gain their will, I pray for mercy from God, sir. Now, of course, for once, about the Belt-Transgress site, let me make one particular point: when this matter came to me, I immediately assigned the Director General of the Forest to stop it and because this came to me with an e-mail message. Later, the postal messages became concentrated. This was definitely stopped by the Ministry, and the OGM inspectors were sent to investigate the matter. As a result of the investigation...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0006par0034	When was he stopped by the Ministry, Minister?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0005par0035	The day I heard from the Ministry, I stopped about five or six days ago.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0007par0036	The important thing is that he's been stopped.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0005par0037	Here's the thing. I'll give you the good news for once. But we've had a rough look at this place. After the OGM inspectors, I'll also provide detailed information. Our whole intention is to protect these areas, and you know that I've established centers for rehab in many places, working with universities. So, what is this place? Let me fill you in on him. I've found the mesir site, the sea turtle nesting site, the first-degree natural site, the Beydağs, outside the National Park, and about 200 meters from the water line, where the caretta caretta turtles are located in the buffer zone except in the first and second protected zones that are separated from the nesting and hatching zones. Of course, here's the thing that I've been able to emphasize before: that once we've examined this place, this place has been uncontrollably your friend -- even some of the people who have come here to rent it and take money from people who come to use it without our knowledge -- look, I'll tell you that. Some of them are making the real apocalypse, right or wrong, but then, at least you have Mr. Şandir with you to prevent uncontrollably use of the dense visitors' space, who knows -- it's registered as a C-type mosque. But, of course, according to the 2886 State Contraction Act, there was a ten-year tender, and he won the Forestspor. Of course, here's the thing: there's a report that the Ministry of Construction has not received any confirmations or confirmations to other ministries, that they've crossed some lines, but the inspectors...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0008par0040	It's on the county boards, it's not coming to the Ministry, there are institutions passing through to you, Mr. Secretary, they're giving you approval.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0005par0041	Okay. So right now, in this case, the Director-General of the Forest is examining the inspectors, and they're in position for investigation. But let me put it this way: this place has already been stopped, and the inspector will decide according to his review. So let me recap, of course, and you've stressed that there were, of course, sitters in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism before, natural sitters and so on. Sir, we've already agreed here, Mr. Secretary. The Ministry of Culture and Tourism has nothing to do with natural sites, its archaeological sites and cultural assets, of course, will belong to the protection boards, but from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which, of course, has already been removed from the Ministry of Environment and Forestry in the past. Later, in the framework of the new formation, of course, especially archaeological sitters, their cultural presence remained entirely in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, on the other hand, the planning, the planning, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, so all planning, control, control, 1/100. In the meantime, the State Department of Environment and Urbanization was the decision to announce new natural sites while they were being planned, but the protection will be carried out by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, which I hereby present to you as an explanation. My respects, sir. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0009par0046	Thank you, Mr. Eroglu. You have fulfilled Mr. Shandir's request, he said for ten or five minutes, but he spoke for six minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0010par0048	That's better, that's better.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0011par0049	Mr. President, I have a brief statement to make.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0009par0050	Mr. Günal, I give you my word on the 60th Amendment after three off-the-top conversations. I mean, Mr. Secretary's here anyway, he can't answer, you just have to keep him informed. Therefore, the second word now rests with Mr. Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu, who wants to address the February 24th anniversary of Tripoli's liberation. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0012par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have taken an off-the-book promise due to the 94th anniversary of our Tripoli's rescue from the occupation. On this occasion, I salute you, esteemed MPs of our great House. Tripoli has been an important city in every period of history for its geographical and strategic location. Its presence at the junction of both the Asian-European transport network and its presence on the east-west migration road on the Caucasus have brought with it attempts to control the region. As a result of this strategic thought, Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror conquered Istanbul and ended the Byzantine Empire and took over the Kingdom of Komnenos in 1461. As it is known, in the First World War, Britain and France had agreed to leave the coast of the East Black Sea to Russia, except for Erzurum, Van and Bitlis, with the Petrograd Protocol, which they had done for the purpose of sharing the Ottoman Empire in the First World War. Under this treaty, the Russian army entered Tripoli on April 18, 1916, following various resistances, starting forward operations to take over Tripoli. Over the past two years from this date to February 24, 1918, Turks left their homes and headed west to emigrated to their homes, burned to the ground and looted on February 24, 1918, after paying heavy prices. In the past two years, however, people have tried to save their lives by fighting hunger, poverty, and epidemics, and have traveled hard to West Anatolia, particularly our provinces of Giresun, the Army, Samsun, Amasya, the Tokat. This journey has been a subject of communications and songs. The songs of our grandmothers are still sung in our locals and in our country. My mother and my beloved are in the care of Hakk. Oh, this jihad is bending my back now. Members of parliament, the reason for the anniversary of the liberation of Tripoli and our other provinces is not to produce new enemies today because of events in the past. The goal is to remember what happened in the past, learn lessons, and never see such developments again. It is clear that we need to be more careful these days, especially when our world is being restructured by global power centers, and some plans for our country and region are reflected in the public. In order to read these developments correctly, the only source we can apply is history. Therefore, we must keep our memory alive. The state of the Republic of Turkey is founded on national sovereignty and the understanding of full independence. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, founder of our republic, bequeathed this to us by saying, "Peace in the land, peace in the world." Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are February 24th, the 94th anniversary of our Tripoli's liberation from the occupation. On this occasion, while the memory of our saints who left this land as a home to us is bowed down with respect and mercy and gratitude, our province of Tripoli, which has a population of 757,353 and is waiting to become a major city, ranked 38 percent to 28 percent in the unemployment ranking. In the last year, 6,361 people have emigrated and 61,000 people have been added to the number of poor in the last year. I congratulate you on the 94th anniversary of the tradesman's non-fitting, animalism, the loss of the nut's value, the narrowing of agricultural areas, 150,000 people's performance, the rising unemployment rate, the constant migration of our beautiful immigration province, the 94th anniversary of the invasion of Tripoli, the great assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0013par0071	Thank you, Mr. Canalioğlu. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Ağrı MP Halil Aksoy, who asked for the appointment of World Language Day on February 21st. Here you go, Mr. Aksoy.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0014par0076	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers on February 21st, World Mother Language Day. As it is known, UNESCO adopted February 21st as International Mother Language Day in 1999, and each year from this date it is celebrated with various events in the countries. The native language is a phenomenon that humans have from birth and naturally, which gives you personality. This phenomenon is human, philosophical, divine, legitimate and legal. Scientifically, language feeds thought, thought feeds language. According to UNESCO data, many languages around the world are in danger of extinction. The number of mother languages at stake in Turkey is 18. Counting several of these, it includes Lazca, Circics, Abhazca, Romanca, Greek Pontus dialects. Each one of them is also in danger of extinction. Languages outside of Turkey have been banned due to assimilation policies in Turkey that have been going on for nearly a hundred years. That's common knowledge. These assimilationist policies continued with various versions during the AKP administration. Assimilation is a crime of humanity, as the Prime Minister stated in Germany in 2008. Destroying languages means destroying people, people who speak those languages. However, the same Prime Minister labels those who ask for education in the main language as the separatist, and the subject of education in the mother tongue is our red line. It is not possible to try to assimilated them by handcuffing their mother tongue, by banning them, by disdaining them, by insulting them, by humiliating them. For their mother tongue is their honor, their honor, their reason for existence. The people also knew how to rebel, holding on to their values, despite their dignity, despite persecution, oppression, banning, and denial of all kinds. The prevention of the use of the native language affects all members of the community in different dimensions, but the most undisputed way of communicating with its environment is to impress children with their native language. The child whose native language has been banned is known to be doomed to failure. Prohibition of the native language also means dulling the child's abilities, preventing the child's human development because it takes language to think, to think, to produce it. A boy who can't speak his own language, who can't write, who can't sing songs, who can't read poems, is a child whose life has been stolen. We pride ourselves on being the only country in the world to give their children a holiday. In praise, we are the only country that opposes the education of millions of children in their native language, Turkey. The government's Speaker and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bulent Arinc, expressed that education in languages outside of Turkish can be done in a speech, and in another speech, he spoke words that would mean something other than Kurdish, where 40 million people spoke. While expressing our sadness as a nation, we would like to remind Mr. Arinc, that there has been a language of education and teaching in Kurdish, Iraq, from primary education to university in the Federe Kurdistan region for many years, as well as an official language in social and political life. Three universities still teach Kurdish here. In both the former and new Iraqi Constitution, Kurdish was considered the second official language with Arabic. In addition, many universities in Europe also have Kurdology chapters, meaning that there are thousands of works written in both classical and modern styles in Kurdish language and literature. Dear lawmakers, native language education is a right; it cannot be sacrificed to any politics, it cannot be negotiated. The 40th article of the Constitution, the biggest obstacle to education in the main language, is now meaningless. In the new constitution, the right to education in the native language must be secured. As I end my words, I celebrate the world's Mother Language Day of all the peoples with my native language, Kurdish. ..... [[x]] I'd like to greet the General Assembly one more time.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0015par0092	Thank you, Mr. Aksoy. Mr. Metiner, please.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0016par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. And I would like to share my discussions on languages on February 21st because of the Mother Language Day: Our Bible says that it is one of God's revelations that your languages and colors are different. It is not acceptable in the name of mankind or democracy, if any language is considered to be a barrier to the free development of its language, if some language is to eliminate its differences. All the native languages of this land are respectable to us. No mother tongue has the advantage over another. States can have a formal language, no state language. Because the political device we call the government is the state of all citizens, whose native language is different.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0017par0100	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0018par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has left, by the way, you said it cannot be separated. But: I was going to tell him a little something: we thank him for confiscating his case. Mr. Minister of Culture and Tourism said that he himself would be a follower of the issue, but here is the approval of the Department of Forestry units, the decision of the relevant chief of operations to refuse, the decision of the Council of Culture and Tourism, and again the decision of the National Parks General Directorate to refuse. He's the deputy director of the forest district, vice-principal commissioner of the last approved board. So when the board changed its structure, it was suddenly approved, and we drew attention to it. Hopefully, with the support of our Minister of Culture and Tourism, there will be a structure there that will protect the environment, nature, and we will thank them, on behalf of the people of Cerian, on behalf of the Anthalians. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0019par0105	Mr. Chancer... (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0020par0108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, am celebrating this special day for myself and the National Movement Party Group and its community. The day of salvation is not appropriate; it is an insult to the people of Tripoli; it is an insult to the people of Tripoli. For those who dared to invade our land, our people in every part of our land, have taken their liberty, their sovereignty, their honor, and their enemies out of their homeland. This is a day of victory, and I offer to celebrate it as a day of victory every time. And from here, on behalf of the National Party of Actions, I celebrate this day of victory for all of the Tripolians, and to all of our martyrs, I offer my blessings and my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0019par0110	We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "In order to develop sea passenger and cargo transport between the coastal provinces of our country and to determine the measures needed to be taken to compete with the countries of the world," we propose and propose the opening and opening of Parliamental research under the Articles 104th, 104th and 105th of our Constitution, as stated below. Our country is surrounded by three sides of the sea in the Mediterranean basin, where 30% of the world's shipping is held. The streets of Istanbul and Çanakkale, which sail from the Black Sea to the open seas, are dominated by our country. Turkey's land borders are 2,875km long, and the coast length, including islands, is 8.333km long. The number of provinces on the coast of the beach is 28, and there are 39,253,282 people in these provinces, which correspond to 54 percent of our population. In view of all this data, it is thought that our country is a naval country, but in reality very few of the country's population are interested in sailing. On the other hand, neighbouring countries, whose population is less than our country's population, have a far lower share of the world's shipping. Today, 90% of the world's trade volume is made by sea. In this case, the shipping industry is the backbone of the world's trade. The Turkish-owned sea trade fleet receives around 1% of the world's sea trade volume with 1,156 ships and 15.3 million DWTs. An additional share of the world's shipping trade will contribute substantially to the country's economy, since the business volume of sailing is expressed by very high financial values. The development of the marine sector will affect the development of the sector's side branches, such as spare parts and shipyards, so it will contribute to employment. It is cheaper to travel by sea than other means of transportation due to the lack of passenger transport, road construction and maintenance costs. Another advantage is that at one time a large number of passengers and thousands of tons of cargo can be carried to distant distances. Passenger transport in our country is not very popular except for specific lines such as İstanbul-Karaedeniz, İstanbul-Izmir, İstanbul-Bursa (Mudanya), İstanbul-Yalova, İzmir-Akdeniz, İzmir-Italy. Given that more than 50% of our population live on the coast of the sea or in coastal cities, a potential passenger presence in our country is a driving force for investment in the shipping industry. It will also have a good chance that transportation will be cheaper and cheaper than other means of valuation. Over 25 million tourists come to our country in a year. Most tourists spend their holidays in tourist destinations in the Mediterranean and Aegean region. Due to a safe and unrelenting journey, sea travel between the provinces can also be a choice for tourists who come to our country. In terms of tourism, a new marketing product will be introduced into tour programmes. In the early years of the founding of the Republic, Ataturk was able to raise "the most beautiful and geographical and three sides of Turkey, with its industry, trade and sport, and the most advanced marine nation. We need to know how to take advantage of that ability. We need to think of the sea as the great Turkish nation, and we need to do it soon," a fact that we are far away from the promise. In order to determine the reasons and consequences of all these problems, we propose the establishment and establishment of the Parliamentary Research Commission under Articles 98th, 104th and 105th of the Constitution, in order to determine the measures that must be taken. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Ankara]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 12) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Scholarship]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Manisa]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the inequality of opportunities created by private classrooms and to determine the measures to be taken, our Constitution is 98 and the Constitution is 104 and 105. We offer and offer to establish a parliamentary research commission according to the clauses. In our education system, the existing supply-talep imbalance is mandatory for primary education, secondary education, higher education, and selection and placement exams. As a result of our educational system, the request for private lessons of parents and students to get more successful results in the central placement exams is met by tutors, private tutors, and even illegal private classrooms. Private classrooms are more common in countries where there are no private classrooms and other institutions in many countries without exams for transitioning to a higher education level. About 1,500,000 candidates have applied for the university exam in recent years, and only a third of them are placed in an educational institution. Of the nearly 1 million candidates who have taken the primary exam, only a quarter of them are eligible to register at the secondary school institution. Numbers show that only 35 per cent of those who want to study high education and 25 per cent of primary school students who want to study high school. More than 60,000 teachers and 20,000 staff work in private classrooms approaching 4,000 in our country. More than a million students continue to attend private classrooms. The average is 2,000-2 of over a million students attending private classrooms. Payment of $500 is a two-two-and-a-half-billion-dollar-a-year industry. In addition to preparing our students for exams, the classrooms improve the quality of education and support knitting training. In fact, they've become almost alternative institutions to basic education. Private classrooms are considered to be institutions that create opportunity inequality in education because of their paid education. The belief and fact that students who go to the classroom are much more successful than students who do not go to school strengthens the claim of an inequality of opportunity. Our parents, who feel that their child will not be able to win exams through school education, are looking for a way to send their children to the school, even if their financial resources are inadequate. The inequality of the classrooms also reduces the ability of poor family children to find a good job with good education and to cross classes. One of the great achievements of our Republic is the way of education and the movement between classrooms is reduced by the homeroom system. Private classrooms accept successful students for free or low wages for legal obligation and welfare purposes, but they do not eliminate the inequality of opportunity, although it does not reduce the inequality of opportunity. Our children, who would be much more successful if they had enough education, are wasted because their families do not have enough resources. For all these reasons, we have 98 of our Constitution and 104 of the Institution and 105 of the Constitution to investigate the inequality of opportunity created by private classrooms and to determine the measures to be taken. We offer and offer to establish a parliamentary research commission according to the clauses. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[Inconceived]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kastamon]] 20) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our Constitution is 98. Our drink is 104. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully provide a research commission in our country to address the problems of small animal breeders, in view of the difficult and bad economic conditions in which small animal breeders are now moving quickly towards the point of end, to determine the measures and proposals for solutions to this sector. We all know how important agriculture and especially animalism are to the economy of countries and the prestige of other countries. In agriculture and animalism, it is essential for self-sufficient countries to avoid being dependent on the outside. Especially when it comes to living in rural areas, the subject of small animal breeding, which is starting to disappear these days, needs to be put under the radar. Today, livestock and agriculture have come to an end, given that our country once had 70 per cent of the population of agriculture and livestock. Advanced countries value livestock and agriculture. We have to use agriculture and animalism properly. If you neglect agriculture and animalism, I'm afraid you'll become as dependent on the outside as you are today. One of the key criteria for determining countries' levels of development today is the amount of animal products consumed per person. Man must consume one gram of protein a day for each weight. At least 1/3 of this should be covered by animal-based proteins. In developed countries, the amount of protein per person is 102 grams, and 70 grams of that are animal-based proteins. In our country, 84 grams of protein per person has dropped, but only 17 grams are animal-based proteins. In recent years, almost all of our regions of small animals have been dwindling, but on the other hand, the proportional distribution of species is increasingly low. In the early years of the Republic, the presence of sheep constitutes about 53% of our animal existence, while in recent years, this rate has risen to 80%, and then has dropped back to 50%. The total production of meat from sheep appears to have increased to 33.90 percent in 1985. However, over the next 10 years, this rate has decreased by about half to 16.46 percent. There have been similar reductions in milk production. A reduction in the production of the leaf is expected later to be increased in 1985, when animal parts are to the highest level. These figures clearly show that in the total production of meat and milk, the share of sheep is getting smaller and smaller. This decline has become more evident between 1985 and 1995. At this time, the number of sheep dropped to less than 50% from twenty years ago. Although our sheep's existence has decreased in numbers, it is evident that sheep and goats must be improved, given that the country's population has increased over the years. In our country, the general structure of our sheephood today is that both our government, the people and the organizations who are involved in the science of this work, and our growers. In particular, the ban on goat breeding in many places has resulted in the destruction of some of the world's previously famous goat species. The new generation recognizes the Ankara goat only by seeing its sculptures in parks. Small animalism, such as migration from rural to cities, the use of existing meres, such as the cost of bait prices in winter, or even the lack of adequate shepherds, is appropriate to open Parliamental research on measures and solution proposals, such as the government's immediate examination of domestic producers, not providing the necessary support for meat imports. [[Mersin]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] 10) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Manisa]] [[Scholarship]] [[Erzurum]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Kastamon]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] 21) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place, in accordance with the requirements for ratification of the Organisation for the Islamic Conference. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report on the Co-operation and Approval Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea, which is in the 3rd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approval of Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan in Health and Medicine Industries. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the UNDP-Istanbul Special Sector Centre for International Development (IICPSD) within the United Nations Development Programme in the 5th place, with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission Report, which is ranked in the 6th place. Government? Here. Commission? Here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with 128 rows. Congressmans, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. İstanbul MP Sergiyya Önder, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu on behalf of the People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Nur Serter on behalf of the People's Party Group; İzmir MP Mustafa Moroğlu on behalf of the members of İzmir MP Mustafa Moroğlu, İstanbul MP Ismet Uçma. The first statement belongs to İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder (Serayya) on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Mr. Commander, your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0323	Mr. President, valued members, this state of the law contains an important update. Both the amendment proposals made by opposition parties and the objections were partially taken into consideration. In this sense, I would like to start by saying that we generally find this law to be positive, which is a compilation of the needs of the age. Culture is called all of what we add to what's in nature, you know, the sum of all of that. I'd like to say something about where we are at this point. It's all the stuff we added. In that sense, in fact, there is no need for protection or protection. It should only be limited to regulation of the field's needs, but that's not the way we see it, and that's not just what I'm going to say to the current government, but since the republic's establishment, culture is generally considered a chore, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry. It is viewed as a chore because there is an oxymoron situation, called the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which is entrusted to a ministry of two very distant areas. To understand how grave this is, we can think of it as: "As irrelevant as the ministry of culture and the Ministry of Internal Affairs seems to be, it is as irrelevant when it is called culture and Tourism. Each is two very important areas within itself, and culture at first is too important to be entrusted to a ministry with another area. And yet... On this occasion, he needs to pass a film law. It's still not a legal arrangement in our country. The fee and copyright distinction are still mixed in both legal legislation and public perception. Artists, people who deal with copyright in this sense, are in a lot of trouble. Let's give her credit before she kills him. Our Minister of Culture is sensitive to this matter. That's what we expect from all other political parties and representatives, a joint study, a film law for this country, and a legal guarantee of the distinction between copyright and fee. He had a trial before, but not before 1995. Why not before 1995? At the time, the company that produced the biggest production of televisions had the right to use these films with almost a kilo, and they turned them on television without paying off artists, writers, music producers, directors, producers, producers. The Minister also has good intentions and promises, and as other political parties, if we agree on this, our country will have a film law. And when I go to my colleagues next semester, I have something to say and a face to look at. (x) 128 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Speaking of soap operas, movies, televisions, I'd like to point out that Mr. CHP MP Nur Serter, and I have had many intense, heavy discussions in our television and writing. It's possible that if we write down our worldviews, we won't be able to find an intersecting coordinate that we'll meet, but it's committed a major immorality. I consider this immorality to be an obligation to expose and condemn from here. Because people who claim to be Democrats need to have a concern about being consistent. I wish the same consistency to Mr. Nur Serter. Now, to name a character in a television series after a woman's MP, to name a character who lives on sex work, to name an opposition MP who's not going to take the heat, but where do they get the nerve? One, inadequacy. So you don't have an artistic infrastructure when you're looking at that kind of cheapness. Nur Serker's ideological mentality and its codes can be criticised or even condemned in a work of art, but giving that character his name directly gives away your mental code, one, shows how miserable and miserable you are about it, two. So, why are they doing this? In this government's time, we're looking at this government's ten-year process, is it able to raise one culture, do they remember themselves with it? Is there an artist, we've taken over this artist, this artist, in our time and our view of the world. And that's how it's universal or given up -- something like this on the scale of Turkey... I'm looking, Congressmans, you have two productions. One is honey companies. Today on TV, honey companies are everywhere you turn. The other is construction companies. Whatever paper you open, I mean, it's the biggest production you've ever seen. They're bringing in honey from China to $7, $25... and the quality of the honey that comes in is a lot of water! In our country, they sell honey, which is naturally acquired and sold for about $100, at $25 a kilo, and all televisions are occupied by it. We're thinking about something that costs roughly $7, which is actually an explanation for 18 liras of this intense advertising. Besides that, there's a construction firm. There's a lot of running around. I want to say their names and advertise. Well, these incompetent men don't realize that the rich people created by this power: you're not yet rich, and so is the owner of this television. That's what I'm saying about the broadcast group he owns. There's a time-share deed, a trustee with your power. This country has seen so much wealth, but none of them have ever had a deed, they've always had the right to time-share, they've gone with the government they came from. Tomorrow you will go, and the end, and the shame that you have done, will be on your forehead as a stain of shame. We said, "Culture," we said, "Television." Let's go a little bit further from that area. A public - not only Nur Serker - is the victim of this - is constantly humiliated by television shows. There's been a lot of tradition. These are all the characters, who are always, you'll see, Kurdish with the accent, who are the most dishonest, the lowest, the most sinister, the most sinister things in the world. When you say "religious," the shooter speaks Kurdish, speaks Kurdish in Kurdish accents, speaks Kurdish accents when he says "thiefs," and speaks Kurdish accents when he says "shouts." You have no right to insult a people this much. For example, I expect Mr. Serter to show a great deal of sensitivity in this regard. Just until yesterday, how the headscarfed people were shown as cartoon types, and we could say for this or for myself, that I was doing rebellion and insurgency at that time, and today, women, especially Kurds, are doing the same kind of cross-referencing, humiliating arm. The same way gay people are showing it in a cardboard-type way, in the perception of this nation, it's just to humiliate or have fun. That's what other ethnities are like. When you look at it, the Armenian traitor, Jew loan shark, Circezian traitor, and it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and You collectively rejected power and opposition, and I would like you to reread that draft law and see again on this occasion what you said no to. When I say culture, my friends, language is no different. You know, yesterday was UNESCO's World Mother Language Day, and this United Nations organization has made such a decision to deal with the use of fragile, exhausted languages in the world, as well as the protection of those who exist. There's also a national commission in our country: the UNESCO National Commission. They also have websites, where they announce their activities. Academics, members of the ministry -- I know you're a foreign member, I think there's a member of the National Education -- there's only one member of the NGO. We're entering the website of this National Commission, what about Earth's Mother Language Day? There's this -- I looked before I gave the speech -- there's an announcement on the World Radio Day of February 13 in the languages in which UNESCO has identified it. Why? That's because Zulfüyar will touch you! When you say the mother tongue, God willing, there is still debate in this country, where we come from, whether a people's native language is civilized or barbaric, how sad it is. That's a lot heavier than pulling and shooting him in the forehead. Just a little empathy. If anyone comes to the Turkish lawmakers here, you must know whether your language is civilized or barbaric or not. Whatever you might feel, the Kurds feel so uncomfortable with their own language being investigated in the number of barbarities or the number of levels of civilization. Because of Mother Language Day, I give my regards and congratulations to all the languages and people who speak these languages in this country, especially in Kurdish, in Circica, Zazaca, Georgian, and fragile, who are about to die -- a hundred years from now, the measure of this child will speak this language -- and to all the languages and people who speak these languages. We said, culture... the government's view of culture is troubled, and we have nothing but Mr. Minister of Culture on this, we really don't, and it's a sad thing, and I'm not saying it to be polemic. There's a matter of Mount Nimrod. Mr. Aslanoglu isn't here, is he? Let's touch the Malatians a little, and if Aslanoglu is here, let me be more modest! Now, Malatiah is in favor of Mount Nemrod. It's a campaign that's been running for quite some time. I consider this kind of historical and cultural heritage as being listed on the list of world heritage in 87, except for the national commission in our country -- by UNESCO, which I think is the common property of humanity, but Malatya is looking at it, as if it had such a great cultural knowledge, such consciousness and consciousness, like a city of Nemrut. Friends, not long ago, four or five months ago... I'm going to tell you about two cases of Malatya, here I am condemning the Adıyaman MPs, especially the Deputy Leader of the Group, without Salih Firat, and without the CHP MP, no one is going to bring this up here.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0022par0340	We don't do politics on Nemrod; they belong to Adıyaman.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0341	If it's Adıyaman, you'll come out and say it. If it's Adıyaman, you'll tell him.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0022par0342	Adıyaman is his; Adıyaman is his.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0343	Look, they'll take it away from you, you won't have a face to go home to!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0022par0344	The deed is Adıyaman.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0345	It's the common heritage of humanity. So, what's Malatya doing? Before that, let me give you an example of late history. Four or five months ago, a band, a stranger... there are street performers like this, friends, they travel the world. Veli Agha is here too, I forgot about him! Now, look, call from YouTube, the Malatian Police Department's street band, and watch the exemplary scene. These street performers make music on the street and then move on with the public's good faith and travel the world. As soon as they get their instruments out, they're on top of the police. They don't speak English, so here's how the police do it: they do it with their hands, they do it with their instruments, and then they do it like this. The approach to Malatya is limited to this. It's no shame he doesn't speak English, but you take a friend who speaks English with you. Then the public tells the police why they fired them. He says, "Ya, the crowd gathers, God willing." It's not my invention, it's not my slander, it's on YouTube, if you open it on Facebook, you'll see it as it is. And they sent forth their instruments, saying, God willing, if the multitude should be gathered together, they would trouble them. The same Malatya municipality is from the AK PARTY. Let's say you find the police a defense. What should we do? He doesn't have enough knowledge. At the Armenian cemetery, the city of Malatya held the last prayer place the Armenian people built with their own money. Now...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0023par0349	So did the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0350	Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0024par0351	He made me do better.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0352	Is this a summer break, brother? What matters is the exposure of a mindset. The important thing is...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0024par0353	He made me do better.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0354	To do better. Here, look, this is what we do. The understanding is the joy of all the problems in this country. His way is to make partners, friends. You'll call Armenian and make him a partner. I'll do it. It's a very arrogant thing to say.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0025par0355	I'll do it. It doesn't say.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0356	I can do better than that. The word is much more arrogant. So do what you think is right for you. Would you like someone to build you a mosque? I'll wash this, I'll do better to you. If Ahmet Aydın says, "If you love God, tell the truth. I'll destroy the Great Mosque in Adıyaman. I'll make a better mosque for you instead." How would you respond to an Englishman?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0026par0357	The government has no faith, separate the state from the faith.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0358	Mr. Mahir, don't interfere. We're talking to Ahmet.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0027par0359	Don't tease me.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0028par0360	If the government doesn't have faith, then we have to act accordingly, but now the government has faith.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0361	Now, this Malatya says: "Seize us Nemrod. First, my friends, look, make your understanding an insight, so leave this understanding, and instead of discussing other people's civilization, internalize the civilized measures, then we'll give you the Nemrut with sand, with stone, with money, with charity, but with that understanding, it's hard. You take it to the foundation of the houses or use it as a millstone, that understanding, I made a film of it. Now, my dear friends, there is another bleeding wound in this matter of culture and art. Let me ask you this when the Minister of Culture is here. In this country, many people's songs, lullabies, stories were plundered. You're listening to thousands of songs of Kurds without knowing they belong to you Kurds. When you say cane, cane, cane, cane, you think it's a Turkish song.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0029par0363	What difference does it make?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0364	It makes a lot of difference. Now, with that understanding, our work is difficult. What difference does it make?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0029par0365	Music has a universality.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0366	It's not that, it's phased with its tongue. That's what you call universal... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...you're gonna take it, you're gonna raid your tongue, you're not gonna loot it. I'd like to ask the Minister of Culture... Mr. President, do I have a minute?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0030par0370	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0021par0371	It's okay. We ask the Minister of Culture to give us the right of what is being done -- not just Ahmadi Hani -- the songs, works of art, languages that are about to be consumed by these people, but also for a compilation of them -- you form a community of neighboring, related countries, brothers and sisters, you don't do anything to the song and song of these lands, it's a shame, it's a sin, it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame, it's a shame. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0031par0375	We give, we give.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0032par0376	Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0033par0377	Mr. President, with three mentions of my name, especially about Nemrod...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0032par0378	Two minutes, 'cause it looks like it's gonna take a while.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0033par0381	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0034par0382	Mr. President, you have to separate between teasing and rusting.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0032par0383	Now, this will continue, inform, inform.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0033par0384	Mr. Chancer, let me make a statement.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0034par0385	Take a portion of this for Hatay, and speak to Hatay, and I will speak.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0033par0386	No. I will not come to Hatay. I will limit it to Adıyaman. Dear friends, of course, first of all, it's Earth Mother's Day. The actions of the AK PARTY on living and living native languages are evident, not only what they say but also what they do. First, of course, the learning of this language, the talking of this language, the broadcasting of this language, and as a television channel for TRT, as well as especially as our Ministry of Culture, for the first time in this period, has converted Mem to Zin. At the same time, now Kurdish language and literature have been opened in universities. These are great developments. It is our wish that this language live, that this language be brought to life. This language is our language, and it's my language, and we'll continue to do whatever it takes to keep this language alive, to keep this culture alive, to keep it alive. Of course, in connection with the Nemrod, my dear fellowman used some expressions. Dear friends, first of all, Nemrut is the world's highest outdoor museum, an open-air museum of 2,206 meters. It's the most beautiful place where the sun rises and sets. It's home to a very serious civilization. Nemrod is also a place on the World Cultural Heritage List, and Adıyaman is one of the 15 tourist cities. However, I want to make it very clear that Adıyaman had the deed of Nimrut. Instead of doing politics on this, we've expressed how much we, the tourism of Turkey, as Adıyaman, can use, that we should always work on it. Mr. Secretary, I know that there's always a case on his desk about the Nemrod. At the point of both the protection of Nemrod, the transfer of it to future generations, and the development of its infrastructure for tourism, they have given us serious support so far. I thank them and our government very much. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let's put aside the political polemics of Nemrod.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0035par0396	Mr. President, I want to make something right.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0036par0397	Wait a minute. One step at a time, one step at a time.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0035par0398	No, no, no. I just want to explain something from my position.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0036par0399	Your position?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0035par0400	My place.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0036par0401	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0035par0402	I don't want my hometown to file a report with a mistake. Earth Mother Language Day was yesterday, not today. I want him on the record.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0036par0403	Nemrod is Adıyaman; he will remain in Adıyaman.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0037par0404	Mr. President,
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0036par0405	Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0037par0406	I'm just gonna give you a heads-up. I made a promise to give you information.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0036par0407	No, dear, I'm giving it to you, now you'll protect Malatya, of course. Then they won't let him into the city. Two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0037par0411	Mr. President, thank you very much. Of course, I'd like to say a few words about the Nemrod, and then I'd like to say something about the Armenian Cemetery. Nemrod, dear friends, the world is the common heritage of mankind, the common property. That's the way to look at it. I want to make one thing clear, and I want to say from the bottom of my heart: Adıyaman is a city where I personally and the Malatians see a brother city, and in Malatia thousands of Adıyamans live. In that sense, I'd like to point out that we have no problem with the Adıyamans and that we love them so much. The Adıyaman are our brothers, our friends. But I want to point out one thing: I believe that any investment in Nemrut would also increase Nemrut. In Malatya, Mr. Jefe says about this hotel, and rightly maintains Adıyaman. Because Adıyaman is the most backward city in our region and is only trying to make a living with Nemrut. But the investment in Malatiah also increases Adıyaman. I believe that investing in our Puturge region will also expand Adıyaman. Any hotel there will contribute to Adıyaman, which will contribute to Nemrod. In that sense, I believe our Minister will feel the same way, and I wish there would be no conflict between this Adıyaman and Malatya about Nemrut. This is the world's legacy, the common property of the world; I want to make it clear. In addition, recently, unfortunately, Malatya faced the destruction of the Armenian Cemetery, without dismissing the murder of a Summit Publisher. What we said back there was that I don't think a Malatya should be bought here. In fact, I believe that this was accidentally destroyed, not by the City Hall, but by the Mayor himself. But the main duty of the city is not to destroy the graveyards. The main duty of the municipalities is to build the graveyards, no matter what religion, no matter what faith. This was Armenian, and because he was Muslim, he did it without any distinction. So I'm reputed for the destruction of the place that people made with their own money, and the destruction of the place, and I've said it in my statements. But once again, the municipalities don't say we'll do the job, and the Mayor doesn't say we will, and the Prime Minister doesn't say we will, Mr. Prime Minister wants help with the construction of the city's basic task, he needs to rebuild the Armenian Cemetery.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0038par0418	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement from my position.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0039par0419	Now, do this: you have a loud voice, you can hear it.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0040par0420	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0039par0421	Wait... but, look, we can't end this. Adıyaman and Malatya, from your party. You already have a question, Mr. Firat, and if we extend it, we'll do it, so I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0041par0422	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0039par0423	Mr. Commander, I won't be able to turn on the mic. Tell him to file the report.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0041par0424	Mr. Agbaba used a concept that shouldn't be in a social democrat jargon, saying that Adıyaman was left behind. Adıyaman is not behind; the lag does not exist in social democratism and socialist literature; it is left behind.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0039par0425	He's on the books.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0042par0426	Mr. President, Adıyaman hasn't been left behind, Adıyaman is a very modern-made country where investments are made and the differences between the provinces and the scissors around it are closed.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0039par0427	Yes, thank you, thank you. I won't turn on the mic, get up and tell me. I mean, to file a report. I'm making you speak for your constituents now, and there's no place in the Civil Code. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0043par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, recently Nemrut is considered to be the property of Malatya, but we no longer want to exploit Adıyaman's assets as the province of Adıyaman. The water of the Ataturk Baraj is a historical monument which is identified with Adıyaman. Thank you again.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0044par0439	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Zuhal Topcu. Here you go, Mr. Topcu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0045par0443	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the Bill of the Replicated Ideas and Arts Compilation Act. I salute you all. Throughout human history, individuals and societies have always aimed for the better, and they have benefited from the savings that have come from ancient times. How much did it take to take advantage of these savings? Of course, we put his argument aside, but looking at science history and cultural history books, we also see that this benefit is not really enough for human history. The most important of these savings are cultural and cultural beings. It is possible that the ideas and works of art that create these cultural beings are presented to the benefit of society, archived and preserved, and passed on to future generations, compiling the country's multiplication of ideas and works of art. Here, the most important task in compiling these, in replicating them really falls to the state. How much does the government do? Of course, you have to look at it from this dimension, not from one perspective, but from a multiple perspective. We can see that this is very sterile and inadequate if we take it as an event or as an act of responsibility to the Ministry of Culture alone. When we look at it from a holistic perspective, we also have to say that this has to be taken into account the dimension of the individual sector. So when we look at it, there's more to sustainability than that decision being made here. Here, the concept of sustainability in these tasks must be kept active. Continuous sustainability depends on the generation you grow, the formation of young people in this field. All parts of society are responsible for the survival of cultural heritage and the transfer of it to future generations. But to what extent is the awareness at the level of sustaining and transmitting? Basically, we can say that this should be discussed. When we pay attention to what our previous speaker said and again look at cultural history and the history of science, it also shows that we are unaware of the many values that have joined nature or have joined society since human history and have not come to this day. Of course, we may think that these are not important here, and that this consideration is not given to individuals or to those who have been raised. The fundamental issues surrounding politics and economics in international competition are now increasingly explained by cultural concepts. No concept is different, not that it doesn't affect each other, it's all in one place now. Borders have been lifted between disciplines as well. Economic activities, which represent the most important part of social life, are also well-documented by various norms, rules, moral obligations, and direct habits that together shape society. The creation of economic prosperity is now mainly effective in the sense of trust and respect between social capital and individuals of a society, as well as in co-operation. To create this prevalence, you need to recognize cultural values, and you need to find them. Because the expression that's been on the agenda in particular these last days is that the cultural values, cultural beings, especially the social touch, are now the cultural values that separate societies, not the ideologies that separate societies. • If we're a society that's aware of this, we need to make the level of awareness based on that, we need to put a lot of emphasis on this structure that's important. Now, from here, for this, we say that cultural values should no longer be neglected the importance of educational institutions in producing value-based creative solutions. Somewhere along the line, you, the Ministry of Culture, can sort it out, sort it out. But it has to be remembered that since there are people who are going to produce them, and they're going to use them, we need to see that the fundamental problem actually lies in our human growth system. Now, when we look at it, the importance of educational institutions' roles in the country's future does not lead to debate. But especially when we look at the practice in the last decade, we can see that they are not planned, unsympathetic and sustainable. Especially in recent years, both in developed countries and in developing countries, and when we look at our history, we can see that some concepts are now prominent in education systems and social structures, and this is cultural and social skills. These are the ministones that will strengthen social solidarity, social tissue, which we now call values, cultural values, which need to be flourished. On the other hand, when these are supposed to grow, when we examine in detail what our Ministry of National Education has done, we can see that there are really huge gaps in this area. In national education programmes, the skills needed to be introduced to students are collected under a number of topics. I'd like to stress this in particular: The correct and effective use of Turkish language, creative thinking, communication skills, research interrogation, problem solving, using information technologies, entrepreneurial and critical thinking. Now, when we look at these, we see that there's a really big gap, and we can also see that the system opens this gap when it goes away, beyond filling this gap. Especially when we come to the proper use of Turkish: we can see that young people develop between themselves, and even now they create a new jargon language, which is expressed in just a few letters, beyond the exact use of words, and is not being done in any positive way. Another is, in fact, what we call creative thinking, our current education system is killing and blinding creative thinking in students. We can actually imagine, think, and see that children's minds get rectangled after coming to school when they're living their dreams until the child comes to school, and they can only edit their own mental spaces in the framework of samples and curriculumes. When we get to communication skills: beyond saying that you can't use your communication skills, I mean, there is really, really, a trained, educated, intellectual individual who can't express himself, can't express himself when we're talking, and we see that there are problems in solving the problem, and there are problems in solving the problem. Using information technologies: I'd actually like to stand here and make a point. In particular, there is a system in the educational system that we refer to as a student-based, human-centered, or child-centered system that is highlighted throughout the world. We can see in our country that this system is inverted, especially when we emphasize it. We can easily see this in the FATHIH Project, which was implemented two weeks ago, and we can safely say that it is now becoming a child-based, student-centered system based education. When we say child-based education, or human-based education, or student-based, we want to say that the child, the student, should be made from a structure that is designed to solve the problems of that age group -- which are in line with the development levels and prepare for the next phase. But as none of this has been noted, we now have a huge question in our minds as to how to get them to the center, how to make computers more developed, or how to make these contractors here richer, from a system that is particularly supportive of the use of computers or IT technologies that are being used until now. Without their infrastructure being prepared, without really considering their positive contribution to education or teaching, which many countries have still been researching for 15 or 20 years. A recent study in the United States -- this was published two, three weeks ago -- concluded that computers, especially computers, did not have much impact on education, and these studies are still under way. Many studies have been done in this area in our country, as well as in master's or doctor's thesis. It really saddens you to go to iPad-based education without any consideration. Now, from here, besides these... these were basic skills, we're putting aside these, we're moving on to phase two, and we're not discussing how much they're given anymore, we've been told all the time. We don't want to give the state of our country back to the results of the PISA exams. But on the other hand, there should also be an education system of values taken as values, which should be given in secret curriculum, which will strengthen social capital, cultural capital. If you give them to them, you can produce and protect cultural assets. What are these features? When we look at these: Honesty and trust. Our youth needs to be taught to be honest with our generations and to be instilled in them a sense of trust. No one trusts anyone anymore. It's become like everyone's ratting on each other, or there's some kind of recklessness. Another is respect for yourself and others. Of course, when you say self-respect, knowing the property of your own existence, really being able to perceive yourself as a beauty, as a value created by the Lord, as a beauty, as well as the opposite. Don't take responsibility for individual actions. When you take responsibility, people can only produce things. Self-discipline and model mentality. Another is positive work ethic and hard work. Another is respect for the law. The other is healthy and positive behavior. Finally, the first step in socialization, which is the basic pillar of society, is to sustain and strengthen families as the first step in socializing the human cub. Now, when we look at these, I particularly want to tell you what's the downside of not being used for both the production and the spread of cultures, for protection. Now, if a person trusts himself, values himself, he'll give it to the other person. There's a concept, especially in sociology, that we call the conflict of birds, and in all societies, if you don't feed the younger generation and the older generation, when you don't feed them with basic values, when you don't feed them with tolerance. From here, each generation has its own value. In fact, what should be taught is that the love of Jonah should be taught, that the tolerance of the people must be taught, but we see that the conflict between generations and these values reveal the conflict against the destruction of each generation's own value. A young generation does not have any value produced by the older generation. What do they do to the lost areas as unsustainable values, as values lost in the future, because their mother, her grandmother, I don't know, doesn't accept the value produced by her two grandmothers? They're settling in. Another is, in the same way, because these cultural values can't be created exactly, especially because the fast consumption culture, which is a gift to us from developed countries, is, you know, fast food, especially a culture called hamburgers. At the same time, this spread is bringing up health problems as well as setting the stage for the extinction of our food culture. And what do we do here when we actually take these as a cultural value? We can see that clearly. Another is, in particular, as written works, what can we see in quotes for the use of them? We can see them transmitting information, stealing information. This is actually one of the most important rights. When quotes are being quoted, especially in thesis or other things, these quotes are quotes that we quote without actually getting permission from the person who came up with that idea or any quotes from the person who came up with it, without naming it. And these are, in fact, again, of the shortcomings in the given-extreme education system, the state, the state, of the theft of such intellectual property. Another is, when we look at how children use libraries -- and I myself witnessed them -- when students go to the library, they melt down to get the book -- of course, there are students who use it really well, but even though these events, the sighting of these examples upset people -- they tear the page out of the book, and they take it out. When you go to the libraries and you check the books with their pages like this, you can see it. So what action or thought can you explain this behavior on a cultural artifact? Or what can we see here if there's no camera system or security if you go to any of the ancient sites in any other place, where historical artifacts are exhibited in the open air? Here we can see that lovers' feelings, their love for each other, their love for each other, their love for each other, their love for the provinces, or whatever city they came from, and we can see that their love for them or their feelings for them are applied on ancient artifacts. Another one, here, copy and paste. As we said before, we can see them well. Now, if we look at these things, there's a big result: in our educational system, there are shortcomings for the production, protection and spread of these cultural values. What's more -- I want to consolidate them with some more examples -- there's book research. Do you read the book? In research, we can see that the Western countries, in particular, are very, very, very low. When we look at the level of reading and buying books per person, we can see that they remain at a very low level, and we can tell that the reading of scientific journals and magazines differ from each other, and that the use of magazines is much less scientific content or in their field. When we look at television, especially in Turkey, we can see that television is watched at least five hours a day. What does that actually do with the areas that one deals with? It's parallel, and the disconnection of communication with peers also reveals the lack of intellectual capital. In recent studies, Turkey is particularly perceived as the need for the book in the 295th place. There's a lot more research. These actually give us an idea, give or take. We say that cultural artifacts must and must be collected, but at the heart of it, and surely the systems that will contribute to the production of it, must all work together and produce it. Thank you, all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0046par0484	Thank you, Mr. Topcu. İstanbul MP Nur Serter on behalf of Republican People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0487	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to the Republican People's Party Group on the Proliferation of the Pronounced Ideas and Arts Act, and I salute you all. Before I begin my speech, I would like to thank Mr. Sırrıyya Leader and Mr. Pervin Buldan for the sensitivity they showed today. Now, valuable lawmakers, a very important law in Turkey's cultural life will be discussed today. The law is important, perhaps in the future of our lives, for our children, for our young people, for researchers, but, of course, the General Assembly, as always, lacks interest. Now, why is this law important, I'd like to briefly mention it. Now, here are some changes, regulations, and modern needs in which our country's cultural existence is being made, as well as the future generations will be inherited and the researchers will be served in a certain number of compiling libraries. This is an extremely important matter. In particular, researchers -- most of them are foreign researchers -- who work in our collection libraries -- are able to work in a library, research on Turkey, culture, art, science, Turkey's social structure comes to our attention in the future. So compiling libraries are really important. Now we -- to tell you the truth -- we're not a society that understands the development of compilation and change very well. Maybe not every aspect of our lives, but there used to be printed artifacts and documents in these libraries, but now it's so advanced that, you know, slides, electronically obtained data, movies, tapes, videotapes, and so on. So what is the memory of a country? In fact, this collection of libraries is the memory of a country, and it also creates an environment that will inherit and protect it in the future. It's very, very important in that regard. Now, valuable lawmakers, in fact, we, the Republican People's Party Group, wanted to support this law during talks with the General Assembly before it landed, but since it was an issue we couldn't agree on, unfortunately, we had to put up an opposition complaint. Now, in the previous proposal of the law, the compilation libraries in Turkey were identified as six libraries. We had three of these six libraries in Ankara, two in Istanbul, and one in İzmir. The Akıt Library in İstanbul, as well as the Istanbul University Library, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the National Library in Ankara, and another library in İzmir National Library. However, because these two libraries, the Izmir National Library and the Istanbul University Library, were removed from the text of the law, we made an offer to put them back into the text of the law, and the Minister promised that we would include them in the text with a motion on the General Assembly. But of course, we felt the need to put this opposition again in order to explain why later. Now, valuable lawmakers, as a professor of Istanbul University, I would like to briefly mention how important the Istanbul University Library is. The Istanbul University Library is a major library with over two million works and a compilation library by order of Ataturk. In addition, there is a second library in Istanbul University, which is also protected in a second building called the Nadir Arts Library. Now, as a compilation library since 1934, if you remove a library that has been serving since one particular year as a compilation library, all of the artifacts that were collected there from 1934 to 2012 are in the garbage decree, because no researcher prefers a library equipped with a cut-down period of research, a continuity. That's why it's so important. Second, the Istanbul University Library has another very important treasure. There is a department within the Istanbul University Faculty of Literature, whose name is the new name of the Faculty of Literature, whose name is Knowledge and Document Management, and has a very valuable degree-giving faculty, and for years our library has already served with the support of its presidents and key professors, and all the librarians who have been taken have been subjected to education by either the graduates or the faculty of that department. Therefore, the Istanbul University Library has no problem providing the most qualified staff. There were some infrastructure problems, technological equipment problems, but over time, large investments were also overcome. It is also equipped with qualities that can present all kinds of data in the digital environment, and it currently has the speciality of being the National Information Centre for Broadcasts. In addition, the university administration also has very serious demands for the continuation of its ability to be a compilation library. Therefore, we have requested that this text be added to the Library and Documentation Centre of Istanbul University. Our second request was for the Izmir National Library. The Izmir National Library is the only collection library that serves a serious area outside Istanbul and Ankara, which is the only collection library that exists in a large region. Istanbul is what we call a city of science and culture, even the capital, but Izmir is a city of science and culture. There are over 40 universities in Istanbul, but there are many universities in İzmir. The presence of libraries in cities that have an international attraction is also important for foreigners to investigate, and over 100,000 researchers, such as foreigners and local researchers, are doing research at the Istanbul University Library, and much prefer the Izmir National Library. So, with the support of the Izmir National Library Foundation and the İzmir Metropolitan Municipality, we also asked that this function continue. Like I said, Mr. Secretary, we're going to make a motion. But why couldn't we trust it? So it's obvious...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0048par0499	We did, partner. It's signed.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0500	Right now, Mr. Group, I can see from the Deputy President's face that such a motion has been submitted, and I thank the Minister. Of course, the problem with this trust is that it's not a direct-connected problem with the Minister himself, it's a result of a lack of confidence that feeds on past examples of general distrust. Unfortunately, the government's commitments, the opposition parties, were unable to trust the government's agreements on the laws. Why can't we? One thing we can't rely on is that the agreement reached on the Commission with a motion can be changed when it comes to the General Assembly; the next thing you know, with a late-night operation, when everyone is trying to concentrate in their sleepiest state, there's a little change of words that makes a different amount of sense. Now, of course, reckless enough to create insecurity is also another subject to be questioned. If a political party or the ruling party has taken on a public opinion that is self-righteous enough to risk insecurity, then it must also be examined and questioned. This is the picture in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. An understanding of autocratic governance, a tenacious governance based on the majority of the fingers, makes him feel open and clear in all areas. This is AKP's mastery period, the AKP's attention in the age of apprentices and phalanx has become increasingly comfortable, has gained comfort and has now left its agenda. Now the AKP has made its secret agenda clear and clear that we used to tell them, but we couldn't get rid of the question marks in their heads. Yes, AKP's secret agenda no longer exists, the agenda is clear.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0049par0504	You can put it in the convincing room and rearrange it!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0505	You don't have a secret agenda, so at least from that point of view, let me say that we're in a state of relief, because we know your agenda, because your agenda is clear. You want to create the AKP's Turkish version with the AKP-based human model, you want to create a type of person. You know how you used to tell us that you made one type of person? Our republican administration...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0049par0507	You couldn't do it.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0508	... I wonder if you'd be here if that republican administration you're accusing had produced one type of person!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0049par0509	That's why we're here.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0050par0510	The only type of people stayed in the persuasion room.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0511	I wonder if it'd be you! You have become self-conscious, self-expressive individuals as a result of this republic's administration, this republic's educational system, but you have set out to create an AKP-like human model by shaping young people's heads and playing with their genetic makeup, with sentences that you have imposed on yourself that the Prime Minister wants to raise a religious then vindictive youth first. What is a man of AKP? You know, there's homo economics in economics, there's homo politicalus, there's economics, there's political people. So you're on your way to produce fucking homo AKPlimus, and you're free to play with the genetic structure of young people, to shape the minds of young people, to try to create your own Turkey, as clearly as expressed by the prime minister's mouth, in an authoritarian, imposed understanding, and you feel free to do what you want and do what you want to do. You think you're free as you walk away from democracy, you think you're freer when you're stuck in authoritarian government, but you're wrong. Of course, in order to do that, you had to surround the institutions, first you created your own institutions. First you created your own universities, silent, silent universities, and then you created your own political judgment, and then you made your own decisions, and then you created your own NGOs, your own writing team, your own media; the more you created them, the more you felt superior. Do you know why it's increased? It has increased for you because you and the Prime Minister never tolerate criticism and opposition.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0051par0514	If it had been, you'd have taken it to the persuasion room.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0515	If there were, you'd have at least had the decency to shut up and listen to the slogans you've been repeating over the years instead of screaming for ten minutes while I'm here talking for 20 minutes, and you don't have the patience for criticism, you don't have the patience for opposition. All you want is praise. You think you're doing very important and good work in a magical world, in the world of dreams, that you're surrounded by your praises, and you're trying to create a generation of people who will applaud and vote for you, no one will object to you, no one will criticize you, just you will be praised.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0052par0516	Respect, respect!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0517	So the prime minister, inspired by the lines of Necip Fazil Shorturek, inspired by the lines of the youth of Hitabe, wanted to raise a youth, and I think he also gave the sign of what the next step would be, from those lines of Necip Fazil. Because after Necip Fazil Shortfurek's plaintiff said that he was a teenager, he believed in Hakkk, not the people.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0053par0518	Alhamdulillah!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0519	Sure. ...and justice on the wall of Parliament belongs to the Right. He misses a youth who yearns for his motto. And I believe that at the next stage, if you have power or you can't get out of the desperate state of authoritarian governance, you're going to change the writing that's there; it's the unconditional, unconditional nation. It's not the government, it's the government. You're going to write, and you're going to relax, because it's not a society where you have democratic, individual freedoms and people can think freely and believe.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0054par0521	Now it's freedom!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0522	...you're only longing for a Turkey made up of people who think like you, who believe like you, who live like you. It's called the precious MPs, not democracy, and its practices in the world are not democracy, but this regime has always been step by step. One step at a time! I advise you to read the book My Fight by Hitler. Hold that mirror, and we'll see what you see there.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0054par0524	My fight is yours...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0055par0525	Congressman, please...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0047par0526	I think that the face you're going to see in that mirror will be your face, and while the road is near, I suggest that you give up these dangerous steps within yourself, and instead of creating a youth that is your own typeology, you raise a bright youth, free-thinking, self-determing, researching, and truly working for the future of this country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0056par0529	That's what we're doing!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0057par0530	Thank you, Mr. Serker.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0058par0531	Mr. President, in the speech of the speaker, he specifically accused the AK PARTY of recklessness of its power, and he used other statements, I want to make a promise.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0057par0532	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0059par0533	The government will answer!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0060par0534	The government will answer! The Minister is sitting here, the Minister will answer. Wrong, not true!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0061par0537	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course, as the speaker continues to speak here, what age do we live in, I think they say, is 50 years ago.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0062par0539	That's right!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0061par0540	All of Turkey knows who was in Turkey 50 years ago. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, of course, we have faced very unjust accusations. Look, it's true, whatever this country has suffered, it's drawn from people who have been shaped; whatever this country has suffered, it's drawn from the person who wants to be molded with certain patterns; whatever this country has suffered, it's suffered because of the young people who have been tried to be persuaded in the chamber of persuasion, and because of the mentality that has made it so. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If there is a single type of human model, I ask you: Is the only type of human model a young person that you force out of those persuasion rooms, are they now young people who continue their school in a modern, free manner, trying to continue their education? What's the only type of human model?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0063par0545	Religious youth!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0061par0546	Dear friends, why do religious people bother you? Why do you bother with religious youth?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0064par0547	Religiousity doesn't bother us, hatred bothers us, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0061par0548	A man can be religious, he can be on the side of freedom. A man is religious, he's modern, he's modern. Of course, with your sense of modernity, our understanding of modernity may not be the same.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0064par0549	Don't slander me.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0061par0550	Our understanding of modernity is open to freedom; our understanding of modernity is open to innovation, to modernism; in our modernity, we have not only what is behind heads, but what is it that is part of? Not in what way, but in what kind of table does it take place, not in what way? It's not in our modernity, it's in our understanding of modernity, it's in a modern way, it's in a modern way, it's in a modern way, it's in a moral way, and it's also in our modern way that people live in a way that will have a national and spiritual sense. Why is this bothering you? Why do you feel uncomfortable about this? A human... I say, "Didarim, alhamdullah." But at the same time, I am modern, modern, and I believe in the rule of law... [[Noises from CHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe in freedom, I respect the differences, so I can't make you feel uncomfortable about it.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0064par0555	We don't mind the pious. Why should we be bothered?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0065par0556	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0066par0557	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0065par0558	We've started, I hope we'll go. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0066par0562	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my advice to the Justice and Development Party Group, my humble advice, please do not engage in such matters as religion, religiousism, because you are sinking as you enter.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0067par0563	Keep your advice to yourself.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0066par0564	Dear lawmakers, there are two concepts that have stood out in Turkey in recent years: hate speech and hate crimes -- an understanding that replaces those who are not himself, those who are weak, those who are in society, those who are in the minority, and those who look at the other by the eyes of authority, who try to crush them and declare them as criminals who pursue them. It's an understanding that divides society. Society needs peace, peace. Hate speech, hate speech, litigation of youth, the litigator of hatred, divides society. We don't need this. We need peace, we need peace. The distinction between you and the other person is that of those who despise you and those who are not of you, and those who are not of you; that is not a distinction that the nation can confirm.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0067par0566	That distinction was made in the room of persuasion, in the room of persuasion!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0066par0567	Dear lawmakers, I repeat: Look, if you take justice out of religion, if you only reduce religion to meetings, there will be no religion. Please don't do this! The essence of religion is justice. The essence of religion is to come to the government in a jacket and go in a jacket. The essence of justice: at the heart of justice, at the heart of religion, politics is seen as the place to distribute justice, not the place to distribute moisture. I invite you to that understanding. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit02spe0068par0570	Thank you. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0068par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 69th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 128 from where we left off. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Ayşenur is Islam. Here you go, Islam. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0069par0014	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Pronounced Ideas and Arts Compilation Act. I hereby salute our High Council. Before we talk about the law, I'd like to correct a matter mentioned by the former Congressman. He said that the two collection libraries were excluded by the Ministry, Mr. Congressman, and it was as if it were a narrowing of the Ministry's will, but that's not the case. There are actually two collection libraries that have been excluded, one at Istanbul University and one at the İzmir National Library. However, the reason for this is that both libraries were asked to apply to the Ministry and were asked to be removed from the compilation library in their own rights, that they would no longer be able to function as a compilation library due to the impossibilities of storage. Otherwise, as Mr. Hatibin said, we're in no position to disrespect science, scientific institutions, especially universities. In fact, we have great respect for science, especially universities. I just want to say that we have no respect for a number of young children who are entering college with their hair, their head in a number of rooms, teaching them lessons to be single-edged, playing with them, their souls, their personalities, we have no respect for them, we have no respect for them, we have no respect for them. To go back on the subject, it's one of the most important tasks of the state to have ideas and works of art that make up an important part of our national and cultural assets, to be collected, stored, announced, put to use, and transferred to future generations. Therefore, almost all countries have compilation laws. We also know that in our country, compilation has been focused, starting in the early years of the republic. In 1934, we were all able to secure the future of our national memory by drafting Prints and Pictures No. 2527. In the 1930s, this law, which is more advanced than most of the world's counterparts, and is able to respond to all the needs of that day, has become a necessity for regeneration, regeneration, as it is no longer able to see the need because of modern technological developments, publishing and scientific advances. Today, ideas and works of art are produced not only as, you know, printed material, but also in a number of ways we call non-book material. In fact, advances in science and technology, as in many areas, have changed the way of publishing, and hundreds of sources of information are available in electronic environments every day because the latest techniques are being used fairly widely. Now, when we look at the existing Law, it's a pity that all these products can be compiled as state copies, which is not possible with the Law. Thus, the work produced by new replication methods must also be covered. We also have data that UNESCO has agreed in 1977 that all member states will review the compilation laws and prepare them according to the conditions of the age. Thus, the bill that we are discussing today will bring about the restoration of the Law, which was adopted seventy-seven years ago, with international norms and obligations mentioned above. In this direction, it is necessary to determine the compilation library, the compilation copy, the compilation charge and the criminal provisions; and also, the name of Law 2527 has become necessary to renew according to the current conditions. In 2006, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism presented the Pronouncement of the Pronounced Law on Ideas and Arts drafted in accordance with today's conditions. On 1/5/2008, the Prime Minister's Office submitted it as a draft law by the Council of Ministers to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It was discussed in the commissions in 2009 and was referred to the General Assembly for legislation. The bill could not be passed after the end of the 23rd Legislature, it was extradited to the Prime Minister. Thus, it is up to us to complete the task in the 24th term. As we know, the development in publishing in our country can be monitored day-to-day by ISBN -- the International Standard Book Number -- which is the international standard-term broadcast number -- and ISMN -- which is the international standard music number -- within the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Like all over the world, any work published in our country takes an international number and is able to access it with this number all over the world. This application, which was used optionally, was highly adopted by publishers. It covers 99 per cent of the works published in Turkey. The non-oppressional part is mostly artefacts that are usually published outside of the metropolitan area, not tied to any publishing house with their own means. In order to cover these, information is ongoing through municipal cultural and tourism directorates, libraries and other organisations in the districts and districts. Meetings with publishers, occupational organisations and NGOs in publishing are constantly emphasised on the importance of compiling, and it is also sought to be more sensitive. In 2009, the 5th National Broadcast Congress was focused on the issue. In this framework, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism has tried to overcome the shortcomings of the existing legislation with a compilation programme and a compilation generic. The study was completed in 2010 and implemented in January 2011. The prepared compilation program is also extremely compatible with the ISBN, ISSN, and ISMN databases that I just mentioned. So the compilation units are more easily able to identify and track the unassembled, unassembled -- or rather -- works. The collection of artifacts can also be sent to libraries on the subject without wasting time. Also in January 2011, the compilation order was provided to the libraries, universities, trade organisations, and all institutions that could broadcast, particularly the municipal directorates of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. These studies eventually included 43,217 books published in 2011 and were sent to related libraries. I have to repeat, 43,217 copies of the book have been compiled. That's a pretty perfect number. I'll tell you the numbers I can remember from the previous years. We went through a time when only 19,000 of the 29,000 books could be compiled. The infrastructure work for simultaneous compilation of published books has also been greatly completed. With the legislation of the new bill, the legal process will be completed, so we think there will be no more problems with compilation in Turkey. I'd like to briefly sum up the innovations of the bill. With the current law, it can only be compiled -- as I just said -- ideas and works of art based on printing techniques. With this bill, all of the artifacts produced through replication methods, including electronic environments, will be covered. The responsibility of compiling with the existing law is only in the printing press. However, with the new bill, the responsibility will also be spread to publishers, the real and legal people responsible for publishing and printing, and so the collection will be better when the area of responsibility is expanded. The fines imposed on the existing Law are highly inadequate, so they are not deterrent. So the compilation process is at the mercy of the publishers. We think the law will work easier since the new bill has been made a deterrent. The publishers pay a certain financial price for each piece they publish. With the existing Law, compilation copies of libraries are requested for free. However, with the new bill, the taxpayers will be able to show these compilation copies as expenses. That is a relief for them. Finally, I'd like to say that we are the world's leading country with over three hundred thousand manuscripts found in libraries of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. May I remind you that the collection of Ibn Ibn Sina Handwriting at Istanbul's Writer's Library has been accepted by UNESCO as the World Memory. I think we need to imitate the previous generations who have preserved and passed on to us these artifacts that have built the link between us and the past. Therefore, we need to be more careful about transferring today's printed and written works into the future, and we need to work with more perfected systems, because we all know that it is not possible for the nations who do not know their past to set their future on solid foundations. From now on, I thank you all on behalf of our group for your contribution and efforts to legislitate this bill, which will now be produced and produced in and out of Turkey, to collect ideas and art that create our national memory, so that it can be preserved and transferred to future generations, and fill the space in this area completely.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0070par0035	Thank you, Islam. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Mustafa Moroglu of İzmir. Here you go, Mr. Moroglu.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0071par0039	Mr. President, I have been promised to express my views on the arrangement of the İzmir National Library as an Izmir MP on the compilation law. Izmir is an important city for all political parties, and for all countries that have ever been related to İzmir, and for all the cities around İzmir. One of the most beautiful words for Izmir is that one of the words of poetry is that the sea of Izmir smells of the sea, and its daughter smells of the sea. But one of the most appropriate words for İzmir is that both its daughters and its people smell of freedom, modernity and democratism. Therefore, like all dictators, the AKP ruling, ministers of the AKP's ruling power, and Izmir remains on the agenda as an important city, seeking to further reduce tolerance and democracy in our country. He maintains such protection that the attacks on İzmir are carefully observed even as a compilation law. Now, Mr. Minister, as our congressman friend said, we're going to eliminate the removal of the Smyrna National Library from the compilation, with a motion that he passed through the commission, but he might say so. What if there were no Republican People's Party MPs on that commission? The minister is not ignorant of the importance of the collection of the Izmir National Library for Izmir, for the Aegean and for the surrounding provinces. We personally, in terms of personal thoughts, are not in the opinion that the Minister harbored such hostility towards Izmir (Izmir) because we know the view of culture, art in our years of traveling, and in this period of time, but when he entered the political climate, people's thoughts, their environment, their political climate can change the way they are. So he may not have realized it, but I repeat: if the Republican People's Party hadn't been on that committee and this Parliament, Izmir would have faced another attack, one more subtle detail, another attack. So why does the Izmir National Library come out of compilation? Speaking here earlier, my friend, the AKP MP, said something that was not true, as they had been removed for making such a request, in accordance with the demands of the National Library.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0072par0043	İstanbul University...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0071par0044	No, he told me about the National Library. Now that I've heard it, what if my ears... let Mr. President bring in the recordings.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0072par0045	İstanbul University, İstanbul University...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0071par0046	That may be so, but I'm telling you what I heard.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0073par0047	Mr. Moroglu, go ahead. Then you can fix it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0071par0049	So, what I heard, the speaker said here: "Istanbul and Izmir's National Library were removed from the collection, because they had no warehouses, according to their own demands." There's no such thing. As I spoke, I confirmed again that our National Library, the Izmir National Library, does not have such a request. So, based on false information... yes, as the Minister did, a wrong job was done here... but it is our duty, both as the people of Izmir and as the MP, to find out what the facts of this wrong course of action are. Everyone knows that my dear MPs, all my friends, Izmir, are not attacked because of the fact that there are only Republican People's Party municipalities. Izmir is an exemplary city in Turkey and the world as a way of life. In İzmir, all ideas are spoken freely. In İzmir, all people live freely in their own beliefs. I don't know a citizen who can't emigrate from any province of Turkey and live in İzmir, as he does in those provinces. I have lived in Izmir (Izmir) since 1973. So, what's really happening is, for some provocative reasons, again, it's one of the major provinces of Izmir that protects this way of life, although sometimes it's unpleasant by the tactics of these divide-partica-direction policies. Now, that's where it's being done to eliminate a shining city as an example, and I don't think it's an unconscious thing, it's a conscious thing. Is that reason number one? I think that's it. Another reason is... the reason for the removal of the Izmir National Library as part of the collection is because of the lack of staff and budget. On the contrary, the Izmir National Library is the tenant of the Tourism Ministry Alhamra Cinema, the State Opera and Ballet. It's the property of the National Library, Alhamra Cinema, so there's no budget problem. In addition, it is supported by its own foundations and by the Metropolitan Municipality, and there are no such problems. But the question arises: Is the National Library also wanted to be punished for its dealings with the City Hall? Or is it because so far you have made efforts to contribute to the modernity of İzmir, to the scientific approach of İzmir, to tolerance? Is it because you've taken 90 mobile libraries to 90 villages? Is it because you built five village libraries? So it's because of the efforts of Izmir's citizens to face more science, intelligence? Don't tell me what it has to do with the capital city, when the Ministry of National Education and the National Education Directors have been doing a lot of the work they need to do, in recent years the school principals have been afraid of asking the municipality to help care for their schools, because every job our mayors have done -- with a last general order of things -- will be presented, and if not, there will be another investigation. Now it will be corrected by a motion. Mr. President, I think we have motions, but I have a feeling that those friends aren't here today. We have more important laws than every motion we've made. We have friends who have rejected it as if they had a mandate to refuse. If they hear our names, we're against them. They might have the wrong speech. We don't want this to be an accident. I think the Izmir National Library should be taken into its compilation by a motion, and that the Izmirians should have this opportunity for both our Minister's sensitivities, as well as for the Izmirians, all the Aegean Region, the Mediterranean and the surrounding provinces to benefit from this library. Our time is coming. My final statement is that our issue and our problem is actually a deeper debate than discussing the removal of the Izmir National Library from compilation. In particular, for example -- myself personally -- all my fellow lawmakers and all the groups and their representatives, the members of the group, had to meet today and ask each other to account for the work done by Erzurum Dumlupınar School Manager two days ago. It was not only the Republican People's Party or the other MPs in the group that should have stayed with our friends outside the AKP, or the entire Assembly should have stood up through a series of attacks on Nur Serter. So if we ourselves are in the Parliament where peace and tolerance should be the center, and our fellow lawmakers are not showing this tolerance and are trying to shut it down, especially if we all go out on this occasion and ask our own deputies to a parliament. If they don't have the courage to say it, we, in compilation law, or in any other law, are not in the interest of Turkey, my dear friends. The last word is for Izmir. Again the day before, Izmir shook with 4.4. In a speech I gave about a month ago, I talked about the crimes we committed against the cities, and I told you that Izmir's urban renovations should be launched immediately. I think that because of this earthquake, my AKP MP friends will wake up once again because Smyrna has woken up with 4.4, and I say, all of us, together, here, I repeat, the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of Transport, whoever they're going to act on, the city renovation projects of Izmir will be approved immediately, and the Izmirians will be able to solve their own problems. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0074par0059	Thank you, Mr. Moroglu. On behalf of the government, Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Ertugrul Günay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0075par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, I salute you all. Now, before I came to the stand, I got a phone message. Mr. Yusuf Kurchenli, a distinguished director of Turkish cinema, has been disturbed for a long time, and I spoke to his doctor yesterday, and I wish him mercy, and I thank him for all the work he has done for our art, for our culture, for our cinema. My dear friends, we're doing an important study. I think we're doing an important study that we shouldn't sacrifice to political polemics, compilation law. The Compilation Act, which was introduced in the 30s, was issued in our country in 1934; it had served for a really important period of time when it was removed; but in a way, the collection of the works that were printed in the printing that day -- in a sense, a dear friend of ours -- performed an important function in recording national memory -- but in time, there is a sentence in the universe, you know, which changes when times change, can't be denied -- with the taboo of persecution. And I hope that those words go through the transcripts, and sometimes there are tyrannical errors or errors in expression. The new era, of course, should not only be printed in print, but all of the works published in various places, all of the digital media, the websites, all of these studies, the web environment. In fact, in the following years, all must review UNESCO's compilation law in this framework against these needs. They also have warnings to all countries, concerned countries. We made a preparation in this framework -- last semester actually came up -- we passed it through the Commission, and then there were a few things that I'm going to explain -- that we're going to do today, hopefully, and we're going to do an important work together on recording national memory. I express my gratitude to my friends. The commission is really out of the question of a few small issues, which is that it's out of the question that we're going to fix today, in agreement with all parties. From time to time, we need that kind of understanding. Again, our friends will remember, one of the other proposals our Ministry made in the past period was agreed upon by the establishment of President of Writers. In that framework, we are currently building an infrastructure in Turkey that will preserve our writing work much better, and we have established the infrastructure for the preservation of our writings -- which is the center of the Istanbul Library of Solomonia -- which is one of the most important treasures of our cultural world -- in accordance with world standards. We've done this with the alliance of all the political parties in Parliament, and today we're trying to do the same. In fact, after a long break in 2009, after more than a decade, we gathered our National Publishing Congress, and in accordance with the directives given by the Publishing Congress, we actually put this mechanism that we're trying to get legal status today into action, and we got its results back in the years we left behind. I'd like to give you an example, in 2007, 29,000 pieces were printed in Turkey and 19,000 were compiled, with small change. In 2011, 43,000 pieces were printed and -43,217 -- we compiled 43,000. So we built the actual infrastructure in the time we left behind. This is the ISBN number, the ISSN number, and the applications we've done under ISMN numbers, and we've gotten very important distances in compiling. With a new law today, we'll be able to bring this distance to legal infrastructure. What are we doing? Our friends have also touched on the details from time to time, and I don't want to take too much time. We're taking all of the artefacts, including electronic environments, into this law. While the responsibility of compiling with the existing Law is only in the printing press, we now take responsibility for real and legal individuals and publishing houses. In the existing Law, when administrative fines are far from deterrent, we are now making them more deterrent, and we are trying to make it a burden for the publisher to give a compilation copy to the Composer, while it is a burden for the publisher, and now we're trying to get it to write it down, so it's not a burden for the publisher. So we try to meet this important need without bringing anyone a special burden. My dear friends, we tried to limit this in Istanbul and Ankara, in the first draft of the law. The original drafting of the law goes back to the previous period, in 2006. When we brought the law to the Commission in the last period, we were unable to lift the burden of Istanbul University. My dear friend, one of my friends, a spokesman for the opposition, was vice president at Istanbul University, and he knows the process very well. Istanbul University later assessed it as an important source of information and culture for them. At first -- Mr. Alemdaroglu -- I think in the time of Mr. Alemdaroglu -- they have a demand that some of the artifacts be given to them, and they have a suggestion that they want to be fully compiled in the time of our current President. We took it in comparison, we took it seriously on the Commission. In the General Assembly, we take a matter past the commission so that we don't have to deal with matter renegotiation and the burden of wasting time -- the department, the power-migration, we all agree -- we will deal with that problem in the General Assembly with the joint motion. We said, "We stand by our word." So I'd like to argue over this for a long time, and I'd like to consider it an occupation of the General Assembly. The records are in the middle, first let us out of the university. There's a demand, then let us in. There's a demand. The Akıt Library in Istanbul, which is more or less a place that can be counted within the campus of Istanbul University. Physically, we're also developing the White Sea Library. We've got some renovations that we're doing right now in the White House of Whiteberry Library that we're going to finish at the end of this year. Istanbul will have increased its resources to the extent of the White Librarian Library. Not only that, but there was a delivery house near the Library of Solomon, which had existed for forty and fifty years since I was a student, because we had made Solomoniye the Writing Center. We've removed the delivery home from that ashtray, and we're restoring and raising the Library of Solomonia to include the delivery home. Immediately, in the five-metre street range of the Library of Solomonia, there was the old Darashhifa building in the Ashtry of Solomonia, and we made it a book healer. Thus, the physical location of the library of Solomonia grows more than onefold. It is also one of the rare buildings found in Istanbul, which were closed because it had been damaged in 99 earthquakes, which was built as a library in Istanbul, built by the deceased Big Ragip Pasha about two hundred and fifty years ago -- currently lying in prison with the deceased grandson of Big Ragip Pasha -- that library was closed since the 99 earthquake. We restore it, and it's an example of restoration, and we bring it into Istanbul's culture life. So we're developing our library opportunities elsewhere in Turkey and Istanbul. İstanbul University can benefit from these opportunities, but let's get involved. We'll work it out by unanimous vote today. There may have been a slip about Izmir, one of my friends. İzmir has no such written request -- Mr. Moroglu is right there -- but the İzmir Library is not an institution of the state directly, like the National Library in Ankara. The İzmir Library -- its name is the National Library -- is the library of the İzmir National Library Foundation, a foundation library, and, yes, we use some of it as rent, but the places used as libraries also bring up the need to build a new library in İzmir. Our goal in the coming period is to build a new library for Izmir, and to develop the possibilities of the National Library, directly, of the People's Library. There's a library tradition that's been there since the thirties, even since 1912, but there's a library museum in the historical building that's probably supposed to be in the future, and we need to build a new library building. Now our friends, I mean, are there long-term intentions against Izmir? Do you have an attitude? In fact, I have respected your halls with great respect! Do we have any interest in removing a cultural event related to Izmir (Izmir) or another Turkish settlement? We represent an understanding that tries to restore Anatolian to new cultural sites, to introduce them, to care more about action than words. My friends developed, for example, a new library concept that had never been on Turkey's agenda. I'd like to rephrase that for your information. Literature museum libraries, this is the first time this semester has come up. When you say a library, all the artifacts you can think of are piled up in there, and now we're trying to build a theme library. The literature museum library, the first example we did in Ankara is called Mehmet Akif. You know, the Hamaönü. We opened Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar Museum of Literature in Ankara. We opened Karacaoglan Museum of Literature in Adana. We are preparing Emrah in Erzurum. We're not discriminated against, we're trying to build a library of literature in İzmir. We are trying to build a library of literature in Tripoli called Bedri Rahmi Eyüboğlu. It's a physical fact, and it's still happening -- it's a physical fact, because we're trying to introduce the different settlements of Anatolian to cultural services, and no one can imagine taking a tradition out of İzmir, but because the place is inadequate, and a collection library brings incredible loads, and the magazines that were sent to that collection library in the previous years are in storage, in the form of unopened bales. But since there's such a demand, we're going to do it unanimously, with a motion today. And I want you to know that the Izmir National Library, in that building, I think it's its 70th year, but as a foundation library, it almost completes its 100th year. It's not my information, and it's not my information. When I visited the National Library of İzmir, the current director of the National Library, who shared information that surprised me in front of the press, with me and with the press, came to this building, visited our National Library, Ataturk --Celal Bayar is one of the founding founders -- Celal Bayar arrived, for the first time a Minister of Culture is coming. Yes, I visited that library for the first time as a Minister of Culture and Tourism, which means that in previous years the Izmir National Library, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, was ignored by the authorities and those responsible. So when we had so much relationship with cultural sites and so much effort to spread them to the Turkish sath, I actually smiled and smiled at our friends' ideas about both the Istanbul University Library and the Izmir Library, which are based on a bunch of clairvoyants, so I smiled because I knew the truth. My dear friends, we are trying to promote as much culture and service throughout Turkey as possible, and we are also trying to establish the infrastructure for sharing all this information with everyone in electronics. As of 90% of our writing, we've now transferred it to digital media. Hopefully, over time, we'll be able to scale the copyright issues to some extent, and we'll be able to digitize our national library inventory, and without people going to a library center, they'll be able to access information from another library of Anatolia. Turkey has begun to take new large distances in these areas. We owe it all to the economic and democratic stability of Turkey. I deeply regret that my friends here, as we all discuss a law that we agree on, have made accusations of power or have expressed some opinions that lead to political polemics. So without discrimination, we're trying to maintain the entire cultural presence of Turkey. When I opened the Adana Library of Literature, I insisted that his name be Survivor Kemal. We did it at Yasar Kemal's suggestion because I learned from Karacaoglan. He said, "What did I learn from Karacaoglan?" And we did it at his suggestion. You will remember that during the previous period of government, the citizenship problem of Nazim Hikmet, which had previously been on the agenda of various governments and had never been resolved, has been resolved. We have tried to remove the obstacles to the bonding of many people from the land of which they were born, whether material or spiritual.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0076par0081	You've been in power for ten years. You're doing what you haven't done in ten years after ten years.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0075par0082	So it's a fear, a concern, that the idea of such an understanding is to prevent people from creating a free, free generation of wisdom, a free generation of conscience. What we do is that we, the late Ziya Pasha, have a saying. The ritual is in the form of a man's visible rank. We do it out of understanding, and we think that one day society will understand what we are trying to do. And he understands, as a matter of fact, that all the election results are what we do, if we believe in democracy, if public opinion means anything to us, the community understands what we do. So where he's going to criticize us, I think some friends should turn around and look at themselves a little bit, and say, "Why can't we get this support from the people -- we're doing good things and we're saying -- we can't get it?" I think he should turn around and make a judgment. Some of our friends talked and left, but I'd like to talk about it for a minute or two. The issue of culture and tourism is always raised, Mr. Commander, and my friend has brought it up. My dear friends, we don't want to be an ordinary coastal tourism country. Tourism is one of the key tools for international introductions of the country. We try not only to bring up the quality of our people's life, but also to try to explain to the world that Turkey is a brand country, that Turkey is a different country, that Turkey is a country that creates awareness in the entire way of life, by adding culture to it. So these two areas are very close, very close together, and we are very happy to keep them together. And there was a memorial day yesterday about native languages. In fact, we passed this United Nations Convention from our Commission on cultural diversity -- about a year ago -- from our Commission, from our Education Commission, and now it's on the agenda of our General Assembly. I hope that in the near future, our General Assembly will also record this contract. We want no language lost, no color lost, no culture lost. As a state, we don't want to impose any cultural pressure, language pressure, any formulation. These have been done in the past years. I don't want to reopen the discussion of the room of persuasion, but we all live in this country, not with a lot of Nisyans. We've come from where, and now we're all aware of how we're in a more pluralistic environment than we used to be. We, of course, want respect for every language. So, a friend of mine told me that we don't think it's right for some dialects, some local languages to be brought together on television with a criminal or with a bad identity. I'd like to underline the wrong approach on this issue. As a matter of fact, we already think that televisions, our cultural publications, should give the right role models to society, lead young people to the right models. Of course we should respect the language, of course we should respect the person because our understanding is that you ask yourself to do whatever you want, and that's the meaning of the four books. We walk with that faith, we do our jobs with that faith. I thank you for the support of my friends in this law. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0077par0088	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, as mentioned today, I would not speak for Mr. Serter, for my own sake, to avoid reminding him, but I would like to express to you that I personally consider the attitude taken against the women's MPs of the entire Turkish National Assembly as a crime. Second of all, I would like to express that I consider it both a serious disrespect and rudeness. On the other hand, in order to prevent violence and harassment on the woman, to ensure the equality of men and women -- my second term is in this parliament -- especially in the past period -- without being aware of the difference -- I would like to say how important their work is, but how little we have traveled. When I look at the way the press is reporting today about Mr. Serter, I want to express that I have the same sense of harassment and violence for the same woman, and I condemn it. [[Applause]] [[Continue]] Now, on behalf of his people, the last word is Mr. Ismet Ulmata, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Flying.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0078par0102	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I have made a personal pledge on the Bill of the Replicated Ideas and Arts Compilation Act, number 128. With that dignity, I salute you all with respect, love, and conversation. Dear friends, I actually had a lot of notes written on the compilation bill, but when I saw that you were a little bit removed from the mercy language in the House today, I wanted to share that with my friends. I think we need some style and some sort of compilation law. With that respect, I think it would be helpful if the styles used during the Republic's history were collected and put together in a database and actually compared with the present. Dear friends, we can all develop a language of mercy, a language of mercy, a language of brotherhood. Because the only food in politics is people's gratitude. Other than that, any food you offer to politics won't feed on it. It's really important to take the courtesy of the nation. Now, we do what we do with the authority of our nation. Now, I would like to say to my dear brothers and sisters who use non-verbal languages, that you may be authorized to carry out any facts you want as long as the nation demands and appreciates them. With that respect, friends, I also condemn and strongly condemn the ugly approach to dear Nur Serter Ma'am, which I do not know is on the show. I assume my group agrees with me. (EC PARTY and CHP rows) But I do not find it right for my dear Nur Ma'am to fall into the same language of tension, to approach a language of hatred in a way that feeds its tongue. So there's no way we can conclude by reading a human heart with a zapping. My dear friends, when we say "community" -- in the nail -- we think of it as really the trend of the age -- to capture information, communication, technology, and freedoms. It would not be right if we took it under the fingernails and perceived it as an imposition of a way of life, and we all would have to stand up for it together.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0079par0108	Is it modern to accept gang law?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0078par0109	Dear friends, now dear Tillarya isn't here -- I'm just saying -- I don't think my dear Tilliya will be offended by my joke -- she seemed a little confused today. But I love him so much, so much I take advantage of him, a dear friend of mine. Now, my dear friends, this Kurdish problem is a 70 percent psychological problem. For example, I've been singing it all along, and we've been singing it all the time as a party. That's right, a referendum must be made, and the village, whatever the name of the mehra, must be returned, and these psychological problems must be overcome. Language, religion, dissolution of color, dear friends, but it's the work of people who reduce. I'd like to express immediately that there are two kinds of understandings on the earth -- if anyone finds the third one, we'll see it as an invention -- that one tries to understand social events, understands, interpretations, observations, analytical observations, and solves them. Another one is inductive, fanatical, and truly integrating. This itches, bleeds, and feeds on social events. Friends, there's nothing on the earth that should be morally rejected as much as bleeding social events and feeding on it. Now, besides, Brother Tarayya may find what we've done in the art of culture incomplete, it's true, of course our shortcomings may be incomplete, but -- Dear Minister knows that by 2002 -- we had 7,000 books -- I'm a publisher and a writer -- and now, praise be to God, we have 43,000 different books. It's likely that it's the creation of the freedom environment and the author, the publisher, the environment that feeds the artist. Because we care about freedom so much that I personally think that my other fellow lawmakers are the same way, that if you narrow down the freedom zone, the individual and society will disturb the whole body, just like the shoe that's squeezing the foot. So you can never observe progress in a society or an individual where you narrow the freedom field; you narrow the social space; you narrow the economic field; you narrow the art field; you narrow the cultural area; you narrow the growth; you narrow the freedoms. You shouldn't be doing that, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0080par0113	You're the one who created that environment!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0078par0114	I value the politics of my beloved Hamzacebi. I value the politics of my beloved Shandir. I value the politics of my brothers very much. But sometimes, indeed, sometimes, I want to say that I don't think it's right to develop a political style that would harm their party.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0081par0115	Didn't you insult Turkesh from the stand? Mind your own fucking language!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0078par0116	With that dignity, dear friends, there must be nothing on earth that we cannot discuss. What Mr. Hamzacebi just stressed is important. Dear friends, we never want to mix the institution of religious politics, and we're against it. We want to distinguish the relationship between religion and religion by actually opening the scissors quite wide, but it probably doesn't bother anyone that we're on the side of the religious politician. That's what we do, guys.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0082par0118	That's what we're looking for, a religious politician! Honest, pious, true to his word!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0078par0119	Well, that's you, that's us. We'll all be trying to make each other better, hopefully. I think we have a lot to take and give each other. Dear friends, our country is slowly throwing away its paranoia. So it's a country that's been hit by ten years of periods. Never looking for a potential criminal in the past, creating a past, friends, won't get us anything. It's our confidence that we face the past and not make the same mistakes. History is not a book of praise or blasphemy; history is an example and a lesson. Another person, friends, should never forget -- interestingly, now that the world's democracies are talking, trying to develop new methods -- the type of human being that the public boasts, however, requires a great deal of respect for you, even if it is a hundred and eighty degrees opposite. So, friends, we all have to try to make our own when they're not, by melting languages, religions, ethnities in a fraternity hoop. In all revelations... pay attention, fellas, maybe we're getting a little away from each other for this: My dear friends, there is no understanding based on tension, based on local, position, ethnicity, that can never be guided by the understanding that says, "Dear Diarya, there is no reductionist, local, local, ethnitist." Now, perhaps our tiny little difference is that the other revelations and the prophets are sent to one region, one community, the other revelations, but the revelation of our civilization, which we're all really proud of, if you'll notice, is universal, and so is its messenger, and so is his messenger. So, like other communities, we have no luxury, friends, we have to say "Külüllün" as well as "Kurdish Kurd, Ashy Turk, Ashy Laz, Ashy Circik." So, if we catch this language, if we can catch the language of all people, I think we can find a cure for our situation as soon as possible. Dear friends, their library on this compilation has already spoken to both the Minister and our fellow speakers. Let our CHP friends take this as a joke, they set us up on the commission, or we would have voted all the clauses there, and we would have discussed them ourselves, and we would have ended them here in a short time, but now, in front of our dear friends, look, we brought them in because we didn't deserve that insecurity, and we would have corrected them with the motions here. With that respect, I hope and wish that the current law be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0083par0128	Thank you, Mr. Flying. Question-answer...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0084par0130	Mr. President, before we pass... Mr. Orator has also addressed our group with a name, a name, a proxy name, as well as a language and concepts, and I would like to answer to him.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0083par0132	I listened very carefully, but anyway... we started this. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0084par0134	Mr. President, he's actually saying some very heavy things, very heavy things.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0083par0135	I mean, I've been paying a lot of attention, but here you go. Two minutes, Mr. Kaplan. And you can answer another answer without even giving it a chance to...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0085par0140	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I strongly condemn the mentality of a fellow congressman in a series -- I really can't find a word to say -- to reflect this way; that's one. Second, we're all equally responsible for the language and style he uses against all elected MPs. Look, Mr. Orator, he's been talking here, but I wish he'd stick the needle in himself and then screw up the opposition, which is what I really wish. If you invite your party presidents, who call the elected MPs Zerdust, to the right way, you will also contribute to the assembly's manners. So he turns around here, and he's hurting himself with the way some other opposition group is acting, and he's like, well, doesn't that sound like he's hurting the ruling party? It's... there's a minister coming out here while they're having these talks, and he's opening up a discussion of the ten-bit thing to elected lawmakers. ▪ Who's a dime? Who's cheap? Of course it's not true, but shouldn't you condemn the style? Where were you when the discourse was made? So what I'd like to say from here is that if you have any intention of teaching other groups about this, you're going to correct your own language first. And respect the languages. You will not fall into the trap of denial vandalism, which says it is not the language of civilization. Vandalism is denial, assimilation, showenism, denial of languages, cultures, identities. You will not fall for this trap. Well, that's a warning from us. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0086par0150	Moving on to QA. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0087par0152	Thank you very much. Mr. President, first of all, Mr. İstanbul MP Nur Serter, we, as the National Movement Party Group, are strongly and with hatred condemning the incident that was reflected in the newspapers today. I don't think it's a reprimand, and I think it should be punished legally. My question to the Minister is, Mr. Secretary, you know that the field, a very special element of our culture and our cultural life, has to be kept alive in a very difficult situation. Today, especially in Istanbul, the fields around the White House have to close under the city's high-rent rent revenues. At this point, a measure has to be taken. Do you have any precautions? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0088par0156	Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0089par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, in Tekirdağ Province, Çorı district, there's a cultural center that you founded six years ago, which is in rough construction and looting. The thieves left no plumbing, no glass frames. Do you intend to complete this? Also, there was a restoration project of the Fatih Mosque in Çorı district; there is the Mosque of Fatih. When is this going to be a tender? The 40lareli district has a high rate of reading and writing, and the public goes to libraries very intensively, but the libraries in Pınarhisar, Pehlivanköy and Babaeski districts are understaffed. There's also a library in Lüleburgaz, the Universe is eight, and Ahmetbey's towns are closed because there's no staff. In Demirköy district of Kırklareli, there's a Fatih Documentary, a restoration study that turns into a snake story. Do you think you can get a grant and finish it as soon as possible?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0090par0162	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0091par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, it is said that monuments at the Nemrut summit will be moved and duplicated from time to time. Do you intend to preserve them in place? A second question is due to World Mother Language Day: Tens of thousands of settlements in Turkey have been changed after the September 12th regime. When do you plan to return the names in this native language? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0092par0167	Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0093par0168	Minister, Malatya is an important and branded city that has contributed to Turkey's culture and art with the artists it has raised besides being the world's apricot capital. Hatice Aslan, Kemal Sunal, Ilyas Salman, Kenan Illum, Jasmine Yalçın, Melike Zobu, Sumer Tilmac, and Malatya, who produced theatre and cinema artists such as Ünal Cube, began to function as a state theatre tour a few years ago. Malatya, a town of such important artists and districts, must be established and given a position in an absolute state theatre. I think Malatya has already earned it. In this regard, I ask that Malatya be given a permanent state theatre and a staff. Also, there is a cultural center in Malatya Akçadağ, which began in 1992, still unfinished. And I'm bringing this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0094par0171	Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0095par0172	Thank you, Mayor. Dear MPs, why is there no collection library in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia? You've got 10 MPs out of Şanlıurfa. The University of Harran is a really well-known university in the world. Erzurum in the same way, Diyarbakir in the same way, Iconya in the same way. Shouldn't these provinces have a compilation library? 2) Don't you need a compilation library in Şanlıurfa Province? 3) What is the reason for the creation of the collection library in Şanlıurfa, even though the physical possibilities of the province of Şanlıurfa are available? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0096par0177	That's right.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0097par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask our Minister, when will the restoration of the Niksar Castle in the province of Tokat and the restoration of the ancient city of Sebastopolis be completed? That's what I want to know. The second question is: During the Liberation War, Buhara and Samarkant Turks in Central Asia sent some money, three swords, and a Koran with gold-plated writing to help our country. The Golden Koran was given to the Grand National Assembly Library of Turkey by Karim Ataturk, one of the three swords to himself, one to Ismet Inönυ, and one to the commander who went to İzmir, who delivered İzmir. My supply is that these three swords are now unknown, but the Qur'an is now in the Grand National Assembly Library of Turkey. With the Koran and three swords, there is also an article on the back page of that Qur'an'an, Mr. Minister, about why it was sent, and can't these be put in the Memorial Museum of Salvation? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0098par0182	Mr. Cherry...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0099par0183	Mr. Günay, you've been the Minister for years, you're the head of the execution, and you're the İzmir MP, although if the CHP hadn't filed a motion on the commissions or criticised it, you would have shut down the compilation library in İzmir because the building of the National Library was inadequate. Why didn't you think of building a new building all these years instead of shutting it down? Are you measuring this with the limits of your imagination? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0098par0185	Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0100par0186	Thank you. Minister, there is no museum in the province of Bingol, which dates back to 2000 BC, where the cultural fabric and historical heritage of the city is exhibited. Do you have any work on this? Likewise, in the Karliova district of Bingol, there is a second best-watched sunrise in the mountains of Bingol. Due to lack of funds in this area, the sunrise festival was not held last year. There are preparations for the project, which will be an international festival this year. We need your Ministry's support on this, and we'd like your opinion on that. Do you also have a study of the Cypriot Castle, which is in the province of Bingol, and of the Palace of the King's Queen, in the youth, and of the Turmination of Sazena, and of Longdere Falls? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0101par0191	Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0102par0192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, Kütahya Vahit Pasha is one of the major writing libraries of our country, the Public Library Fuzuli, Baki, Nabi, Ali Shir Nevaî, and a very important library with the courts of the greatest poets of Turkish literature. However, this library needs a very serious amount of material and spiritual support. Is it possible for this library to be supported and repaired in 2012? Can this bill also be included in the Kütahya Vahit Pasha County Public Library? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0103par0195	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0104par0196	Minister, 200,000 artifacts are waiting in the warehouses and waiting to be exhibited. The Izmir mega museum is still unaccounted for. Will the mega museum open in Izmir, during your time? So my second question is, where are you at with your work on the development plan for the sub-FXPO site still failing? That's what I want to know. Three: Even though we are ready to contribute at the point in the historical market law, your constituency, Paying, such as Bergama, Tire and Underbelly, needs the support of the law of historical markets, rising rapidly. Where does that leave us? I want to improve cultural tourism, you said. What is the concrete project that you have done in İzmir to improve cultural tourism? What studies are currently being carried out for cultural tourism? I'd appreciate it if you'd answer that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0105par0201	Mr. Nazlıaka...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0106par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, strongly condemn the attempt to identify the name of our beloved Istanbul MP, Nur Serter, with a character in a series that is completely incompatible with him. I have a few questions I'd like to ask the Minister. One of these: is there any artifact stolen from our museums in 2011? If so, how many artifacts are missing and what artifacts are missing? Another question: Museums were visited by 26 million people in 2010. In our capital city, Ankara, the number, unfortunately, is only about 350,000, so it has a rate of about 1.5 per cent. Is there any kind of mind map of why museums are so few visitors in an entire capital, and is there any study to increase it, to replicate it? If there's any time left, I'd like to ask you one more quick question. You know, in Turkey, bureaucratic...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0107par0208	Mr. Serker...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0108par0209	Mr. President, I thank you from the bottom of my heart for your heartfelt words and for your sensitivity to me.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0107par0210	Don't mention it...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0108par0211	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I would like to thank Mr. Shandir, my dear brother Aylin Nazlıaka. Of course, I also thank Mr. Ismet Flight for his sensitivity. But I'd like to remind Mr. Flight. Indeed, he gave a warning about freedom fields and politics. But, please, don't let the Prime Minister hear these warnings. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0107par0213	Mr. Secretary, now it's your turn. Here you go. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0109par0216	Mr. President, my dear friends, I thank my friends very much. I'll try to answer your questions timely, but I've learned that Mr. Serter's personal rights are offensive and indirectly offensive to women in such a television program, a series of individualizations. I'm really sorry. Still, in this day and age, the attempt to make such a false, ugly, inappropriate description is unbecoming of any television station, unbecoming of any broadcast organ. And I really want to express my sorrows and feelings of reproach. I learned here on this occasion and felt the need to express my feelings. Mr. Şandir, the sahatfs are really under a lot of pressure, like many other traditional trade groups. In fact, I know in private about the sahafs in Istanbul. Some book campaigns, even book fairs, often harm the bookshops, especially the bookshelves. They can work themselves up... because there's a book antique going on there, so there's a real culture function beyond just a book sale. What kind of protective measures can we take? Our friends are working on them, but I can't talk about a very concrete development right now. But it's one of the things I'm concerned about and sad about. Our friend, Tekirdağ MP, asked about the Mexican Cultural Center. I laid the foundation for the Chorus Cultural Center, and the municipality took over the next phase. We've brought the cultural center to a certain point, and the municipality has taken it because we're going to continue, but unfortunately, it hasn't. Now we were trying to build the Muratian Cultural Center by government hand. I was wondering if we could make an introduction. It's a big center. I wonder if we're going to do the town hall, and we're in an assessment of what he said he couldn't do, so let's take back the Cultural Center and finish it.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0110par0219	Minister, the city has no intention of doing it.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0109par0220	If he has no intention and no power, then we will complete this work. But the delay is entirely due to the fact that he's under a burden the city can't afford. I'm going to transfer the Conqueror Mosque to my friends about it because it's a restoration project about foundations, not about us. Unfortunately, we're short-staffed in our libraries. We now have a design waiting to come to the commissions. We intend to transfer the district libraries and local libraries of this Anatolian province to private administrations. We're more interested in writing at work, the national library, really the quality of culture, research, the level of library service, and we're looking for people who have a higher level of reading halls to build personnel with private administrations.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0111par0223	Mr. Minister, Lüleburgaz is a very large county, the library is closed.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0109par0224	Yeah. Our friends are recording this. But we're short-staffed. I've been following this around a lot with the Treasury Department. Mr. Firat has spoken of Nemrod. Now, my dear friends, Nemrut is really one of our very unique cultural heritages. UNESCO is also on the World Heritage List. 2. They're actually sculptures that were made 200 meters high 2,000 years ago. Now there is a common practice in the world for the preservation of cultural assets, archaeological artifacts, if they are architectural artifacts, but for the preservation of portable parts in museums. Some of our friends say that because they don't know much about the land, the climate conditions: either make a glass preserve here, or make a plastic preserve; no, concrete one, build a museum around it, keep it there. We can't do permanent construction in the first degree of archaeological field. And the climate conditions there, if we don't preserve them, destroy them in summer and winter, severely destroying them. We don't have a final decision on this, but we're working on alternatives, thinking that they're finally a statue and should be protected in a special way. Science will decide that, but I saw Nemrut (Nimrut) twenty-five years ago, and I saw it four or five times in the next four or five years, and I know it's worn out today according to 25 years ago. If one twenty-five years remain like this for another century, if it remains as it is today, we will truly be subject to the plague against humanity, against our country, against our world. Let's get rid of prejudices, make a serious scientific decision similar to the practices of the world. If you'll excuse me, I care about Nemrod, and my friends know that very well. We're following it very closely, and we're going to try to make a final scientific decision. Protective measures so far keep me awake in my bed, so the measures that are being taken there, the suggestions of the universities, are not yet convincing for us. I guess it's Mr. Agha, isn't it, fellas? Yeah. The State Theatre has opened in Van. Yeah, he started a traveling tour scene. Now, my friends, I would very much like the entire Parliament to listen to this. The State Theatres were founded in 1948. From 1948 until 2003, 50, 60 years in the work that passed by, 25 scenes opened from 1948 to 2003, established and tour 25 scenes. From 2003 to 2007, my predecessors had opened nine more scenes. I bought the State Theatres with 33 scenes. Thirty-three scenes are now up to 58. So from 1948 to 2003, I've opened a new stage from 2007 to today. But there's no way we can open all of this with a staff. What are we trying to do? Every weekend, in Malatya, in Çorum, in Elazığ, in Kayseri, in Manisa, in Aydın, in Turkey, we cast a curtain on 25 new scenes. So the State Theatres have picked up an unprecedented momentum. Of course, if the IRS gives us a staff, we'll turn some of them into regional theaters, staffed theaters. In Istanbul...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0112par0229	Malatian territory.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0109par0230	I want a new stage in Malatya, Antalya, Samsun, somewhere, but please don't forget: I've opened the scene now, which is the same number of scenes that have been opened throughout the history of the republic until 2003, and hopefully by the end of this year, our number of scenes will exceed 60 in Turkey. This is an important development. Mr. Tanal said you didn't think about a library in the southeast. Now, my dear friends, compiling libraries bring an incredible library service, a collection load, certain responsibilities. Let's open a compilation library in the world, or every region. There is no understanding in any country. I have samples. In Australia, Brazil, Canada, the United States, France, India are limited to 1-2-3-4 numbers. We are currently putting as many as seven libraries in Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, and Meclis under this burden. So there is a compilation library everywhere. There is no such thing. Let's ask for a research library everywhere, a themeical new library everywhere, of course, but let's have a compilation library in our province. There's no such perspective anywhere in the world. It is contrary to the concept of the research library. In Harran, but we're doing another study. Harran is very important. Harran is one of the places where the first Turkish Islamic university was founded in the Middle East, and unfortunately in the previous years, even though we had put a great deal of emphasis on Urbana, there was a tremendous neglect on the subject. From this year forward, we will try to capture a rapid restoration in Harran, Milas, Bechin, Kubadabad, and Ahlat of Bitlis, the Ottomans of Anatolia, and Seljuklu. Roma cities, on the one hand the cities of Likya, Karya, Hititit, but on the other hand the Ottoman cities of Seljuk will be tried to rise at a much faster pace than this year and thus the cultural diversity of Anatolia. We're working on the Niksar Castle and Sebastopolis, and I'm guessing it's going to take a few more years because the restorations aren't over in a year. I think I'm clear on the Izmir National Library. It was announced to the press by the Library Manager, who I was the first minister to visit the İzmir national library. I think that's how much we care about Izmir. I think it's concrete. This year we have preparations for a new restoration of the Bingöl, to uncover some historical sites. The writing on the log...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0113par0237	Answer the question of Reshad True.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0114par0238	Mr. Secretary, there was something about the Buhara Turks, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0109par0239	Oh, the Qur'an, we'll look into it. Of course, the inventory of the House is out of our hands. There are national palaces, and the inventory of the House, or the inheritance of the Ataturk, we don't have all of them, but I'll look into it. I mean, we've talked about this before, and it's really interesting, but it's not in our records, unfortunately. Mr. Light's Kütahya... is the Kütahya Library as part of the writing works, but a collection -- I just said -- is not considered for Kütahya. Mr. Sesame asked me if it was the mayor of İzmir Metropolitan, I don't know much, but we're working on a location for the museum.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0115par0242	I asked you, no polemics! I asked nicely!
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0109par0243	He didn't show us a big city, but I'm working on alternatives, so I don't use the term "Mega Museum" either. I don't use the term "french." I refer to the Museum of Ege Civilizations in Turkish, and to Ankara, I refer to it as the Museum of Turkish Civilizations, and I don't use the term Mega Museum. But Smyrna, of course, is a very rich culture...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0116par0245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0117par0246	I want a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0116par0247	Okay, I'll just call the number. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who do not accept... are not accepted, there is enough to decide... accepted, there is enough to decide, there is enough to decide; I have spoken, and I am correcting.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0118par0250	I'd like a word for 60, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0116par0251	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0118par0254	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Istanbul MP, Mr. Nur Serter, was clearly attacked by the use of his name in a television series and a role that the public would not approve of. I condemned this attack on Mr. Nur Serter at the press conference at 11:30 p.m. earlier today. I'd like to make this reprimand in front of lawmakers and in the presence of our nation at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The attack on Mr. Serter is not only an attack on his political identity, but also an inhuman attack on a woman in the name of humanity. I'd like to express that I'm condemning this again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0119par0263	We will now begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 8th article. Amasya MP Mr. Avni Erdemir on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Mr. Hasip Kaplan on behalf of the individuals, İstanbul MP Gülay Dalyan on behalf of İstanbul MP Gülay Dalyan, Manisa MP Selç Özdağ. Here you go, Mr. Erdemir.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0120par0268	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the first chapter of the Replicated Ideas and Arts Compilation Bill, 128 rows, and I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, culture is the most important link between our past and our present as it is with each other. Let us not forget that strong society means strong thoughts, works and values. A society that has no values, no tradition, that can't carry its tradition to its day and reproduce it can't speak to the world, it can't give meaning to the future. As an EC PARTY, protecting our historical and cultural heritage is a matter of great importance that we, who make us who we are, who separates us from others, pass on our unique qualities to the generation after us. Dear lawmakers, our government has done great things in culture in ten years, as in other areas. Our government saw culture as a common function of the state, as well as of our entire nation, giving great support for special cultural formations and activities. Ten years ago, we didn't have a culture inventory on an international scale, and now we have a detailed inventory of our non-substantial cultural heritage in all our provinces. We, of course, are restoring our architectural heritage not only within the borders of our country, but also in various geographys of the world. In 2002, we had 42 cultural centers in our country, which increased more than two stories in our power and reached 98 cultural centers in 2011. The construction of new ones is rapidly underway. Our support for private theatres increased from 850,000 Turkish liras in 2002 to 3.5 million Turkish liras in 2011, more than 4 stories during our government's administration. Again, our ten-year period of power has been the years of action in tourism. The number of tourists who visited our country in 2011 gives us more hope for the future. In 2002, the number of tourists with 13 million in power reached 31 million 456,000 in 2011, and tourism revenue rose from $8.5 billion to $23 billion, and the entire record of our power has been broken. Of course, these accomplishments did not occur on their own. Behind this success story, our government, our Prime Minister, our Minister, the Ministry bureaucrats have been a significant contribution. For there is not a building that does not fall on its wages. There's no success that comes after sleepless nights. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the most important things we've done is the Head of the Writing Arts, which we've established to preserve the artifacts in better health. Because writing works are the memory records of our nation. Our culture, our history, our art and literature, are the first-hand sources of our science world, our writing. To protect our writing is to protect our history, our literature, our culture. It's about scientific experience and taking care of our savings. The President of the New Writing Arts Foundation, which we have established, serves effectively as an expert in the field as a residency institution. The presidency quickly completes its organisation in the form of three district managers and fifteen writing libraries. We believe that by 2023, this institution will be one of the world's leading experts in writing. Dear lawmakers, one of the best things we've done as AK PARTY ruling in the field of culture is the Yunus Emre institutes all over the world. These rapidly established and flourishing institutes promote Turkish culture on one hand and make significant efforts to make Turkish a world language on the other. Hopefully, by the year 2023, we'll be able to open the Yunus Emre institutes on all continents and major centers of the world. By the time we reach the 100th year of our Republic, our human will have the confidence to have his own values and to view the world as a cultural interaction field as well as as his own field of knowledge and work, and there will be a social structure in which everyone can access culture and art activities. Dear lawmakers, today's Pronounced Ideas and Arts Computation Act, which does not respond to the needs of the day, the Law No. 1934 and 2527, is being lifted from force, bringing an arrangement to respond to technological innovations and new needs in accordance with the conditions of the day. Because we believe that gathering, hiding, announcing, being offered and being passed on to future generations is one of the most important tasks of the state. Because our century is an age of knowledge, there is a rapid production and use of information around the world today. The rapid increase in information makes it both necessary and difficult to track and prepare materials published, published, and distributed in our country. In this direction, the law is being updated and covered by new replication methods for replicating national collections, preserving cultural heritage, gathering material that can be erased from human memory, and creating national memory and using it as a resource. On the other hand, the cost of the work given by this law is taken into account in determining the profit, in order to lighten the financial burden of free collection copies to publishers. Dear lawmakers, everywhere that connects us to our past, our roots, our profession, to the future, there is the power of the EC PARTY. In the Balkans, in Africa, wherever we are, there are AK PARTY Powers. Our power is on the road to Orhun Books, the first written documents. Wherever there is a value that makes us who we are, we are the power of the AK PARTY, wherever there is a bridge that connects us to the future, we are the root, to us, to us, to the past. It's actually an epiphany of our conservative democracy. With these feelings, I wish the law to be good for our family and our country, science, culture and art, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0121par0282	Thank you, Mr. Erdemir. Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0122par0286	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the first chapter of the Replicated Ideas and Arts Compilation Law Bill 128 rows. I hereby salute the High Council. It is an effective, healthy and complete collection of information about our country's cultural presence, an attempt to discipline the foundations of its transfer to future generations, its hiding, its protection, its preservation, its organisation, and its service to society's knowledge and its benefit. In Article 8 of this bill, the library of the Istanbul University Library and the İzmir National Library are part of reason and reason, including the draft text. The ideas and works of art that form national and cultural assets are the acquish of the Turkish nation. It is the duty of both society and the state to transfer this acquish from yesterday to today, from today to tomorrow. With compilation laws, it is only possible for governments to carry out their duties effectively and in good health. I'd like to approach the subject from another point of view, a couple of messages, actually, relevant. We're all historicalists. So, about three or five people need to appreciate and perceive that it's the product of a historical acquish. We're the ones who made it from yesterday to today. People who don't have yesterday don't have futures, and neither do societies. The Turkish nation is the link between yesterday and today and tomorrow, and that bond builds us. Look at it this way, we've all had about three, five, seventy years, eighty years -- God give us more -- a lifetime, but a nation has been flowing for two thousand years. So it's reasonable to think of this community as being dominated by the yesterday, the present, tomorrow, by seeing society as if it were a peaceful entity, when we were saving on this nation or building on an idea. In this regard, it is safe to say that in our Eastern culture, a healing basis applies. Our faith is largely based on preacher counsel. In the old educational system, there was the thought and feeling of having faith in what we called the "ruberu" or hearing from ear to ear, and that was true. But its validity, the fact that this maturity, which we're talking about, has lost its validity significantly today, has emerged a whole new approach with the introduction of new techniques and methods, which requires that this cultural and historical acquish be passed on to generations in a serious way that needs to be considered important and evaluated. The globalized world has broken the monopoly of knowledge, information has been democratized. With the compilation bill, everyone will have access to this information in a much easier, cheaper, and more rapid way. This will allow both our people to become more conscious and access the source and get direct information from the source and use it, which is not a simple job and a small job. So I'd like to stress that we strongly support this bill. Dear lawmakers, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a few issues concerning education, culture and art: there will be no developed or undeveloped countries in the world of the future. In the world of the future, countries with global, cultural and artistic memory will be separated and categorized as non-governmental countries. In the future, the efficiency and power of countries will be measured by the amount of culture and art per capita. The recognition of the Turkish nation's cultural and art acquish is an ontological problem in terms of national culture, the collection, the design and prevalence. Cultural captivity eventually leads to economic and political captivity. Each country has three fundamental borders: one is the political border, the other is the economic border, and the third is the cultural border. The culture boundaries of the Turkish nation have always spread to an acquish three times, five times, 10 times larger than the political borders. Today, culture has become more important and active than the economic and armed forces of the nations. In fact -- let me go a little further -- culture is the antidote to national security, democracy, and separatism. I want to underline something here. On his way out of Crimean with the minister, he whispered to the person next to him that Ishmael Gaspara had fallen and had to be put there. I just want to say that the sons of great culture have to act according to the nature of that culture. So this culture is not just the monuments and monuments and monuments that we banged and planted in Asia Minor. This culture is a great culture. The sons of a great culture need to see for themselves the power to carry that culture on their shoulders and expose it with first-class artifacts and prove it. I'd like to ask the Minister here: Mr. Minister, we just received a phone call from the teachers, and we were going into the museums for free until you became Minister, and you became Minister, and you made these places paid. And they're asking Mr. Secretary for an answer. Let's hope we've told them extra that people who are already under the influence of the teacher's low salary and who can barely make a living don't get paid to go to museums or knitting places. What is called soft strength is the power of culture at its core. On this occasion, it is wise to mention briefly how global forces use soft powers to produce hegemonia. Richard Helms, director of the U.S. CIA in 1970, says: "We must compete with other cultural and power centers if we want our values and our way of life to be maintained through the spread of the American values system, the way of life, the way of culture." Multinational companies are our biggest supporters on this road. They also convey and instill part of our legal system and concepts, our political philosophy, our talks, agreements, customs, our understanding of social mobility, and some of the humanities and arts that are unique to our civilization. Dear MPs, people are the carriers of cultures. The impact of cultural presence arises on the behavior of individuals. The quality of individuality is measured by the cultural competence that the individual can show, because in a way, the personality represents a person's attitude towards man and matter. In this regard, expanding cultural boundaries is more difficult than expanding national borders. As of this direction in material culture, spiritual culture is delayed by the change. Such a delay also raises what we call a cultural delay. So our access to the artifacts, the evaluation of these artifacts, the use of these artifacts, and making these artifacts our personal acquish, will also make us narrow down the connection between material and spiritual culture and the scissors. I'd also like to say a few words about universal cultural debates presented as an alternative to national culture. Behind that glorious word, Jack Lang of French culture, there is always a predisposition of justice, which is called universal culture as the alternative or the opposite of national culture. If you can't be first class in your culture, you can't achieve universality. You think you're universal, but when you go back, you're actually defending someone else's judgment. On this occasion -- time is over -- he wishes all of you respect for the expansion and institutionalization of our national culture and art, the Bill of the Compilation of the Proliferation and Arts Proliferation Act.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0123par0300	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Sesame, please. In fact, he hasn't been able to get the transcripts yet, my friends, but in order not to be unfair to you when I'm taking a break, by your word, two minutes, please, without opening a way to answer to someone else. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0124par0306	Thank you, Mr. President. I was just asking a question, and I said, "Mr. Minister, " and I'd be happy if you'd explain it to me when I finish it. To ask such a kind question, Mr. Secretary: Are you asking me the question, asking St. Kocaoglu, the mayor of the city? It is clear who is the subject of a speech that I started at the Grand National Assembly in Turkey. If you want to live a polemic life with St. Kocaoglu in your answer to me, this is not the place for that polymix. Secondly, Minister, I advise you that you are not Minister of Justice and Development, you are Minister of the Republic of Turkey. The ministers of the Republic of Turkey pre-polimise service as a policy requirement; they respond not by the political identity of those who answer, but by the nature of the question they ask. So my advice to you is that you're an Izmir MP and you're a Minister of İzmir, it's very desirable for us to leave the polemics and serve Izmir. If you continue with this polemicist attitude, you will not be able to contribute to İzmir, you may have a message elsewhere. But my advice to you is that serving is the greatest tool of politics. With this understanding of service, if you do your next answers and studies, we will always respect and help you. With these feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0125par0311	One sentence, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0126par0312	One sentence, all right. According to Article 60, I give my word to the Minister.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0125par0316	Mr. President, my dear friends, I didn't say it out of concern for any polemics. There's a fact that we all know as Izmir MP, and there's a fact that we also apply in Turkey: that if local governments and private governments allocate a space, we build a project on it, and then we launch an initiative to do any cultural work. In Izmir, there is such a commitment to us, such a promise, that a space should be set aside. That didn't happen. The Congressman knows the answer to that question when he asks me, I just wanted to remind him. I didn't mention any names, I mentioned the name of an institution, that's all. I didn't mean to make a polemic. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0127par0324	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Lütfi Baydar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0128par0327	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Law to Compiled Ideas and Arts. While the bill was discussed in the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission, we suggested that the İstanbul University Library and the İzmir National Library, which is not part of the libraries that will be sent to the Republican People's Party, should be added to the draft text for the first time, as Mr. Minister stated, to the Istanbul University Rector and the İzmir Milli Library, and we said, "Let's add these to the 8th article, so let's vote on this bill for the first time. But, of course, it was not possible, I would not touch the word of the design. The ruling authorities, who understand it, say we will correct it in the General Assembly. We'll fix it, but I want to make it clear to you that why didn't we put this whole thing through a unanimous vote from the Commission and then debate it in a structure where everyone's unanimous? Now, I'm going to try to explain the understanding of these friends, where they look at life, and how they look at it, with the thoughts of a 2,500-year-old philosopher. Aristotle speaks of four kinds of democracies in his book "Politica" (Politica), the first three of these four kinds of democracies have power in the hands of the poor majority, but still the rule of law is accepted, and the fourth kind of democracy is the worst of democracies. The worst of democracies, according to Aristotle, is the form of governance by demagogues, whose laws are laid aside, whose will is exalted above the law and who direct the people directly in all matters. It is the political leaders, or demagogs, who are the leaders of the political party, who are responsible for this evil course. Thus, the worst form of democracy, the will of the people, the will of the majority, the will and the will of the majority, or the faith and values of everything comes out when the only measure is made. In a democracy like this, people who think they're in control of the majority get what they want. For example, if demagog wants fascism, fascism comes, the Constitution is suspended; demagogues who say what is right and what is not right in legal matters, who is guilty and who represents the will of the people themselves. In short, if there is no other power above the will of the people and those who claim to represent the majority of the people in a country, the Constitutional clauses can be prepared based on the belief of this demagogue. In such a case, if the existing laws are an obstacle, the higher judicial bodies are accused of preventing the will of the people. If necessary, a referendum can be held, allowing the people's will to be granted in high judgment. If they're the only ones against it, they're accused of being enemies of the people, of their own interests, of being the elite minority or anti-democracy. Therefore, if the government represents the will of the people, any decision that the government has made is meant to be not subject to the control of the Constitutional Court and other high judicial bodies, even if it does exist, even if it does exist. But let's not forget that all of this is a reflection of the tyranny of those who seek to take possession of a state, a government, an executive, and a judge. But no one who yearns for tyranny would say that I want to be a tyrant or a dictator. On the contrary, I am the voice of the people, I am the defender of freedom, and I am the savior of the poor and oppressed people. One day he opens up Kurdish, one day he opens up Roman, steals a finger of honey in the mouth of freedom lovers, one day he brings the law, and the next day he says there is no democracy without secularism. One day he compares democracy to a vehicle that will lead to a train, and another day he talks about advanced democracy, and everyone promises freedom in everything. As Plato pointed out, it is this desire for freedom, which is what he considers to be the most important thing to destroy democracy, just as the passion for oligarchy, which cannot be satisfied with anything but wealth. When such a democracy and those who rule the people can't meet every desire for freedom over time, the public starts blaming them. The desire for freedom pushes the boundaries, evolves rapidly, and eventually transforms democracy into slavery. The reaction of extreme freedom is nothing but extreme slavery in man and in society. Tired of poverty, injustice, and failure to keep promises, the people begin to seek a savior, resulting in a more corrupt state order than the majority. Some of the ways and some of the advice given by sycophants to protect their power are mentioned in Aristotle's book, politics. Aristotle says that one of them is to destroy those who stand out among the public, who have an independent view, and to get rid of men who have independent views; not to allow citizens to gather in associations for social, cultural, or so on, because these are places where independence ideas and self-esteem flourish and flourish. Similarly, send spies among the public to be aware of everything that is going on in society. If you do so, the people will be afraid to hear what you say and speak less freely. Other traditional ways are to provoke conflict among those who might oppose tyranny, to confuse friends, friends, class, wealthy people, and to keep their nationality in poverty so that they don't have time to rise up. For example, the pyramids built by the pharaohs in Egypt and the advertising activities of the Samosian Polycrates are similar to today's TOKI practices. Aristotle goes on to say: "Tirites are not friends, they are merely sycophants. Tirana cherishes the sycophant. Therefore, the tyrant loves those who lay before him. An independent and free-spirited person wouldn't be willing to do such things.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0129par0336	Mr. President, aren't you going to invite me to the point?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0128par0337	Precious people become friends, not sycophants, but typical tyrants don't like people who are serious and prone to freedom. He considers himself the sole authority. If someone claims that they have the right to speak their own mind freely, it's as if they're diminishing something from a tyrant's superiority and absolute mastership. Besides, tyrants are more interested in eating with strangers than their own citizens, because their own citizens are his secret enemies. Those who argue that there is no higher power than the will of the people are, in fact, those who long for the dictatorship of the people and such tyranny, not forward democracy. The fact that people can't reach absolute maturity, the way we take the difference of opinion and thinking, the same way that we have to accept the existence of different ways of living as normal and see it as a right. If you do not harm others, you must be given freedom to live in different ways, and an opportunity to experience life in a way that is acceptable to you. As a result, democracy is only reduced to the absolute power of the party, who thinks it represents the most votes in the multi-party electoral system and the will of the people within this system, and those who come to power in this way are able to view the desires and demands of the majority that they virtually represent above the law, democracy in that country is replaced by public dictatorship, and the public dictatorship is replaced by tyranny after a while. The concept of imposition in the Civil Code is the declaration of tyranny in Turkey, when a person is bound to the Prime Minister by the MIT Law. In doing so, the understanding that even though the communities that have supported them so far have not been openly declared a scapegoat under the table shows that tyranny cannot tolerate any different and conscientious views within itself. Therefore, we have to accept modern democracy as a form of democracy beyond the representation of the multiparty electoral system and the will of the majority, but only as a form of democracy that guarantees the fundamental rights and freedoms of those in the minority. The existing Constitution and the laws derived from them may be far from meeting such a purpose, but in social, political life, the way to correct the ineffective aspects of the state is to suspend the laws, to use the gaps of existing laws to strengthen your power, not to display a sense of social consensus. Democracy is the art of loving someone who doesn't think only of himself, but who doesn't. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0130par0346	What else does Aristotle say?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0128par0347	I'll tell you one day, Hajji. If you're so curious, I'll tell Aristotle every day.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0131par0348	Thank you, Mr. Baydar. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0132par0352	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on part one of Law Bill 128. I salute you all. In general, what has been expressed since this clause began to be discussed is actually how we approach culture. In general, culture is regarded as a whole of all kinds of material and spiritual traits that have been poured out from generation to generation by a society in its historical process. Culture forms the identity of a society and makes it different from any other society. Even this fundamental feature actually refers to how culture should be handled in Turkey, but unfortunately in this country, different identities and cultures have always been ignored, more of a perception of Turkish identity, an approach. So, it's not just Turkey's problem, it's actually similar problems all over the world. When discussing the cultural issue, we also feel the need to engage in discussions such as a cultural imperialism, or a cultural assimilation, or cultural corruption. For Turkey, especially cultural imperialism and cultural corruption are one of the issues that needs to be discussed. This is also an important point for both Turkish culture and Kurdish, Laz, Circic culture. It's not just a culture, it's a serious problem to discuss all of this together. We still can't discuss it in Turkey, of course, it's a good thing to just talk about the compilation of replicated ideas and artwork, and it's a good idea to put all these artifacts together in the country and abroad. In this regard, Mr. Sırrıyya Önder, who spoke on behalf of our group, has also expressed his support, but we think that we should also discuss how we approach culture in Turkey. So perhaps we should discuss cultural assimilation very seriously here. Because the dominant Turkish culture is a pressure on other cultures, and the approach that defines everything that's happened so far on Turkicity, unfortunately, is also a serious problem on the culture issue. That's why so far there's been a very serious assimilation policy on Kurdish culture. Armenian, Laz, Çerkek, Georgian, other peoples' cultures have had serious assimilation policies, and many have had results. There are parts of it that don't work out, but we can see that this fight is still going on. Especially our friends mentioned it at first, yesterday was Mother Language Day. The native language is one of the fundamental parts of culture, and many languages that are being spoken in Turkey today are unfortunately facing loss. The Kurdish language is still under pressure. We just saw his example today. Today, in Diyarbakır, a group of friends, including our General Centre executives, Derik Mayor, were brought to trial, and the obvious conclusion was: the case was postponed to 30 April before our friends could even be identified because of the Kurdish crisis in the court. We've been watching this since 2009. In Turkey, is it a Kurdish language, or is it not a Kurdish language in the courts? The latest is a civil language brought to the debate by the AKP government? In fact, we have to carry the product of a serious problem mindset. Our friends are still not allowed to defend themselves. Now, in a situation like this, it's important how much we protect our real cultural wealth. Of course, when we're talking about this culture, language is important, mentality is important. From what point of view, what mentality are you looking at? Therefore, it is important to improve Turkish culture; yes, it is important, but it is also important to improve Kurdish culture. So all these cultural riches are also the wealth of the Republic of Turkey. As long as we don't deal with it, it's not acceptable to put a culture ahead of everything, assimilate or corrupt others, or suppress them. Turkey needs to discuss this more seriously than ever. Congressmans, look, the editor-in-chief of the Azadiya Welat newspaper has been sentenced to 166 years last term, only because of the release of the Kurdish newspaper. So that's how you punish a country, in fact, its culture, its language. Today, we have to relive this process again because the editor of the newspaper Azadiya Welat failed to hold the right to defence in his native language. Turkey, we hope, will end this shameful thing, its history in some way, and will view all cultures within Turkey as its own culture, but not the same culture, but without assimilation, but without corruption. Kurdish, Turkish, Laz, Çerkek, Armenian, Georgian, Roman, all cultures are also culture of the state of the Republic of Turkey, that no culture is superior to any other culture, that it cannot be quantitatively more or less, I think it's one of the most basic things. From that point of view, I'd like to remind you once again that he's on this stand. Congressmans, another issue: Of course, we have to talk about language and identity in Turkey as we talk about this culture all the time. One of Turkey's most fundamental problems is still the problem of democracy, which arises from the denial of language, culture and identity. In particular, the Kurds suffer the most, and in order to draw attention to it today, we say at every opportunity that the pressure on Kurdish culture in Turkey, the compulsion, is also the cause of war, so that the pressure policies should be abandoned. On this stand, we may have been brought up many times with the following accusation: "You take this matter every time and you connect with the Kurdish issue. " Yes, because, lawmakers, this issue is still relevant to the Kurdish issue. Look, we went on hunger strike here on Monday and Tuesday as MPs of Turkey's 4th largest party in this Parliament, to point out one thing: our Şırnak MPs, Mr. Selma River and Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldı are in prison for peace in this country, -- look, I draw your attention to it, not for himself -- let our run improve or get out of prison. We've been elected MP, why are we in prison? Why are we in this country? It's not that there will be real democratisation in this country without the Kurdish issue being resolved, it's that the bans on our people, language, identity, culture should be lifted, the war policies should end quickly and take steps for peace. We decided to put our whole body under stone, not just our hand, what our Selma River friend said. I think that the promise should be discussed by Parliament. Are you aware, Congressmans, that the two members of this Parliament have committed their own body to death in an indefinitely, unchanging hunger strike? Now, how comfortable are our friends sitting here? It's not an easy decision, it's not an easy decision to put your own body to death, but in this country you have to die or put yourself to death to draw attention to problems. Now, we were on a hunger strike on Monday, at our headquarters on Tuesday, just to point out the problem, but it wasn't on Turkey's agenda, it couldn't go beyond just being news in newspapers or on TV. We're wondering when this Parliament will start discussing this problem. Not only do we have expectations from the ruling party, we have expectations from the opposition party. If we're really going to live together, then if we're going to protect our multi-identified multicultural structure together, if this means more than just an inspection, the collection of all identities, all the works of all the cultures into a building, which is that if this is our life itself, we're going to have a lot of different identities, cultures, and if we're going to live in a brotherhood of equality together, we're going to have to talk about it, but we're going to do something like we don't have any problems here, as if we're talking about it is just this Parliament. That's why Turkey can't really democratize, so we can't talk about peace in this country, so we're kind of putting up with the pressure on different identities and cultures. Mr. Congressman just told us, so it's natural for us to see the last prayer place in the Armenian cemetery to be scooped up, or to do better in its place, or to do better in its place, so the municipality doesn't give us a place, we're going to tear it down, we're going to give it another place. So, unfortunately, we don't have a serious debate about accepting our differences with his power and opposition, and developing equal law. Just don't do politics on this, and politics on this won't get us anywhere. Congressmans, in conclusion, I'd like to make this clear. Yeah, there's one other thing the Ministry of Culture needs to think about: there's different identities, cultures. Counting the names of these, they have different identities and cultures of Kurds in the Republic of Turkey as well as thousands of works -- including Mem u Zin, as well as thousands of pieces of advertising -- including Mem u Zin. Again, these different peoples also have cultures. I think it would be important for the Turkish democracy to call them and set up a new road map, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0133par0367	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. The first statement on behalf of the individuals is from İstanbul MP Gülay Dalyan. Here you go, Mr. Dalyan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0134par0372	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the first chapter of the Pronounced Ideas and Arts Compilation Act. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, the purpose of compilation is to think of a nation's cultural existence and to ensure that the most efficient and healthy presentation of art products to the public's knowledge and benefit, and the national cultural accumulation to the future generations. The compilation systems of countries are similar, but they differ in various ways. Differences arise in specific areas, such as coverage, obligations, the number of copies to be compiled. In our country, the efforts to control art products through compilation go back to the Ottoman era. On 21 June 1934, the Print Writing and Pictures Compiling Law, adopted under the leadership of the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, has been implemented to the present day, maintaining its original structure, while there have been many developments in the process that require reviewing and restructuring the Law as a way for technological advancements. It is not possible to access new technological information registering environments or assemble the products provided by the Law under the Law by the Law's Law of Printing and Compiling of Prints and Pictures. This affects the credibility of national bibliography, as our country's recent collection of culture and knowledge in digital space has caused some to remain in the dark. What's very important to our country is compilation services, unfortunately, not at the desired level. For example, in 2010, a compilation deficit reached 35 per cent. Therefore, as of the beginning of 2011, a new compilation bulletin has been prepared by our Ministry and has been a significant success in resolving compilation fugitives through this new system. When we looked at the data from the collections, the 2001 book was 12,245, and the current publication was 2,214 -- the total compilation figure -- 44,700 books and 12,558 forms of literature in 2011 -- and a great success in compiling the works that have been published in our country so far. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are proportional to the development of nations, the use of thought and products produced. Think of it with this law, and the gathering of art products, the creation of a complete national collection, is intended to be collected in the hands of the state. This bill will contribute to the creation of a national-level data bank and to promoting our country with more accurate international information. In addition, the monitoring of our country's publishing policy and which direction it is moving in will greatly benefit the public and the researchers in their scientific work. There have been significant developments in publishing and broadcasting as a result of the development of computer and information technologies today. Apart from the methods of printing, a large number of works of science, ideas, and art have been produced with new replication procedures developed by a huge acceleration. The current law does not allow them to be compiled as state copies. The law we are discussing in this framework is also expanded to the extent of compilation, including CD, DVD, film, music tape, slide, electronic broadcasts. In addition, the bill has been dominated by research in Turkey and the compilation of works made in foreign languages by printing and copying abroad. In the current application, the law includes real and legal persons responsible for the press, while also in charge of compiling the publishing houses. A new regulation on local and regional newspapers is envisioned, and the 8th article of the bill is concluded that two copies of these publications will be compiled and one will be collected in the National Library and the other in the district of the province. It's a national duty to claim our historical heritage. With this bill that we're negotiating, I believe we can all share a common sense of the protection of our country's ideas and works of art. On this occasion, I would like to thank all those who have worked hard to prepare this law, which has been discussed since the 1950s, and in the great need, and wish good for our country and our nation, and salute your great delegation and our great nation.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0135par0385	Thank you, Mr. Dalyan. Congressman Selçuk Özdağ of Manisa. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0136par0389	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf due to the Pronouncement of the Pronounced Ideas and Arts Act. I salute you all. From yesterday to today, culture is the way and the sum of a nation's life. If culture is our way of life from yesterday -- we've lived in this geography for a thousand years, we've lived since 1041, in this cultural geography, in this historical geography -- it's not possible for Kurd to assimilated Turkic (Turkishah), because we've been members of the same religion for 1,000 years. Members of the same religion don't assimilated each other, different cultures assimilate each other. Our workers, the people who went to Germany, the people who went to Europe, may be influenced by the Christian culture that lives there, and may be assimilated, but if they still think they're being assimilated, they're wrong, but there is no question in Turkey that Kurdal (Kurdishah), Çerkekin, Laz (Georgian), Armenia, or Turk (Turkish) asymone is assimilating each other. That's why I feel the need to give this warning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Education, science, culture and art, in the development and development of a country, is vital to the preparation of generations for the future. Starting in the early stages of each member of the nation's studies, it will be possible to be equipped with broad knowledge and to prepare for the future in a strong way, primarily with basic education and education within the framework of these elements. It is known that it is not only possible to learn how to knit, but also to enrich in this way through various environments in common education. In this context, it is known that the phenomenon of learning for life has become increasingly important in our country. In providing education, science, culture and art-oriented achievements for individuals in both your knitting and the common teaching, the basic educational institutions and the teaching staff, as well as the libraries, which are each an educational institution, especially in the context of life-long learning, and the collections of these libraries, books, magazines, and encyclopedias, databases, and so on. In this framework, it is possible that the resources of information published in a country are fully available to students, researchers, and the public as a whole, first of all, to be fully identified and then compiled. It is a joyous occasion that in our country, during the early years of the republic, the process has been carried out by the hands of the designated compilation libraries. A while after the launch of the EC PARTY governments, the issue of compilation, based on its importance, has been re-opened and has finally come to the General Assembly for legislation on the issue. Dear lawmakers, indeed, are one of the key issues that is fundamentally affecting our country's present and future within the framework of compilation, education, science, culture and arts. It is possible for all forms and content of science, education, culture and art products published in the country to be handed over to the libraries specified in the framework of legal legislation and procedures, in short. As I have just stated, the basic legislation for the matter, Law 2527, has been worn out and lacking in various care since 1934, when it was adopted. The legislation of this bill, which we brought to the General Assembly after the commission's work, along with its opposition with its power, aims to implement an efficient compilation that can meet the needs of the age. As it is known, in the first phase of the bill, the Istanbul University Library, which is a two-parter of the 5 compilation libraries mentioned under various evaluations, and the İzmir National Library, which is excluded from the compilation scope, has been re-inclusioned here, as agreed in the commission phase. So with this correction, the basis for the collection of our two distinguished institutions will be fully prepared to continue to serve the people of the region, researchers, and finally all of Turkey. The 10th article of the bill provides an administrative fine for each compilation copy, up to 1,000 to 5,000 Turkish liras. The 12th article, however, gives the taxpayers the right to write the costs of their collection. This is an important innovation. We hope and hope that the issue of compilation with the new law is no longer a problem area, and it will not be brought back to the country's agenda with the awareness of responsibility by the publishers, who are the main shareholders of the issue. Because today's collection is not only about education, science, culture and art but also about the future of Turkey's country and its nation. If it is extremely important to use the findings of literature prepared in earlier times for research at various levels today, then today's sources of information may be important in the framework of new research many years after today. The only way to offer this precious opportunity to our present and future generations is to have the books, magazines, and all sources of information in our country fully compiled in the libraries mentioned in the bill. The efficient implementation of this practice is not a luxury, but an important duty to today and our future generations as Parliament. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the bill to bring blessings to our country, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0137par0405	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Moving on to QA. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0138par0408	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is for the Minister. There are important cultural values in the province of Tokat, such as the Cave of Ballica, Taşhan, Sulusokak, Beysakakakak. Is there any study of these values and restorations being done or how much budget has been earmarked for the slap province? That's one of my questions. Second: How many documents on general archives have been translated into new Turkish? How many experts work in the archives? There are also archives in the provinces. Will there be a study of the opening of archives in the provinces? Another question: A commission was established in our Parliament yesterday regarding Internet addiction. One of the most important problems of Internet addiction is children's games. Are there children's games prepared in accordance with Turkish culture and law? Do you do any work on these? For example, are there studies about the life of a Kurdistann? Or that we have cultural values, such as a Ulubatian Hassan? That's what I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0139par0415	Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0140par0416	Thank you. Minister, of course, he answered our question in the previous round, but if the historical artifacts that were made two thousand years ago have been preserved so far in Mount Nemrut, I think with the technology that we have now, there's a quicker way to protect them. I had another question again, they couldn't answer it. During the September 12th regime, I asked that the names of tens of thousands of settlements in Turkey were removed in the native language, and when they would be returned. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0141par0420	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0142par0421	Mr. President, yesterday I joined the struggle against the HESS to protect the land of the people in Tortum Bağbaş. I want to tell those people that I support that struggle, that I'm with those people, and that I'm with Leyla Yalcınkaya, who was wrongfully tried. Yesterday, again, I saw what a great treasure Anatolian was there, and I came across a church from the Georgian Kingdom, which was completed in the year 1001, which was built in Haho. The church is now being used as a mosque. The people in that village demand that this place be restored to tourism. I suggest you see it. It's important. I once again saw how rich Anatolia was in this regard. I wanted to bring this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0143par0424	Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0144par0425	Mr. Minister, the cities of Giresun, Tirebolu and Eynesil are in the middle of the sea. Do these castles matter historically, culturally and in terms of tourism? If so, do you plan to study repairs, restoration, tourism? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0143par0427	Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0145par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just told you that the Kütahya County Public Library is a writing library, but my question was whether or not this place is seriously in need of financial support and whether or not it can be taken into account. I'd appreciate it if you'd give him an opening. My second question was that one of the constellations of the historic Kütahya Castle was recently destroyed. How much funding do you intend to send this year? Can you help me with that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0146par0432	Mr. Havutça... no Mr. Havutça? No. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0147par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister is that the broadcast organs in the middle are trying to corrupt our national and spiritual values, our culture. Should we be glad that we are adapting to this universal culture? And my second question: the provinces of Adana, Kozan, Teke, Saimbeyli, Tuftbeyli, Aladağ. They smell of culture. Isn't it possible to build cultural centers around here with physical and social conditions? Thank you, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0148par0438	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0149par0439	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Balıkesir İvrindi -- in particular -- has many historical sites in districts such as Dursunbey. Do you have any idea of doing any archaeological work around here? They're destroying their cultural assets out there, looking for ornaments, looking for gold, and they're smuggling what they find abroad. Do you think your Ministry should take precautions on that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0150par0442	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0151par0443	Mr. President, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary through you. I'm afraid I haven't been able to answer the questions I just asked. There are two places about the Mega Museum. One, the municipality's point is the area on the upper side of the city's building board, which it's sending to the zoning board, and the former property of Sumerbank, where the Minister stands on top of it. In this regard, where are the studies of the creation of a large museum, a museum of civilizations, where 200,000 artifacts are waiting in storage, regardless of its name? Two: the area for the EXPO, which İzmir is waiting for, is reserved as the figurine. What's the latest on this zoning plan? I'd like to know that, Mr. Secretary. I want to know about concrete projects in terms of developing tourism culture and diversifying tourism and the studies of what we call tourism in İzmir. I also had a question about historical markets.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0152par0449	Mr. Secretary, come in. You have four minutes. As much as you can, you can give the others in writing.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0153par0451	I can only answer one question in four minutes, enough to answer one friend's question.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0152par0452	Yes, quickly.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0153par0453	Mr. Right knows our work at the slap. We're trying to build a museum there. We have hired Bedesten of Arasta from the Foundations, and in this year we will open it. Internet addiction is a problem we all know about. We're working with the Minister of National Education and the Minister of Family and Social Policy. The archives are connected to another administration, so let's ask the relevant management. I've explained my views on Nemrod, so there's no scientific protection project at Nemrod. So maybe we'll continue our search for a new location. Mr. Ağbaba and my other friends -- Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Halaman, Balıkesir MP, our dear friend -- spoke of the cultural wealth of Anatolia. That's really true. And I've been an amateur friend of yours for 20 or 20 years, wondering about Turkey's cultural treasures, and I've been in charge for the past four or five years, and I've discovered areas that I've just discovered in every trip, and I'm really sad about how we're going to catch up with them, and I'm happy about how much wealth we're living in. I want to remind you that at the end of 2002, at the end of 2003, the government's funding for the digs was 2 million TL, 1.9 million TL, instead of the general budget and other supports. I bought it at the end of 2007 with 14 million TL. We saved $48.1 million last year. So where's the $2 million in 2003 and where's the $48 million in 2011? But I think we need 100 million TL.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0154par0459	It's been ten years, Minister. It's been ten years. Don't go over the amount.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0153par0460	We need 100 million TL. Look, the number of places we've dug is growing, the number of artifacts coming out of here, and all of Turkey knows that the number of artifacts we've brought from abroad is increasing, but we still have huge problems in the face of neglect and destruction over the past years. Incredibly rich from Turkey were abducted in previous years. Was there an artifact taken in 2011, our friend said? Nothing significant, thank God, but there are a lot of artifacts in the previous years. One of our friends had another question: there are places whose name has been changed. Of course, I can safely say that the name has been changed during our administration, so there's hardly any settlements in Turkey with its original name removed from the record and a new name on it, but in the old years, before or after 80, there's this kind of damage done, and we're trying to fix them as much as possible in this process. We are trying to return their former names in an approach that will not undermine the integrity of Anatolia. I don't know if I have time for Mr. Sesame's question: We really do have a dream of building a great museum in İzmir, so I repeat, I call it the Museum of Ege civilisations, there is. We're working on alternative areas if the municipality points to this area, if it's not there, if it's not. Of course, our friends need to know that in no museum in the world, not all the artifacts are exhibited in storage. It's 10 percent everywhere, 15 percent, 20 percent everywhere. We catch it from time to time, we fall under it from time to time, but let all the works of the museums be displayed. He's nowhere to be found. There are periodic displays. Some artifacts do not show up because you have 50 of them in your warehouses, you display two of them, and you keep 48 of them in your warehouse. Other than that, we're working on the figurine. Our Ministry has no negligence in figurine. If there's no new stumbling in the cases, I think, if we run into the trial process, we need a new law, we'll try to do it. As for the cultural tourism of Izwar, we are also trying to include Bergama (Grega) in the world's heritage. The work at Bergama is going extremely fast. Efes follows from behind, but Bergama, I think, will travel faster. We have many knitting places in Izmir. There were few edited places, and we're trying to quickly replicate the patterning parts. A new law study on historical markets as well as on all Turkey, shared by Mr. Sesame.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0155par0469	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in chapter one to your separate votes after I've processed the motions on those substances, if there are any. There are two proposals in Article 1, which I read and process in order: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st edition of the Compilation of the 128-Special Numbered Ideas and Arts Act. Article 1. We request and request that the joke be replaced as appropriate. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of our country be added in all languages, after the declaration of our country, in Article 1 of the 128 rows under discussion. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0156par0480	We appreciate it, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0157par0481	Is the government giving you credit, sir?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0155par0482	The commission said, "We do not agree." He said, "The government has put it into consideration." Here you go, Mr. Threeer.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0158par0485	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge in favour of the motion, greeting the General Assembly. Yesterday (February 21st) was the World Mother Language Day, and in our country, we left behind another World Mother Language Day, ignoring all cultural beings produced in that language, ignoring us by ignoring dozens of languages, accepting them as if they didn't have dozens of languages, and allowing children who speak that language to have a mandatory education as if they didn't speak that language. I hope that in the future, in this House, a cultural cradle, the Anatolian and Mesopotamian geography, a democratic constitution to establish the foundation of the brotherhood of the peoples, for our people, for all peoples, in their own language, in their own culture, in their own culture, they can live freely, as brothers. The constitution, which is thought to be done for this, must be guaranteed constitutionally for different languages, for different cultures. We also want to talk about Van's earthquake as part of the works of the Ministry of Culture: the Van Museum is medium-damaged, the theatre building is medium-damaged, Ercish Library, seven churches of historical artifacts, Akdamar Church, castle gate, Van Castle, various sites of different historical mosques, the earthquake damaged. By the way, I'd like to thank the minister for his sensitivity during the earthquake and wish him the best of luck in his work. We're hoping that all of the work within your ministry and all of the renovations in your field of duty and interest will be completed shortly, as the people of Van. I would like to add to the government's general shame about the earthquake: Another citizen lost his life in a tent fire a day or two ago, and I wish him God's mercy, all the Vanians, and his family's condolences. Believe me, the government is responsible for these deaths. I hope such a shameful scene never happens again. I'm saying the first thing the government has to do in order to prevent such shameful landscapes from happening is to have the governor of Van, who's really far from a manager's responsibility removed from office immediately and a director who's sensitive to the public's problems. Again, it went public, and we, the group, the bloc MPs, went on a hunger strike for two days. It seems to me that we need to strike harder to get our voices out to the world and to the country, because we need to do stronger actions, because in prisons, we need to shout out to the world the cries of our friends, political prisoners, who are resisting antidemocratic practices by putting their bodies to death. In order to announce it, we need to do more action and reach wider ground. Because the MPs, the mayors, the political party leaders, the political prisoners who found the tens of thousands, put aside the torture they suffered in prison and acted for the freedom, peace and democracy of this country, and we gave them a time when the world's native language was celebrated.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0159par0493	We didn't understand anything, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0160par0494	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 1st edition of the Compilation of the 128-Special Numbered Ideas and Arts Act. Article 1. We request and request that the joke be replaced as appropriate. Metin Lütfi Baydar (Adün) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0161par0502	Sir, there's no need; it's convenient, it's convenient. And I don't think the motion was necessary because we're already compiling all the literature in Turkey. So we're just wasting time. We disagree.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0160par0504	Okay.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0162par0505	Mr. Tolga Chandar.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0160par0506	Mr. Chandar, please.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0163par0508	Mr. President, I've spent years talking to all the high-profile lawmakers -- as an artist, as a culture person -- about the corruption and foreign culture bombing that has been widely pumped in our country. This corruption, this levellessness, this levellessness, has been revealed once again by the attack on our Istanbul MP, Mr. Nur Serter, where it can reach, where it can reach, where it can reach when it is not controlled. As an artist, it's hard not to rebel against this debacle, this corruption, this levellessness. From understanding a congressman who did this to a friend of ours, let's see how far this goes in the coming days. We wish God to bring about the end of us. Members of parliament, people perceive the world with their tongues, and this language they perceive, they describe it through their language. We've written over these languages for years about how wrong we find it in politics to put pressure on people's native languages, and it's not true. What if he uses it in his native language, or does a country fall apart? If it does not produce different languages within its own society, if it does not see cultural wealth as a part of a whole, there is already a serious problem in that country, the language is in the fifth place, in the seventh row, in the 10th place. The problem is that people in this country respect each other's culture. So I think it's very important for the country's future that we, as members of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, put politics aside and create a common feeling, a common thought on these issues. He spoke of a thousand years of history, my Selcuk friend, our Manisa MP. I'd like to think about taking it a little further back. We're sitting on a 5,000-year-old cultural heritage. Yes, in 1071, we came with Malazgirt, welcome, welcome, but will we reject the pre - thousand years of history? Of course not. The entire 5,000 years of cultural heritage as the cultural heritage of our own country. (x) Words were expressed in a non-English language by the Hajip in this chapter. If we can see it, I think it'll make it easier for our Minister of Culture. On such wealth, it's not easy to build a Ministry of Culture over a 5,000-year-old heritage, over a cultural heritage, but, yes, we do deserve it, we wish it well. Just a moment ago, our Minister said: "We didn't have any robberies in 2011. I'd like to remind him of the Milas heist that I know of. A king's tomb was robbed in Milas, a king's tomb in Kariah. We're all torn up inside, and I'm sure he's very impressed with himself, but unfortunately, this is happening. We'll do whatever we can to make sure that doesn't happen. The Izmir Library has been talked about a lot, that's not what I'm saying, but libraryism has been very common in our region since 4,000 years ago. Look, the Teos Library Seferihasar, the Asklepion Medical Library in Bergama, right now I'm looking at my notes, the Smyrna Library in the center of İzmir, and also the Selçuk Efes Library in Bergama. Starting 4,000 years ago in our country and in the Aegean region, just how common it is to be a librarian in our region... a large portion of the works in these libraries were moved to the Library of Alexandria later, and in the Library of Alexandria -- let the bones be aching -- unfortunately, we lost them all in Julius's fire. We, in the Commission, have agreed, that we would not have had to talk about it until this evening, if only the 8th article had been dealt with immediately in the Commission that day. You can see the consequences of political parties being free of their personal ambitions or personal political approaches and not agreeing on a law even if they come together on commissions. Your political whims have to be put aside, and surely, in the commissions, you have to listen to the word of the opposition. All our friends have said it before, and I will say it with your permission... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...power is everywhere, it's in every society, but there's only one opposition in democracies. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0164par0521	Thank you, Mr. Chandar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion in Article 4 that I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Article 1 of the proposed bill 128 rows. We propose and propose that the joke be added to the head of the (g) bell in all the languages spoken in Turkey. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0165par0532	We disagree, sir. That's why we're doing it, it's unnecessary.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0164par0533	Mr. Steel, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0166par0534	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding Article 4 (g) of the First Section of Bill 128, which we are discussing. I salute you all. It has been years since February 21st, when UNESCO had identified native languages and adopted them as the native language. Although we are a country that signs this, although there should still be a intention in our country to develop different cultures, languages, to provide the opportunity for them to express themselves, I still think that a singular, formal language, a perception that ignores and ignores others, is not a very appropriate situation for us at our point of origin. At this time, just after UNESCO's decision, we discussed the changes in the law or the amendments on February 22nd, I wished and hoped that our Minister of Culture would look a little more positive and warm before anyone else. In the sense that an important decision to bring Mem u Zin (Mem u) to the people of Turkey would be signed, not limited to Turkish, our understanding of redesigning ourselves at the main language point of Turkey was necessary in this sense, that all the produced works were created through all the languages that were created, created because of its isolation policy, were created, were meant to be given the opportunity, meaningful, valuable, but it seemed that as long as our mentality didn't change, our understanding of reshape would also change our own state of mind. We continue to accept the concept of a rigid centrist, monotheist, insubordinate, denier, and instigator of our day as a passage of the day, in which sense we show our attitude towards a mind that forbids identity, culture, language. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the thing that distinguishes us as a human being from all other beings is that we are social beings. So the idea is that we're beings, who interpret, who express their opinion. The language is the most basic thing that we can apply because we're the entity in which we express and organize this expression that we're thinking about, and in the organizational activity, we're going to use it because we're the entity that's expressing its opinion. In that sense, language is honor, honor. It is the duty of the political organism, called the government, to develop, grow, multiply, meet with society, and to develop its thoughts in this language when each man was born from his mother. If this organism works the way a congressman just described it, it'll turn out the other way around. Yes, you may not have assimilated us through Islam at the sisterhood point, but as a Kurdish, I'm not the kind of person who fulfills the rights to be a citizen in this country as an equal, free citizen, not an individual. I'm facing the situation of writing, reading, expressing my native language, because I'm human, and every language is a human being, but it's not democratic, it's not human, it's not philosophical, it's not legal, it's not human. In this sense, I salute you on behalf of my person and the Party of Peace and Democracy, in all the languages spoken in Turkey, on behalf of this law enforcement clause (g).
tbmm-2012-02-22sit03spe0167par0540	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 7 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
