tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, and that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during this time ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's time is 20 minutes. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Tekirdağ MP Özlem Yemişçi, who asked for a statement about the flood in Tekirdağ. Here you go, Mr. Yeshchi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0002par0017	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of myself, off the agenda of the flood that occurred in the province of Tekirdağ from October 22nd to October 24th. I salute your high council. Before we proceed to this sad event, I would like to address the so-called bright people who thought that they were absorbing Ataturk (Ataturk) very well, but who are actually having trouble understanding themselves: the republic has been established for eighty-nine years, and you still don't understand. What don't you understand? You can't just say black to black, white to black. Stop speaking and taking refuge behind the great Leader Ataturk. In fact, we value the main opposition and our opposition parties, and we care about what they say, as long as they don't have an opinion before they know it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0003par0020	Come to the seat, come to the seat. The issue was in Tekirdağ, did we misunderstand? It's about the flood in our Tekirdağ province.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0002par0021	I'm giving you the information that, as the rains began, floods and floods have occurred in our province. As a result, the Centre for Emergency Management and Disasters was immediately convened and began its coordination and activities. Crisis centers have been established in Saray and Çorı district subsidiaries, where they have been able to intervene and coordinate events. Because their homes were flooded, our citizens were first taken to closed sports halls, then placed in hotels in the area under the governor's orders. They will be housed in these hotels for ten days until the paints and paints are completed. The prime minister's AFAD has sent a total of 750 thousand liras to the region as an emergency investment fund. The funds have been issued to our citizens, and this distribution continues. The cost of repairs to infrastructure damage in our villages in the region will still be covered from this aid grant. The Red Moon has sent shelter and basic supplies to the region. Our health department's ambulance and medical staff have always been in the field of duty. As of Monday, psychologists have been appointed to provide social psychological support for the region. In our public buildings, in our schools, we continue to clean and dry. Seven teams of the Department of State and Emergency, Environmental Urbanism, have begun preliminary damage detection and have been assessed at 9,60 locations. Damages in buildings such as our victims' homes, businesses, stables, barns, warehouses, and so on -- light, medium and heavy -- were done within two days, and these studies continue. The applications of our citizens will be accepted by November 9th. In short, our wounds in the area are covered. I would like to thank our Prime Minister, the representatives of our government, and our Governor Tekirdağ, who led the work without a clock in front of our people, on behalf of the people of Tekirdağ, who supported us in the matter. My condolences to all our citizens who were victims of the flood in Tekirdağ. The people of Tekirdağ are not alone, nor will they ever be alone. Mr. President, it's November 1st, the 90th anniversary of the liberation of the largest district of Thrace from enemy occupation. We are proud to experience the 90th anniversary of the liberation of the enemy invasion of our Choor and Sarai counties. This land was taken in blood; there is no price, no label. These glorious days of salvation were taken by challenging the world with the Turkish woman and the Turkish man. Absorbing our independence and our republic is not about talking about it, it's about taking care of it; it's about taking care of it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Those who are too lazy to work should stop talking. Our Republic is not unclaimed. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0004par0034	Thank you, Mr. Yeshchi. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Mersin MP Aytuğ Atıcı, who wants to mention Zonguldak MP Mehmet Haberal's Organ Donation and Transport Week message. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0005par0039	Mr. President, members of parliament, I salute you on behalf of our Republican People's Party Zonguldak MP, Professor Dr. Mehmet Haberal. Of course, it would be appropriate for Mr. Mehmet Haberal to have this conversation during Organ Donation and Transport Week. But since he's in your Silivri concentration camp, it's up to me to do this honorable task. Here's what Mr. Haberal calls you from the persecution hall: Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today I'm going to give you a summary of the final situation regarding kidney and liver transplants in our country. First of all, I'm grateful that my dear professor Dr. Ihsan Wrestler, who founded Hacettepe University and Bilkent Universitys, who had a very important contribution in starting kidney transplants at Hacettepe University, has contributed to this and has left us with great gratitude to the living. I also know a debt of gratitude to the Turkish Grand National Assembly and Senate members of the period, the presidents and vice presidents of the era, the press and the NGOs. They've contributed greatly to the arrival of organ and tissue transplants today. Mr. President, valued MPs, the first kidney transplant from a relative in our country was performed in 1975 by Dr. Mehmet Haberal and his friends. The kidney I brought in from the European Transplantation Center in 1978 and the first kidney transplant from the deceased were performed again as Mehmet Haberal and his friends. As a result of hard work, the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Senate passed Act 2238. The key elements of the law were: It is forbidden to remove or hide tissue or organs for any price or benefit. Those who are 18 years old and are blessed can donate their organs in front of two witnesses. This grant requires permission from family and relatives. The first application of Law 2238 was carried out in 1979 by Dr. Mehmet Haberal and his friends. It's a waste of time to get consent from every patient. That's why we've prepared a new law. According to this law, if there is no one present to obtain permission from the person diagnosed with brain death by the Medical Board, the tissue and organs can be removed without permission. Mr. President, with the release of Law 2594, our country's liver and heart transplants were also opening up. The liver was successfully transplanted to a chronic liver patient by Dr. Mehmet Haberal and his friends, who were taken from a citizen who died in our country in 1988. In 1990, the first partial liver transplant of children in our country and Europe was performed by Dr. Mehmet Haberal and his friends. In 1990, the first partial liver transplant in an adult patient in the world was performed by Dr. Mehmet Haberal and his friends. In 1992, he was transferred from the same organ donor for the first time in the world to both a partial liver and a kidney and a chronic kidney patient. Mr. President, from a single kidney transplant center in 1975, 59 kidneys, 36 livers, 16 hearts, 3 lung transplant centers, and by the way, hundreds and limbs transplanted, along with our cornea and bone marrow transplant centers and even a few stem cells show our country's growth and level of growth in organ transplantation. My recommendations for organ donation are that the Ministry of Health should co-operate closely with relevant organisations -- such as the Turkish Organ Transplant Association and the Turkish Nephrology Association. The Ministry of Health and relevant organisations must also study intensively using written and visual and press for tissue and organ transplants. Organizations must be organised for tissue and organ donation. Hospitals must be trained in emergency services and intensive care. Our citizens must be trusted with doctors and patients. If that sense of trust gets in place, we'll get a lot of distance. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I believe our country will be very effective in the resuscitation of many chronic organ patients, using the laws and available facilities in this matter. That's the kind of value, not only did you violate law, justice and human dignity, but you deprived our Turkish people and medical community of such value, precious AKP MPs. I wish I could think of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0006par0057	The third non-responsored statement belongs to Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Izlu, who wants to speak about the problems of vocational and technical education. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0007par0061	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, the problems of educational institutions and teachers, which were transformed into a sabbatical during the ten-year AKP administrations, continue to remain among the most important agendas of the Grand Assembly. Particularly because of the problems, injustices and victims of high school majors who have not been appointed recently and will be involved in vocational and technical training. Only about 3,900 quotas were seriously victimised by the appointment of 40,000 teachers in high school majors such as history, physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics and so on this year. Because of the new education system, almost all of general high schools have been transformed into Anatolian high schools and the first appointments to Anatolian upper secondary schools have been halted by the Court's decision, high school majors have been left to their usual destinies. With a change of regulations by the Ministry of National Education immediately, the Anatolian high schools must be opened to the first appointment and this victimhood must be resolved. In spite of high KPS scores, the right to change the field for teachers who were employed by the Ministry of National Education during this school year has left high school majors exposed. The victims of these groups must first be relieved of their additional appointment to teach during February 2013. After 12 years of mandatory education laws, AKP governments, who have been talking about the importance of technical and professional education over the past ten years, have made an arrangement that is limited to only imam orator schools, an indication of how they view technical and professional education, which has suffered the most victims during February 28th. Even the candidates for vocational and technical teachers have not been appointed in the KPSs, who have earned degrees in their field for years. The technical teacher's staff, which has been appointed only 3 per cent since 2002, has to be increased in the appointment of new teachers. As it was not enough for the Board of Education to appoint graduates of the technical education school to teach technology and design in 2011, it was limited to the year it was mentioned, and in the February 2012 appointment of a teacher, there were nearly 350. The graduates of the vocational and technical education faculty are in the technical services class of the State Officers' Law, but are also available in the public administration class. This class has no response in the private sector. With recent decisions, construction chiefs and occupational safety experts who had previously been known to graduates of technical education have been revoked, and technical teachers working in these areas have been left in a difficult position. The right of engineering to graduates of the technical education school, known by Law 3795, has been removed from their hands since 2002, as a result of the lack of teaching staff and the fact that the program has never been opened for reasons such as lack of teaching staff and so on. Although technical education schools were announced to be closed in 2009 and to be replaced by technology faculty, the graduates of the faculty will be named engineers, there has yet to be any regulation on the former graduates of the closed technical education schools. The absence of programmes for vocational and technical education programmes has blocked technical teachers' academic progress in their field. Despite four years of bachelor's training, technical teachers, technicians, or technicians have been forced to work with employees with their titles. Hence, their special service compensation and collateral damage must be paid. Dear lawmakers, there are also great difficulties in providing educational personnel at private education and rehabilitation centres. The ministry, which assigns tutors at private education schools, is bound to satisfy the teacher's deficit at private education and rehabilitation centres with the same application, which is especially urgent. I invite the government to be sensitive to solving such problems, and I offer my regards again by inviting the Supreme Assembly to be sensitive to the solution of all technical teachers' problems.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0008par0069	Thank you, Mr. Light. Congressmans, I have a minute to make a promise to our friends who have entered the system. First place is Mr. Yellowhead. Here you go, Mr. Yellowhead.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0009par0075	Mr. President, on 18/9/2012, our Biga district of Çanakkale, and three of our citizens lost their lives due to the flood. Despite damage assessments of our citizens who have been damaged in our district have been made over a month and a half later, the transactions on their land have not been paid. They're concerned that they're still victims and that the river reforms and other infrastructures are not being done, that they're going to flood again at any moment. It is expected by our citizens when these will be damaged and identified and helped and how long they will be given. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0008par0077	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0010par0080	Mr. President, after Sunday, Turkey got caught up in a barricade issue. Turkey's presidential and prime minister crisis broke out because of the barricade. Is this barricade so important? I'm going to congratulate someone in Turkey. I'm not going to celebrate either. Is this barricade important enough to cause a presidential crisis in Turkey? Not the President should blame the Prime Minister, nor the Prime Minister should blame the President; not a government crisis, not a state crisis. Mr. Bulent has removed the barricade from the Çankaya Police Department. The friends who were there told me. Don't let him go to the President for nothing, Prime Minister, and the President won't speak to the Prime Minister. Let them put an end to the matter between them, and let them pay the bill to him. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0008par0082	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0011par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Every day, hundreds of vehicles are being pulled into the seven-yard parking lot on the grounds that they were wrongfully parked by the Traffic Foundation. In particular, the inhabitants of cities such as Istanbul and Ankara are having great trouble with the issue because the practice to relax traffic further upsets the current traffic. It is also one of the most common challenges in which the vehicles are damaged during the withdrawal and cannot be proven that the damage was caused by the tow truck. It's also unknown to us what vehicle was driven to and from within the vehicle that was infringement of the park. Payment is 142 liras, only cash is accepted in parking lots. He wants to know what the traffic foundations doing the citizen withdrawal are doing with the income they're making, and what the legal basis for the withdrawal is. As a citizen whose car was towed, I'm curious about those questions. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0013par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Tekirdağ AKP MP Özlem Yemisci said exactly this: He claimed that we had taken refuge behind Ataturk, and that we did not understand Ataturk. However, the AKP is trying to make Ataturk (Ataturk) forget, banning wreaths on monuments even during national holidays. The AKP is afraid of Ataturk, and the secular, democratic, modern Republic of Turkey, which was established 89 years ago, and these principles. And let them continue to fear, for no one can destroy the principles of the secular, democratic, modern Republic of Turkey in this country, nor can they erase it from the hearts of people. The Republic Day meeting and its enthusiasm show it. Besides, today is the anniversary of the Latin letters and the removal of the reign. I honor those who have made all these revolutions, and I respect Ataturk and his friends, and the founders of the Republic of Turkey. We wouldn't be sitting in a coven like this today if they hadn't done their duty.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0015par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, there were expressions here that would mean contempt for the Republic. A friend of ours said that the Republic was neither good nor bad, nor that the declaration of the republic was of any benefit. The Republic is a political regime elected by the nation, based on parliament and headed by the president. The only thing that almost all countries have in common is that the office of president does not inherit from father to son or family members. It means a lot to those who aren't colonial heads. The republic is neither good nor bad. It is the democratic republic that is important to begin with and say, "It is not the democracy and the republic that has not had its share. It's a desperate approach to the need to take on the republic to praise democracy. Criticizing the republic on the basis of the only party practices in Turkey is an extreme misdirection of facts. The Republic, at least, has given it the opportunity to live more than one-party lives and to freely express its opinion to the fellow who speaks from here. The Republic is virtue and democracy's insurance. As people claim honor, they need to look out for democracy and the republic. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For those who are aware, the republic has made a man of himself and a man of himself. Isn't that enough?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0016par0103	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0017par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to promote agricultural development, two milk cows were distributed to members of the dairy livestock cooperatives established in villages. Since it is not possible to support the house with two milk cows, however, our young citizens, especially our young farmers, have left their animals in the village to look for jobs in the city centers. Recently, with the implementation of the Ministry of Agriculture, I've been watching in my hometown of Corrum, where the names of these young citizens who have left their villages have been imposed on the names of our young villagers, about £20,000 each, and they've been demanded of them. We ask the Minister of Agriculture and Animalism to come up with an urgent solution. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0018par0109	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0019par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to warn the government of your intervention. The cotton harvest is complete in the Çukurova region, but the cotton cotton is still worth $1 million, $1m,100,000. We import cotton from Greece, Russia, India. Why can't our farmer make money on his own cotton, but we're making money on taxes for someone else's farmer, someone else's people? Please let the government make an attempt on cotton prices. The farmer no longer has the strength to endure. With these fuel prices, fertilizer prices, you've already put your sweat on the ground, shed your tears in the ground, every day with new hopes, hoping that I'll be able to make some money, the team is tired of its life. The government, please, in this regard, hear the farmer's voice about fuel prices and fertilizer prices and help him to stop the cotton from coming out, let our own farmer's cotton be judged in our own country and let our own farmer win. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The corn harvest is finished.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0020par0116	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0021par0119	Thank you, Mr. President. About 680 prisoners and convicted in prisons have exceeded the 50th days of hunger strikes, which are critical to human health. We know those who died of hunger strike and death fasts in the past, those who were injured after Korsakoff's syndrome. No matter what their political opinion, as a physician, I urge everyone to be more responsible, more sensitive, more responsible for the protection of human right to live. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0022par0122	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0023par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, yesterday, while discussing Pain's problems here, Mr. Minister said all kinds of health problems have been solved, especially helicopters and planes have been doing very well in health. Three months ago in Erzincan, a 27 - year - old boy died because of no helicopters or ambulances. One week before the festival, the newborn twins did not arrive, nor did the ambulance, and because the helicopter did not come, two of the children died. The military gave him the ambulance, and we finally took him to Malatya in a military helicopter. What the friends in Erzurum have reported is that the air is closed, and the military helicopter can't go, so how can a medical ambulance not go, or let's just say that it's going to 80, but does Erzincan have a special temper, and Erzincan is being so conservative about this ambulance?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0022par0127	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0024par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. On 23 October in the district of Balıkesir Marmara, there has been an unprecedented rains every 100 years due to extreme rains in the town of Avsha, in the palaces, and our central district of Marmara has been turned upside down, streets, roads, and drinking water has become unusable. About $1.5 million in municipal infrastructure, we need resources for road repair, and our citizens have suffered major damage. According to our mayor's and Sub-Mahammah's data, 60 houses were damaged in the centre, 110 houses in Avsha district, 87 houses in Çınarlı district, 21 houses in the village of Gündoğdu, 3 houses in the village of Topmağ, 3 houses in Asmalı, 140 businesses and 34 vehicles, 14 warehouses. Our citizens need immediate resources for their damage and their homes. The work of our government, of our government, at the point of meeting these needs, is not enough. According to their data, there has been about 600 million damages, while the damage there is estimated to be around 1.5 to 2 trillion. I demand that those wounds be patched up immediately.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0022par0132	Thank you, Mr. Havut. Some of our friends are in the system, but we apologize, and you know it for 10 people. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a review of the foreign audit reports from Turkey's Grand National Assembly and the Court's 2011 court, and I will have them read it and present it to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Foreign audit reports on the expenditures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Court of Justice in 2011 have been agreed to be taken into consideration by the Supreme Executive Court's answers at the meeting dated 10:10.2012. It's for your information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Court's 2011 External Control 1- The Court's External Control Report, which was appointed by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey to oversee the external audit of the fiscal year 2011 accounts, was reviewed in its 21.09.2012 external audit report on the budget Act of 2011, as to whether the spending documents provided by the spending units were in accordance with the laws and other legal regulations, the fiscal tables prepared, equality and credibility of the financial tables. During the study, the cost figures shown in the figures and tables of 2011 were seen whether they were recorded correctly or not, whether their sums were correct, equivalent and consistent, and whether the accounts agreed with each other. The budget's estimated number of available grants has been audited through a sample of the relevant legislation of the spending documents based on the figures, which have been researched to determine whether investments in the programme are being carried out, compared with the exact results. The start-up grant in 2011 was $512,935,000, with transfers and additions within the year, reaching $522,084,501.32. As of 31,12,2011, 470,697,701,70 euros were spent, 37,070,372,41 euros were cancelled, and 14.811,68,88 euros were transferred to the following year. 90.2% of the grant was earmarked in 2011, 89% in 2010, 88% in 2009, no spending on funds, and a balanced budget policy. - The president of TBM is in agreement with payment warrant documents and accounting receipts and bank statements. - That the income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, that there's no spending on the funds. - The senior executive has made an effort to oversee the functioning of the financial management and control system envisioned in Law 5018 and to ensure effective, economic and efficient use of public resources given by budgets. - The spending is generally followed by the principle of openness in the tender, and the competition is met. - The budget grant is being used efficiently and financially, - That those involved in all financial transactions work in accordance with the rules prescribed in the relevant legislation, It has been expressed. - After the payment order and additional documents are registered in the Electronic Document Management System, it should be carefully refiled in order and properly. - In protocol-related grant transfers, it should be taken care of to send funds in accordance with protocol provisions, - It's important that the board of examinations and admissions members should be taken care of by different people, with competent control staff assigned to the service purchases. - In the purchase of goods, the additional management and technical requirements require that the purchase of goods and materials and the price difference be calculated in this framework, - The cost of electricity, water, and gas used to run social facilities should be taken care of from social facility revenues. - During the implementation of the service acquisition agreement, the conditions required by the contractor must be taken care of fully. - In implementing the tender transactions for production, the productions on the contract site list have to be taken care of again in accordance with the contract document. evaluations and recommendations have been made. In this framework, the Supreme Manager's Answer, which is organised by external auditors, considering the control findings and proposals: - After the expense documents are registered in the Electronic Document Management System, it will be carefully refiled in order and properly. - The protocol-related grant transfers will be taken care of to send funds in accordance with protocol provisions, - He'll be assigned to the service purchases, and there'll be the care of the board of examinations and admissions members to be formed from different individuals, - Due to the lack of administration and the unpredictability of the contract in the implementation of the contract, the payment of the services required to ensure the failure of the service will be carried out accordingly, but will be observed in the following applications, - The price of electricity, water and gas consumption used to run social facilities will be taken care of from the revenues of social facilities. - An insurance policy on the purchase of services has been issued, but the payment order is not added to the supplement, and the following applications will be more careful about this issue. - Due to technical reasons in the production business, mandatory manufacturing changes have been made in accordance with the provisions of the contract's supplementary Productions General Circumstance, where no payment for manufacturing changes has been made. The appropriate measures will be taken as part of recommendations expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. The Foreign Control Report on 08.06.2012, organised by the Ministry of Internal Affairs Property Chiefs of the Turkish Parliament appointed to oversee the external audit of the fiscal year accounts of the 2-JEE presidency in 2011, has been reviewed on the basis of the expenditures and the accuracy of the expenditure documents provided during the use of these funds, based on the grants provided under the budget Act of 2011, and on the fact that the public resources are being used as economic, effective, and efficient. The Court's Presidency budget in 2011 said that $142,218,928,37 euros were earmarked, and that the amount of $120,950,823,823,20 was spent, proportionally compared with the budget funds and spending figures; 86.36% of its budget allowance, which was earmarked in 2009, was spent in 2010 and 85.1% in 2011. - The agency's payments based on payment order documents and accounting transaction receipts and bank statements are agreed, - That the income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, that there's no spending on the funds. - The Supreme Director of the Court has made a high effort to ensure effective, economic and efficient use of public resources given by the budget, to oversee the functioning of the financial management and control system envisioned by Law 5018, to fulfil its duties and responsibilities. - Expenses officer, executor, financial services director and accountant have made a maximum effort to implement financial legislation and take the necessary measures, - The administration's financial activities, decisions and procedures are carried out within the scope of the Public Financial Management and Control Act and other relevant legislation, It has been expressed. - In the process of drafting technical conditions in the tender files, a document often shows by whom the technical requirements have been drawn up, or by whom there are no signatures, so that it should be taken care of by the Administration to make official assignments and technical requirements for the contract, and to be formally appointed by experts in the field of employment by the contract, and to be granted legal document status by the authorities, so that the tasks and responsibilities are made public. - It's important that some of the charges in the tender files, with no signatures on them, be assigned in writing to the person or persons qualified by the administration to prepare about the cost of the contract, be careful to obtain legal document status in order to sign the costs prepared by these people. - There are indications that some of the cost calculations in the tender files have not been taken care of, that the government should consider the market conditions of the day while preparing the nearly cost of the contract. - From the documents found in the tender files, even though the tender consent document has determined the price of the document's sale, it would have to be taken care of by the expense authority, either by a separate consent or by the tender approval authority, which later shows that a document sale price was determined by administrative officials again. - In some tender files, when the members of the tender commission are being appointed, when the tender commissioner is said not to have been appointed, it should be taken care of by the administration to determine who is the president while the tender commission is being appointed. - Signs of missing foreign interim travel payments should be taken care to pay the full price that has been paid under Article 6245. evaluations and recommendations have been made. In this framework, the Supreme Manager's Answer, which is organised by external auditors, considering the control findings and proposals: - In the tenders, there will be the necessary care to prepare the administrative and technical requirements and to sign the technical requirements. - There will also be necessary care for the signing of the account tables, including the other details of the cost-altering table, which are signed, to be made official assignments for the preparation of about the cost of the cost. - About the cost of the tenders is being prepared according to the third joke (c) of Article 8 of the Law on Appliances of Property. However, the following tenders will be considered as well as the market conditions, following the recommendation in the report, during the preparation of about the cost. - In the tenders, the maximum attention will be shown so that the error of the date error in the report on the determination of the tender document sales price will not be repeated, - In a tender, the chairman of the tender commission has been cited as a member of the court and will now be given the necessary care to prevent such mistakes from being repeated. - The report made by the bank outside our administration during the payment of an international interim service route was corrected by the same bank (e.g., three days later) by additional payment to the subject, The appropriate measures will be taken as part of recommendations expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. It has been presented to your knowledge. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Turkey's Grand National Assembly President Cemil Cicek made an official visit to Slovakia on November 7, 2012 to respond to the invitation of Slovak National Assembly Speaker Pavol Paska. It was dated 28/3/1990 and 3620 to establish Foreign Relations in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In search of the reasons for the contamination of the Gediz River, we want the Constitution to be opened under Parliamentary Research under Article 104th and 105th Amendments, in order to investigate the effects of the Gediz River's pollution on the basin and to determine the solution routes. 15.12.2011 [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] 3) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kütahya]] [[İzmir]] [[Erzurum]] 7) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kayseri]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] 13) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Aydın]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] [[Adana]] [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Yozgat]] Reason: Environmental pollution occurs as a result of high concentrations of foreign substances that cause structural damage to the environment and disrupt its properties by blending in with air, water and soil and over time. Studies show that 50 per cent of the world's pollution has occurred in the last 35 years. Since the 1970s, rapidly increasing world populations have caused environmental pollution, so environmental problems, the increasing prevalence of the use of agricultural drugs, artificial fertilizers and chemicals used to promote unscheduled industrialisation and unsanitary urbanization, efficiency. Environmental pollution disrupts the natural balance in the ecosystem and has negative effects on the health of all living things. Therefore, international meetings and contracts on pollution have been held. Because of the importance of the environment, it was accepted by the United Nations as World Environment Day on June 5th. Our water supply is contaminated as the waste from urban and industrial-based waste is released into water environments without decontaminating, the important part of industrial-based water is used in agriculture, the use of chemical fertilizer, pesticides, and the removal of trace amounts of pesticides in the air by wind, or the dumping of waste from factories that produce pesticides into stagnating or flowing streams. The 401km-long Gediz River, which flows to the sea between Menemen and Foça districts of İzmir, is vital to the Aegean region. The Gediz basin, which has 521,000 hectares of agricultural farmland provided by the Gediz River, is one of Turkey's leading basins in terms of agricultural potential, efficient, broad, waterable plains and natural wealth, producing 10 per cent of total agricultural production in Turkey. For today, ecological pollution is the most important problem in the Gediz basin. The Gediz River is destroyed by the irrigation of sewage waste from the industrial toxic waste and water-sized areas of organised industrial and industrial facilities in its settlements, without decontaminating, using unconscious agricultural medicines and chemical fertilizers. In the Gediz River spring, I. The Water Pollution Control Act, according to the Water Quality Criters, is now home to the Gediz River for the Gediz Basin, resulting from industrial waste and agricultural activity, and has been found in the directions of nitrogen, organic matter and heavy metals. class has the quality of water (very dirty). According to the international water index criteria, the Gediz River is far below the agricultural watering criteria. The degree of pollution is also a danger to food health. It has also been seen that organic matter builds up and builds up metal computation on the bottom of the river due to eutrophification. The Gediz River, one of the most important settlements in history, is now turning into an open sewer line for miles. The most important indicator of pollution is the narrowing of the river fauna. The river struggles with its flora and fauna and leads the plain through it to its death. Because of pollution, thousands of acres of land watered by the Gediz River are in danger of barrenity. Due to the lack of "Gediz Basin Protective Service Protection Union" and the environmental pollution problem in Gediz Basin established in 2000 to free the gediz basin from pollution, I am afraid that it has not been able to work so far due to the lack of "Gediz Basin Action Plan" which was prepared in May 2008 to co-ordinate the Ministry of Environment and Forests to conduct an effective fight. For these reasons, a parliamentary investigation must be launched to ensure the necessary measures to avoid the light. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Constitution is 98th in order to determine the current problems of Istanbul's Employers and Artists, and to address these problems and to investigate the measures needed to be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[İstanbul]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Tekirdağ]] 7) S. Nevzat Don't Fear [[Isparta]] [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Yozgat]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Inconceived]] 16) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Lug]] [[Mersin]] The tradesman and artists are the most important social and economic layer in the continuation of the economic and social life of Istanbul, which is usually the backbone of our country's Turkish economy in particular. Thus, the contribution of our tradesmen and artists to the balance of economic and social development in Istanbul can never be ignored. In addition to all of this, they have always been the gateway to hope, with their contribution to reducing unemployment and creating new jobs. As they stimulate the economy with new businesses that they open or open in this sense, they also help create jobs, reduce unemployment. On the other hand, with the qualified workforce they grow in their workplaces, they help meet the country's need for qualified human resources. But when they were not given the necessary help and support, they were abandoned to their own destiny. The Istanbul Chamber of Employers and Artists Association (ISTESOB) closed down nearly 40,000 tradesmen from applications to the Register Offices during 2010. The reason for bankruptcy is: 1-I can't compete with malls, 2- I can't compete with non-registered employees, 3-high rents. The answers to the bankruptcy questions at the Register Office are stunning, and 54 percent of them have shut down because they can't compete with malls and giant markets. Twenty-seven percent of them left their jobs due to high-rise rents and so on. And then there are those who quit because they can't compete with off-the-book employees, which are 19 percent. The first-class merchant, second-rate merchant, tradesman and artist in Article 176 of the Tax Code must be added to a rating. Because as it stands, tradesmen and artists are considered second-rate traders in tax and other financial obligations. - Starting with the history of opening the business of the shopkeepers and artists, a zero tax rate should be imposed on commercial earnings for five years. After five years, taxes should be imposed gradually. [[5% to 10%.]] - No taxes should be taken from the minimum wage of workers employed by tradesmen and artists. - The electricity, water, gas costs used in the workplace should be 50% off. - The insurance premium from the shopkeepers and artists must be reduced, the benefits from pensioners must be removed. - The law of orientation must be passed at once. - Traders and artists must be met with loan demands, interest rates reduced. In this context, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is in great position to investigate the existing issues of the Istanbul Employers and Artists, including the correcting of these problems and the measures needed to be taken, including the legal arrangements to be made. The Constitution is 98th in order for our High Council to carry out this mission. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. A Parliamentary Research Commission must be established in accordance with its Article. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the creation of the unassigned problem of teachers, we provide and propose the need to open Parliamental Research under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution, in order to understand what the teaching policies on the basis of neoliberal economic transformation are and to develop proposals for a solution to the issue of "Teachers Who Haven't Been Trained." Deputy Director of the Group Group Vice President A study by the Higher Education Board was launched in 1997 called "Rebuilding in Education Studies." With this study, teaching teachers have been given entirely to education schools, except for some exceptions. Also in the same year, the "Turkish National Committee for Teachers" was dated 19.09.1997 and 97.8 of the Higher Education Board. It was created by decision number 144. Among the duties of this commission are "the determination of the country's priorities and areas with teacher deficits, the distribution of the number of students required for each major, and working in co-operation and co-ordination with the Ministry of National Education concerning the supply and employment of teachers. As stated in Article 43 of the National Education Basic Law, it has been described as "a special vocational profession on teaching, education, education and management duties of the State." As it is understood in all these statements, the state is tasked with raising "teacher" according to the needs of education schools in order to carry out the duties of public service, education, education, and management in this regard. The number of teachers to be raised and their employment will be determined by co-ordinated work by the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education through the Turkish National Committee for Education, which was created in 1997. But it is understood by the unregistered teacher reality that this coordination has never been done, that the numbers are now past 350,000. "If we, as Turkey, had done a study on the planning of our teachers' resources, what year, how many teachers do we need, maybe we wouldn't have this problem'," the minister said in his statements, and "Let everyone look to other jobs in line with their own ability and profession, our need is not as much as the person waiting to be appointed in the market right now," he is avoiding the committee, avoiding his position and his responsibility as the ministry. Mr. Omar Dinçer, in his first statement to the press when he was appointed as minister of the ministry, said, "I apologize to all the teachers for not being able to fulfill the promise of our minister's '55,000 teachers' earlier this year'," and dismissed his institutional responsibility by eliminating the predecessor before him. The reason why hundreds of thousands of teachers were not appointed today is not because, as Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer explained, "It is not about the traditional weakness of public administration." It is the result of a conscious and planned teaching policy on marketing and commercialisation of direct education. If today the Ministry of National Education can employ 60000 paid teachers as a cheap labor force of up to 300 euros a month when they have no job guarantees, no wages when they are not working, then it has consciously created the result of teaching strategies set by the flexible employment policies of neoliberal economic transformation. The National Ministry of Education has made it necessary to not appoint teachers, and the teacher's candidate's own "failance!" And "inadequacy!" It also legitimizes under its name. Before the prime minister came to power, he said at the Istanbul rally in 2002: "Many of our young people, especially our teachers, are out of work. The country has collapsed, the village schools are closed, and even the schools at the center are dying to be teachers, and you're auditioning for teachers. Why don't you let our young teachers work? You keep him waiting all these years, and then you take him, you know, is he gonna have any more enthusiasm, or can he teach? But hopefully, when we're in power, the teachers will make their preparations the day after school is over, and the next day, they'll go to school with a love of duty, so don't worry." He used his statements. At this point today, more than 350,000 teachers are waiting to be appointed. Hundreds of thousands of non-assigned teachers today all they want is to be staffed in areas where they're trained. But the Minister of National Education politely closes the door by recommending teachers to find another job. With its statements, the minister shows that he condemns non-assigned teachers to poverty and unemployment, popularises running unsecured and subcontractors to gain more profits, reduces education to a profit-harm relationship and reduces it to a total competition market. It is important to establish a parliamentary research commission in order to understand what the National Education Ministry has established on the basis of the neoliberal economic transformation of teaching policies and to develop proposals for solutions to the problem of teachers who have not been appointed. Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council's 01,11,2012 (today) meeting, I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On October 08, 2012, it was suggested that the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish Parliament on October 8, 2012, would be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, in order to investigate "the problems in Turkey's prisons have not been resolved and the unsustainable hunger strikes started because political demands have not been met." Speaking on behalf of groups, in favour of the motion, the first speaker, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0025par0358	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the problems of the prisons, are known as the 5th of September 12th military coup. From the prison of Lu Military, Mamak, from the Ulcans of Mamak, and now all the F-type prisons of Shakran, Kandira, Tekirdağ, everywhere, the same pressure environment, is going on today. Today, in Şakran Prison, a criminal had previously set his body on fire in protest of prison raids, and it was reported that he died today. It's a forensic convict. Again, the hunger strike is today on its 51st day. Humanity, conscience, justice, common sense, we live in moments when all of this is on the test. These hunger strikes are also associated with prison problems, with political conjunctural issues. The removal of the lockdown, again, is unacceptable in the face of both legal and human and political demands, such as education in the native language, and the talk of demands that may be, rather than the silence of power, it is unacceptable. In parliament, our Şırnak MP, Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız, started his hunger strike in solidarity on October 15th. Today's press release has announced that our Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım has also started a hunger strike to draw attention to the health of the prisoners in the hunger strike. What's he saying? Yıldırım said that the health of prisoners who have been on hunger strike for fifty days has become more and more dangerous every day, saying that the death of a prisoner will be the death of all humanity, consciences, and justice. Again, Mayor Çağlar Demirel, who was elected in the Siirt Prison, also began his hunger strike. So these hunger strikes... even though Mr. Prime Minister says one, Mr. Minister of Justice denies the words of the Prime Minister at the same time and states that 683 people are on hunger strike in 66 prisons. Other than that, CHP delegations went to four prisons and denied all of the Prime Minister's claims, where they eat. Today the Parliament Commission for Human Rights Review is in Bolu Prison. The same delegation went to Bolu Prison, and they announced their reports with a press release. Not just them, everyone's standing up, everyone's trying to find a solution to these critical moments. See, world-renowned intellectuals, from Noam Chomsky to Michael Taussig, until Judith Butler, Mr. Büşra Ersanlı, all call for constructive dialogue, a constructive dialogue and a warning to the government, saying that in this human tragedy, the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice are personally responsible, all political government and power must be involved in constructive dialogue. They point out the risks of forced intervention, pointing out that 122 people died in hunger strikes as a result of forced intervention in the 2000s. Again, there are very clear views on this dialogue. To the state of Turkey, Taussing says: "Please act immediately for the health and well-being of these brave prisoners. Again, in Butler's message of support, the government of Turkey must enter a serious dialogue with these prisoners who risk their lives for their injustice," he says. Here, from intellectuals to artists, all public opinion has very serious reactions and calls. I would like to address the conscience of Parliament's conscience with the call of literary Vedat Türkali, and artists: ▪ You can ignore hunger strikes, and when you ignore them, you're on the verge of a nose-to-face. You resist the most innocent demands of known times with your arrogance. You consider your talent to be a trick. Don't let human death turn into a joy that caresses your arrogance. Whatever you believe in, stand there in the name of the right to live. Stop being the instrument of years of denial policies. No government has ever faced such little and such concrete demand, meet this demand. Don't love yourself so much, and love some people. Understand now, there is no power that can stand against man's resistance. There's nothing scary about being human. Interim executives of power, please, be human. Listen to the prisoners, don't be prisoners of your arrogance. Every man who puts his body to hunger is the resistance or death of man. Don't be late. We, the undersigned, will continue to speak for justice, for justice, for peace, for freedom until the very last moment. Don't be so far away from us. Don't worry, don't worry. Don't kill him. Yes, the artists, including Vedat Türkali, were making this call. Law firms have also made statements. In the past, they pointed out the mistakes made during the September 12th military coup, and at that time they were secretly eating. Diyarbakır No.5. The first deaths began in the hunger strike in Lu Prison. Then Sevket began during the Ministry of Justice of Kazan. It began in the period of Tantan, in the 2000s, and this sense of threat was never resolved. Look, what do the female intellectuals say when they're making noise from the other side? They point out the statements of Mr. Yasar Kemal. Today, the democracies that people demand at the cost of death are also within human rights. Watching a person die on a hunger strike is the greatest pain of all. It doesn't suit humanity. If the deaths cannot be prevented, the plague will be upon all of us. They make a statement. All our friends, MPs, party members, public opinion is standing today. Again, we would like to highlight a fact that the 700 hunger strike actions within the scope of these demands will undermine the public with thousands of them, with far more effective actions both inside and outside. On October 30th, the public was able to stop life, stop it. The way the public has stopped life has never been so successful in any democracy. Dear lawmakers, for the situation in prisons, the call of the delegations, MPs, human rights advocates, the Turkish Medical Corps and all sensitive people is called out to all of us. We saw that, knowingly, we gave this motion to the House on October 8th. If parliament cannot investigate such important matters, the view of the burning prisoners in Şanlıurfa will be no less than Turkey. I want to make it clear to you that it is too late for a hunger strike on the 51st day of the Parliament's Human Rights Commission to go to Bolu. It's unacceptable to be pushed to such a critical stage in the matter of human rights. With these feelings, I think the House will show sensitivity to our request, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0026par0373	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Second speaker, Kastamonu MP Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen. Mr. Gülshen, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0027par0378	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge against the BDP group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the BDP Group brought a similar proposal to our agenda yesterday, and our Parliament did not accept it in the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0028par0380	We'll bring it every day, just so you know!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0027par0381	We reject it every day. Our speakers who spoke on behalf of our group and on behalf of their own, expressed our reasons for not accepting it yesterday. For the same reasons, I declare that we are against the group's proposal, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0029par0384	Thank you, Mr. Gülshen. Third speaker, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. Mr. Ozturk, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0030par0388	Mr. President, I've been promised a group proposal from the Party for Peace and Democracy. I salute you all with respect. The Peace and Democracy Party demands the establishment of the Parliament's research commission to prevent the death losses of hunger strikes in prison and to prevent a deepening lack of resolution in the political demands of prisoners. We, the People's Party of the Republic, have previously made a motion to establish a parliamentary research commission to investigate the problems in prisons, the conditions and the health issues of sick prisoners and the reasons for these problems, to determine if there were people who lost their lives in prisons. My dear friends, the problems in prison are not really separate from the problems in the country. Prisons are the mirrors of democracy and freedom in a country. In order to understand the level of democracy and freedom in the country, you have to understand the events in prison -- I think. Turkey's situation today in terms of democracy and freedoms, in terms of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, actually made it feel in a bill discussed yesterday at the Justice Commission. The European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights, which has been protected under additional protocols under which Turkey is a party, has taken into account the intensity of violation decisions against our country, and a bill has been passed to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I want to draw the gold with a red pen, because of the intensity of the European Court of Human Rights' violations against Turkey, the government is bringing a bill to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, friends. Now, this shows what progress the government has made in Turkey in terms of human rights and freedoms. Again, basic rights and freedoms in Turkey have been made very clear in the European Commission 2012 Turkey Progress Report. Even though the President of the Constitutional Commission tore it up and threw it away, it wasn't thrown away by him. The important thing is to eliminate events that have led to human rights and violations in Turkey. My dear friends, I'm speaking yesterday through the information provided by Mr. Attorney General at the Commission. As of September 30, 2012, the number of applications made to the European Court of Human Rights for violating basic rights is 16,850; this is 12 per cent of the application to the ECHR. In terms of the number of applications, Turkey is second after Russia. That's not what I'm saying, it's what Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin said. The total application in Russia is 22 per cent. Italy is in third place. In terms of violation decisions made after the application, Turkey is ranked 1st, Italy is ranked second, Russia is my valued friends in the 3rd place. Again, in terms of the number of decisions that are expected to be carried out, Turkey is number two, Italy is number one; Turkey is number one in terms of compensation paid. In terms of Freedom House's 2012 Press Freedom Report, Turkey is part of the free countries between Tanzania, Zambia and the Philippines. Clearly, political rights and freedoms are not respected in these countries. The only party in these countries dominates other political actors and dominates politics. According to the same report, there has been no change in Turkey from individual freedoms and political rights to 2005, my dear friends. Again, according to the Associated Press Agency's 2011 Research Report, Turkey is at the top of countries which have decided to be convicted on terror charges using anti-terror laws. There are 35,117 convictions in 66 countries; 12,897 are my dear friends of Turkey. Turkey is at the top of the worst countries based on the 2011-2012 press freedom index of the Organization of Journalists Without Borders. Turkey, according to the previous report, fell 10 places at once, ranking 179 countries, and ranked 148. In the same category as what countries? Behind Morocco, Uganda, Gambia, my dear friends. This is where the advanced democracy of the Justice and Development Party was seen in 2012. If fundamental rights and freedoms have been violated in such a country, if violations of basic rights and freedoms have been made a rule, if the European Court of Human Rights, despite violations of Turkey, are not fulfilled, then, of course, the rights of the people living in prison will also be ignored. My dear friends, the right to live is the most basic of human rights and the highest of human rights. Human body immunity, right to healthy living, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international contracts have been secured. It's a fact that when people are living free, they're arrested as suspects of any crime, they're imprisoned, they're imprisoned, they're condemned, they're inequal to the free man, they're inequal to their rights and freedoms, and they're in no way losing anything of being human. The state must deal with all kinds of problems, especially health issues of prisoners and prisoners under its protection. The right to live is the one at the top of human rights. We, the Republican People's Party, actually consider life rights as a human right. So we think that everyone should respect the right to live, regardless of their political opinion, ethnicity, religion, faith. But on the other hand, we feel it's not right to use this fundamental human right of life as a bargaining factor in the fulfillment of a number of demands and to treat them as a method of fulfilling a number of demands. Politics exists to solve problems. Therefore, the Justice and Development Party's Power, which the public today gives the authority to use the public power to solve problems, is my problem in the country, the problem is the problem of the opposition. Without discrimination, the public has to resolve problems peacefully by using the power of the state, which is given by its own -- in order to solve problems. Whatever the problem is, the problem is not solved to solve the problem. People -- I just said -- have to solve problems by respecting the basic right of life. There is a painful truth in prisons, whether it is intended to meet political demands today or for other purposes. Prisoners are on hunger strike. Therefore, political power has a duty to resolve this problem. He can't ignore this problem. He can't ignore it. Any entity that has lost its reflex is doomed, dear friends. It's a lack of reflexes that a system that sees the end of human life live does not seek a solution to the problem. If you say "reflexia," you have to find a solution to the problem, or even a prisoner. Otherwise, it will be an inevitable fate for you and the AKP. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0031par0397	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The final speaker, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzek, is Bart's MP. Here you go, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0401	Mr. President, I've been promised against the BDP group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. The BDP proposed the group on the same issue yesterday, and with the General Assembly's votes, that group proposal was rejected, which was rejected, which was again brought to the agenda of the Assembly General Assembly today. The group's proposal suggests that the problems in prisons are not solved and are intended to make these demands visible through hunger strikes and mass riots because political demands are not met. As of today, more than 300 prisoners and prisoners in 34 prisons have been declared to be involved in an ongoing, unchanging hunger strike. The issue is requested to be brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to ensure the end of these actions and prevent casualties. I would like to point out first that the events and figures mentioned in the proposal are not true. Dear lawmakers, what was in the past regarding the prison conditions mentioned in the group's proposal? WHERE did the EC PARTY government come during its period? In 2002, there were 528 penal institutions in our country. The penal institutions were built according to the crowded ward system. This was the basis for riots and escape attempts, extortion, questioning and punishment within the institution, forcing other prisoners and prisoners to go on a death fast or hunger strike, assaulting staff, posting banners and posters, training in terrorism, not sending them to trial. As of today, we have a total of 377 criminal execution institutions in our country. In the ten-year EK PARTI rule, the penal system, as in every field, has also experienced significant innovations, improvements. First of all, there have been studies of legislation, physical structure, human resources that have been needed to solve the problems of criminal execution institutions. The amendments to the execution legislation, the possibility to suspend the prison sentence by choice sanctions, the control of the execution institutions through independent councils, the judicial control over all operations carried out in criminal execution institutions, the training of staff in criminal execution institutions. A controlled freedom measure has been implemented, allowing prisoners to be executed by the execution of the sentences, by implementing a controlled freedom measure for the part of the prisoner's sentence, to ensure that they adapt to the outside world, maintain and strengthen their ties with their families. It was intended to reintegrate prisoners who had one year and less time to be released on condition, and to be reinstated under a controlled liberalisation measure, and about 20,000 people took advantage of the amendment. It has been made easier for the convicts to switch from closed execution institutions to open execution institutions to ensure that they are admitted to society. The third judicial package extended the scope of judicial control, and the three-year upper limit for the implementation of the judicial control measure has been lifted, with the opportunity to implement judicial control from all crimes. Some measures have allowed convicts and suspects to follow without arrest through electronic surveillance. From 2002 to today, 208 penal institutions have been closed that have not met the standards of the United Nations and Council of Europe. It is also planned to close the 197 criminal execution institution by 2017. Between 2002-2012, 68 prisons were opened with a capacity of 50,737 people. Since 2002, 73 criminal execution institutions have been completely converted into room systems. In addition, large repairs have been made in the execution institutions, and their physical weaknesses have been restored, and their bathrooms, toilets, kitchens, and mess halls have been renewed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0033par0409	Why is 10,000 Kurds in prison, why? Tell me about it, forget about it. Why are 10,000 Kurds prisoners?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0410	I'll be there, Congressman, if you'll listen. Let's put this in the middle of what the terms were in prison, what they weren't, and we'll come up with your proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0034par0411	A thousand people are on the edge of death, and you're talking! Shame on you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0413	20 criminal execution institutions have been operated by construction of additional units with workshops, closed-open sports fields, cultural fields of activity. In 2009, under protocol with the Ministry of Health, health services in penal execution institutions began to be carried out by the Ministry of Health, new health units opened, rehabilitation centre opened for convicts who could not afford their personal care, and the implementation of 150-bed-accessible state hospital projects in the form of campus institutions began.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0035par0414	The way you talk about it, go to bed if it's so luxurious!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0415	Children's prisons, with bathrooms and toilets in them, began to form single-room prisons, where the healing officer, based on 24 hours of work, can stay with their families from time to time. Law regulations have been made in prisons so that talks can be held in the main language. The innovations in prisons are so clear in favour of convicts and prisoners, while the reforms of terrorist organisations and the start of hunger strikes in prisons have nothing to do with conditions in prisons. In fact, those who support the actions launched under the direction of the terrorist organization are acting as a spokesman for terrorist organizations and based on armed terrorist groups rather than on the will of the people.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0036par0417	What do you want them to do, die or die? Tell me clearly, don't be dishonest.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0418	We still remember that those who added the name of democracy to the name of the party are involved in terrorism, shoulder to shoulder, lap to lap. Now the same people are trying to move the streets according to terrorist leaders' instructions. The PKK has all of its declarations in the CENT's broadcast organs spoken by BDP spokesman. BDP speakers say the same thing as the Kandil. If you're based on the will of the people, we need to listen to the voice of the people, not the terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0037par0419	The people voted for us, so listen to us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0420	It wouldn't be appropriate for a political party to order the people to die.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0038par0422	BDP didn't order the hit, so don't deflect. You don't do anything, you respect the will of the people there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0423	In the statement of our Prime Minister, die of hunger. You must also explain to the people the lamb kebab in Kızıltepe.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0039par0425	It's a shame.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0040par0426	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0427	Unfortunately, we regret to inform you that the BDP, which is now surrounded by terror, has now become a political movement that gives death orders. In the actions he's been trying to carry out recently, in the steps he's taken, in the strategies he's tried to implement, I'd like to present to the attention of our Kurdish-rooted citizens who now want to destroy the people that the terrorist organization has been using as a criminal mechanism for which it has failed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0041par0428	Tell me what you're doing. Your conscience is blind.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0429	A terrorist organization who took their children out of their families by taking them to the mountains, trying to stop investments in the area, abducting teachers, paramedics, building hospitals, building airports, setting fire to business machines that work on roads, dams, burning schools to the people of the region...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0042par0430	You're the government, so stop it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0431	...now that the whole world sees, we must stand together against this terrorist organization that has persecuted our Kurdish citizens with its power.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0043par0432	You come to Diyarbakir on November 3rd, tell them in Diyarbakir. We're in Diyarbakir province on November 3rd, come there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0433	The steps of the EC PARTY to democratisation in ten years are evident.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0044par0434	Where, where?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0043par0435	Come to the area, to the area!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0032par0436	Enormous investments for the region's economic development are evident. It's clear what the terrorist organization and its political extensions want to do. They don't care about peace of mind in the region. They don't care about brotherhood. Their concern is not more development, more development of the region within the national unity and brotherhood.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0043par0437	Come to Diyarbakır on 3 November. We're in Diyarbakir. Say it over there. Come to the area, see the truth of the region.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0045par0438	How many times have you been in that area, in your life?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0046par0439	Go talk there if you dare!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0047par0440	They don't care about peace, they don't care about democracy. It's our wish that they turn the wrong way. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The group's proposal is nothing more than an effort to move the heads of the terrorist organization's instructions to the agenda of Parliament. That's why the BDP says I'm against the group proposal, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0048par0444	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0049par0445	Here you go, Mr. Turk. Here you go, sir. Two minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0048par0449	Mr. President, the high-profile MPs have had an incident that hasn't fallen off the Prime Minister's agenda in a few days. On 17 July, our group decided to meet in Mardin. After that meeting, as a Mardin MP, one evening I invited my friends to the village, and we ate. No hunger strike at the time, nothing. Naturally, I have guests, friends, I am Mardin MP, and I feed in my village. Now, it really doesn't suit the Prime Minister to bring such a simple event to the agenda of Turkey. Now, Mr. Prime Minister is inconsistencies. On the one hand, we're shown as the perpetrators of death fasts, and on the other hand, they say they don't eat and drink, they don't have this condition, they don't have a hunger strike. Now that I'm in doubt, what is the Prime Minister's state of mind? You know, ll. In England, when he went mad, George gave instructions to his ministers, to the bureaucracy again. When Hyde Park was wrapped up in a tree as President of Prussia, he was then removed from duty. Now, Mr. Prime Minister is not a cruel person, but a religious person. That's why I don't believe he's a tyrant, but he's in a bad mood. A man had an accident, and his boss asks him, "What's your situation?" He says, "It's very good." It says: "Only a few ingredients...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0050par0455	President, if you'll just give me a couple more...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0051par0456	Get it together...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0048par0457	It says: "Good situation." Send a chassis, send a carburetor, send a motor and send a hood. The Prime Minister's chassis is bent, the hood's smashed, the engine's dead, and all he's got left is that steering wheel. In fact, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is also responsible for seeing the Prime Minister's state of mind very well. I think it's Mr. Prime Minister himself who needs to be tried today to answer questions. This is the attitude of the Prime Minister, who encouraged the deaths and caused it to come to this today. I condemn the Prime Minister's attitude. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0052par0461	Mr. President, the speaker has taken his word for bullying, but he has insulted the Prime Minister in a way that is immoral, if I may say so.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0048par0462	I don't insult anyone out of decency, I don't do that to anyone.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0053par0463	He responded to the Prime Minister, Mr. Elitaş, because he was a member of parliament who had eaten in his own home.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0054par0464	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0466	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, who, as we speak, when we criticize others, come in here as a white spoon, trying to reveal themselves as angels, from all the deaths, from all the martyrs...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0056par0467	We're human, we're not angels, we're not angels.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0468	...to place responsibility on the Prime Minister, a process that shows his unconscionableness, attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0057par0469	What are you doing but bidding! You're dealing with nothing but contracts. You've been in power for ten years.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0470	By forcing you young men in prison, threatening them, forcing them to fast death or strike in different ways, forcing them to die in those conditions, encouraging them to fast death...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0058par0471	A single prisoner will say that BDP has instructed us to resign as a member of parliament. Shame on you! Tell me one person!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0059par0472	How many prisons have you been to? Have you met with one prisoner?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0473	If you say, "You inmate brothers, you don't need a death fast, we're trying to figure it out by doing politics, talking. If you say it's over, it's over, but you lead the people in the mountains to death, you provoke them to death, you encourage them to die. And you get up here and you talk about humanity. It is not about mankind by provoking people to death, by encouraging people to die, by forcing them, by threatening them, by giving them the opportunity to die.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0060par0474	How many prisoners have you interviewed?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0475	I'm just saying...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0061par0476	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0477	To our Kurdish noble citizens, these are not your representatives.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0062par0478	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0479	These are representatives of their own reign.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0062par0480	Get out of here! Where did you get the vote, and I got the vote? Get out of here! Let's go!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0481	In order to fulfill your own interests, you're dragging those Kurdish boys to their deaths so you can maintain your own reign.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0062par0482	Did we get it from you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0483	Let it go, let it go! We're past the blessed days. Don't let those babies die in that process. You burn schools, prevent students from going to school.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0063par0485	Yeah, why did you put them in jail, why?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0486	You're trying to stop investments.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0064par0487	What's that got to do with anything? You're mixing the straw with the handle.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0488	You leave those young people to die just to enjoy yourself.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0065par0489	Shame on you! Shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0055par0490	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0066par0495	Thank you. I submit to your votes the Peace and Democracy Party's proposal:
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0067par0497	We also want the number of decisions enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0066par0498	Those who don't agree... There's a disagreement between the clerks; we'll vote with the electronic device. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motion has been rejected. With the bill and proposals of the agenda, we're moving on to other jobs from the commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with Şanlıurfa MP Abdulkerim Gök, who is ranked in the 3rd place, and with the Law Proposal on the Amendment to Public Contraction Act, and with the Association, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 336 rows. I'm the one who's asking for word on the whole...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0068par0520	Mr. President, before we discuss this proposal, I'd like to bring one matter to the attention of the General Assembly. Proposal 336 ranked at 2:40 p.m. on Tuesday to the Republican People's Party Group. As soon as we made an offer to the Republican People's Party Group, we applied to the Department of Laws Decisions to make a request for personal talks, but the response we received there was at 1400 p.m. The Justice and Development Party Group has closed the talks by applying. The number of lines for the Justice and Development Party Group is being sent to the Republican People's Party Group early, perhaps to other political parties, I don't know -- late. The number of lines should be distributed to all political party groups at the same time, and political party groups should be able to make demands at the same time. On the contrary, an application is not correct. Therefore, there is no way that this offer could be discussed today. There is an open violation of Article 42 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0066par0522	Mr. President, I've been informed that word requests have been received as soon as they've been instructed to distribute the number of lines. Proposal number 336 is Tuesday at 14 o'clock. It's been distributed at 00, the same time the commitment demands have been accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0068par0523	Mr. President, I've been following this from the chart in our group. Every number of rows that come into our group is graded on what day, date, time it comes in, meticulously we follow it. It's 2:40 a.m. to our group. Now, you're saying a general rule, you're talking about an application according to the general rule. It's 2:40 a.m.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0066par0524	And here it's called 1400.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0068par0525	Sir, he came to us at 14.40. That's what I'm saying, there's no way I can bring anything up that doesn't exist.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0069par0526	Did he go to all the groups at the same time, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0066par0527	Same time, 14 o'clock. It's at 00.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0069par0528	Is there a written statement from the Speaker of Parliament on this matter?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0070par0529	So is there a written report? Who was it delivered to, and at what hour was it delivered? Is it identified in the form of the Department of Decisions of the Laws?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0069par0530	Or is there a delay due to traffic? (x) 336 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0071par0532	He's handing out General Papers, so we can take a look from there. They say, sir. Embezzled.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0072par0533	Then let's take a break, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0073par0534	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0071par0535	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0073par0536	All applications have been carried out in this manner. As soon as it's suppressed and distributed, the group's organization, the group's managers, they follow it, they apply for it, and they make demands of their rights. This went on the same way, as it did in the previous process. There is no irregularity in the procedure. As a matter of fact, Article 42 does not already have an arrangement on the matter, but it has arranged the issue of whether it will be suppressed or distributed. It is not in the Civil Charter on when to take the word and when to leave.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0071par0537	Mr. Vural, do you have anything to say?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0074par0538	Sir, of course, I mean, I don't know, it's 2:00. It's been distributed at 00, 14. Did you get a request for a speech at 00? It's so...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0075par0539	So it's 2:00. That's being distributed at 00, 14 at the same time. If he's demanding a word, something must be wrong here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0074par0540	There's something in there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0075par0541	So the Laws are 14 of the Decisions. He left at 00, was he immediately given to the Justice and Development Party Group?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0074par0542	Mr. President, I don't know, maybe the traffic's stuck, maybe the delay's coming from him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0076par0543	Now, the information I've been given says that some officials are waiting there. At that moment, he can get it, sent to the others by embezzlement channel.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0075par0544	Then there's no surrender to groups at the same time. There's no equality here, so if it's delivered to one of them at the door and delivered to the other office 500 meters away, the distribution doesn't start at the same time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0077par0545	Or we could always sleep at that door, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0078par0546	I think it's the traffic, sir, there's...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0079par0547	Sir, that's the Rutin app. They say it's a group of vice presidents.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0080par0548	There's a possibility of hand-delivering the commission after it's been suppressed and distributed. They applied when our friends were hand-delivering.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0549	Mr. President, the Department of Laws Decisions, Parliamentary President is obliged to hand over all political parties at the same time. No political party can take advantage of its group, that's not possible.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0079par0550	That's right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0551	Sir, there's no way to meet, there's a painting against the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0082par0552	Sir, let's have a look.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0553	Let's take a break and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0083par0554	Mr. President, there is no procedure involved. There's no way the MPs are going to apply there and stop a bill of law from discussing their order. They have the opportunity to speak for the groups.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0084par0555	Is there anything important going on with the line, Mr. President? So the groups here have already written down their rights.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0556	Sir, personal conversations. That's the point.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0084par0557	Oh, you're talking about personal conversations.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0558	Yeah, sure.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0084par0559	Now, if you'll excuse us, we'll continue the talks, we'll bring in what they're saying about how personal conversations are done, see if anything like this has been done or not.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0085par0560	Make the diagnosis, and then we'll be...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0561	Take a break, sir, and we'll see what we can find out.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0086par0562	Mr. President, we'll be speaking on behalf of the groups in general. In the case of personal conversations, if there's a mistake, we'll assess it. There's no reason to stop the law talks.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0087par0563	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0564	Sir, there's no way personal conversations can be distributed like this. I'm sorry to hear your president's statement to the General Assembly as a normal procedure. All political party groups must be distributed at the same time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0087par0565	No, sir. What I'm saying is, look, Mr. President, what I'm saying is, Mr. Hamzacebi, there are speeches for groups, if there are individuals, they've explained how they're being distributed, and if necessary, we can look at this as these conversations continue. If you'll excuse me, we'll continue. Let's bring it in for the group while the talks continue, then we can all take a break and look at it together, how it's done, how it's done.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0566	Sir, if you'd like to continue, I'd like to ask for a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0087par0567	Here you go, sir. Here, I'm opening up a discussion. In favor, against...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0569	I'm against...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0088par0570	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0087par0571	In favor of Mr. Elitaş, against Mr. Hamzacebi. Is that so, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0081par0572	Yeah. Mr. Haydar Akar is against you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0087par0574	Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0089par0577	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we see that all the transactions so far have been widely perceived today, so I've been a member of parliament for ten years, and I've been a group vice president for nearly six years, and I'm sorry to see for the first time that the process continues the same way as it does, and that we're faced with a process of asking for words. The bill and proposals can be taken from the commission after it's finished, it can be delivered from this hand, or sent to the position of groups in the previous instance, our friends from the Nationalist Movement Party, the BDP, the Republican People's Party group management, who are watching the suppression and disbandment process, if they want to talk about it, and they usually want to go and get it, and because they've also applied it, the group's prime ministers will come together, and we'll take over the Kura, or else we'll share it? Now, we talked about this yesterday, but, Mr. Group, I don't think that's been brought up to Mr. President. If that's the case, we'll take one of our friends and give it to you. The two parties applied for it, and we went first. I mean, I don't think there's any point in discussing it in a way. It's as if our friends had taken it away from us as they were able to get it out of the hands of our fellow lawmakers, and they gave them their applications there, and it was done according to procedure. Our friends of the Republican People's Party, a friend of mine who I presume spoke on behalf of the group yesterday, so your friends have applied for such talks, so if possible, we'll see you tomorrow. But right now, I see that our friend isn't here. There is no action contrary to the procedure, and there is no reason to prevent them from meeting, because no one can prevent the rights of political party groups to talk about their groups, and the Civil Code has made that clear. Every political party has the right to speak for 20 minutes each. Mr. President's application is correct, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0090par0581	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Against you, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0091par0584	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been handed out to groups and MPs on Tuesday, changing the bid for the amendment to the Public Contraction Act. As a rule, this distribution must be carried out simultaneously to all political party groups, because it can be done from the moment the personal commitment demands are distributed, as soon as that distribution reaches the groups. Therefore, we are 14 of the Parliamentary Presidency. We distribute it at 100, we come in, we take it from the door, we take it to the group of those who want it, we deliver it to them. It's not true, it's not realistic. Of course, anyone can come and get it, but if you delivered it to the other political party group 20 minutes, 40 minutes later, you'd have to distribute personal conversations or apply for it on the basis of that deadline. We'll discuss the proposal now. The proposal is the 26th amendment to the Public Contraction Act so far. The Public Contraction Act was adopted on January 2002, and 25 changes have been made since then. Only one of these 25 changes was made by the government before the Justice and Development Party governments, and the remaining 24 changes were made by the Justice and Development Party. This is the 25th amendment the AKP has made. For some reason, the AKP has an interest in the Public Contraction Act, and the changes have been made in order to expand constant, exceptions and exemptions, some tenders to be made without tenders, non-competitive. The offer regulates a slightly different matter, but it's a case that can be considered in the same context. And how we feel about him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I was going to testify. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0092par0591	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Ahmet Aydın, Adıyaman.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0093par0593	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the presidential court's position. Now, my dear friends, of course, here is the Parliament's working schedule, schedule, traffic according to the regulations of the Civil Code and Parliament. So far, in parliament, both by the Civil Code and by Parliament's regulations, the issue of today's agenda has come up in the same way as it did in previous times. Actually, there's nothing wrong, nothing missing. On Tuesday, it's 2:00 p.m. It's done at 00, and as usual, it's 1 4 o'clock. There are personal commitment demands being made from the distribution at 00. There's no shortage of our friends here, no breach, they made promises on time. I think there's been a slight lack in the CHP, and they've been making late demands at around 2:40 p.m. Therefore, the AK PARTY Group has received personal commitment demands.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0094par0597	As always.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0093par0598	That's how it's always done here, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0094par0599	It always does, Mayor. Does it always happen to you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0093par0600	He is also receiving the demand for a word that precedes the sudden demands of the Parliamentary General Assembly. That is the nature of the matter, and that is what the Civil Code commands us, and that is the law of the assembly. So there's no abnormality in the position of the Presidential Court, no problems. On Tuesday, it's 2:00 a.m., timely delivery. It's at 00. They made promises as soon as the distribution was made. So, I say we're in favor of the presidential position, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0095par0604	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Against you, Mr. Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0096par0606	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have now made a promise against you. Why did I get the word against it? It's not the first time you've done it, you keep bringing it up and taking the words. In fact, you take promises and you don't do anything. You know, if you could just look a citizen in the eye and tell him about the law proposals and the stuff you promised, if you had that kind of skill, I wouldn't feel bad about it. You go, you close the words, and then you say, "We have a promise." You stop opposition party MPs from speaking. That's how it's always been. I'm a 24th-century MP, and I haven't seen any other procedure. Now that the next item is very important, I'll cut it short, let's discuss the next article, and let's discuss the next law. You applaud, all of you, and you give your messages to the Turkish public. You're not giving me anything, and that's actually how it goes. Now, Mr. Elitaş says whatever law it is about, they go and watch and take those words. I don't understand why you care so much about this law. I'm not actually a member of this Commission; I'm not a member of the Commission for Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism, but I went there -- one item -- to discuss this bill. I'm a member of the CIT Commission, I'm curious. He wasn't supposed to go there, and that was actually supposed to be discussed at the Justice Commission, but he went there. There's no telling why he's gone. There's the same problem there. Look, he's got an account of 24 or 48 hours in the Civil Code, as far as I know. Forty-eight hours in a minute, and that's how it starts. You're in such a hurry that you have to explain to the Turkish nation who you're in a hurry for; you have to explain to the Turkish nation why this law, a one-point law, is important. In a moment, our friends are going to tell us how important this law is or how important this proposal is, and they're going to tell this Turkish nation and you're going to tell you, and I know that you're going to accept it here without ever reading the law, but I'm going to tell you once again what it's going to cost you to read the law and think about it. When was he delivered to the CHP Group? At 14.40.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0097par0610	14. It's been delivered at 00.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0096par0611	You've been delivered in 40 minutes, closed in 40 minutes. Now, we're going to listen to these conversations here. [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] These guys are gonna come, they're gonna tell it, we're gonna listen to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0098par0615	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0099par0616	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0098par0617	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0099par0618	It's 1 4 o'clock for all political party groups. It's been suppressed and distributed and delivered at 00. The information we received from our Group Directorate was given to all political party groups at the same time, but due to the delay, the AK PARTY Group has already gone and taken their order, as I just said. We met a friend yesterday, but I can't see him right now. If he were a friend, that wouldn't be a problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0098par0620	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0100par0621	I'd like to ask you something, Mr. President. At that time, is the distribution of the numbers of the AKP's group's vice president's commitment, or is it in the deity of the Parliamentary bureaucracy, or is it in the mind of the Laws? I want to hear it from you now. If it's in your name, the Deputy Director of the Group has made a speech that exceeds his field of duty. That's no way to go about it. I'd like you to do that as Chairman of the Court immediately... ▪ 14. It's been distributed at 00..... he said. 14. If it's distributed at 00, you're the one who's going to say it, it's not the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0099par0622	The president already told me, he said 2:00.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0100par0623	Then he'll say it again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0101par0624	Congressmans, before the debate begins, Mr. Altay, I am already 14. I said it was distributed at 00, according to the information I've been given.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0100par0625	You're wrong!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0101par0626	Just a moment, sir. So what we're doing now is the same thing that's been done so far, but if groups think that there's some kind of problem with the issue, then the groups need to work it out together. I believe that my practice is correct and that it is in accordance with the earlier practices, because it has been implemented. So now, I'm going to make a promise to our friends who want to speak on behalf of groups above the general rule of law. [[Continue]] On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan has asked for a statement. Mr. Tan...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0102par0635	Mr. President, if there was a change of scenery, a word to the other groups. I'll make a promise to Mr. Six when he gets here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0101par0636	Aye. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Erdoğdu, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0103par0640	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on the Law Proposal to Change Public Contraction Act 336. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, public tenders, unfortunately, are the most open areas for corruption, abuse, and the right to an orphan. The public tender, in essence, represents a process that leads to the start-up of the state's purchase and sale, starting with the need and paying for the money, and in almost all of these phases, various forms of corruption have been developed. In determining the need, for example, when a hospital takes a very expensive microscope when it doesn't need it, and when it gets this microscope, corruption that only begins with the definition of the microscope in that company begins with just the detection of the need. There is a wide range of corruption that goes to the stage of drafting these conditions, the competition phase, the elimination of companies, the payment process. Corruption, in essence, is an abuse of a entrusted authority -- this could be an agency head, it could be a general manager, it could be the mayor, it could be the minister or the prime minister -- for a special benefit. So why do all countries and we have to fight corruption? Because these corruptions are based on public assets, dear friends. Public assets are the common values of this people. A significant portion of these public assets are taxes, and taxes are taken from everyone. I'd like to put it in an emotional example so that we'll all come to the point: Two and a half months old in the district of Tekkeköy, Samsun's starving baby pays taxes for a glass of milk, dear friends and mother says that after losing her baby, I don't have any. Tea makes you milk? I haven't had food in my pot in two days. My neighbors will bring a plate of food and my children will eat it. Otherwise, I'm not talking about this to exploit the sufferings of the Cuba doll or 59 of our starving people, according to TİK figures in 2008. I'm just saying this to draw attention to the matter, dear friends. Public tenders have always been a big problem in this country, not just a problem in this period of power, but a problem in every period of power. This corruption and this system of discrimination have been creating constant economic and social crises. After the latest 2001 crisis, it was adopted by all countries, and agreed on by all countries, and accepted by the Public Relations Act 4734, which presented principles such as activities, efficiency, transparency, competition. Public Contraction Law 4734 was a law that encouraged competition and transparency, prevented corruption; it digested international principles such as economics, activity, efficiency; and unfortunately, your party's first problem with this law was Ankara Metropolitan Mayor Melih Gökçek. And what did Mr. Melih Gravity do? The law announced all its tenders for the next two years before it took effect on 1/1/2003. Because it was a law that prevented public resources from dying in any way, my friends. And that's when you began to disagree with this law. This law, as far as we're concerned, has been changed 25 times in its own text, and 30 times outside of its own text, which is 55 times in total, dear friends. And one clause in this law says that all changes to this law -- says the 66th Amendment -- must be made with changes to this law. You have to do so by disobeying this law. For example, a law related to EXPO is coming, except by the Public Requirement Agency; the national education law is coming, exception from the Public Relations Agency. Now, if we look deeply at these 55 changes, we'll be able to clarify the relationship between public tenders and power, dear friends. The third amendment of the Public Contraction Act is the third most modified article. Article 3 explains exceptions to public tenders. I've just told you, it's a law that allows economics, efficiency, efficiency, corruption. The easiest way to get rid of this law is to add a joke to Article 3 to Article 3 and take certain expenditures out of this Public Contraction Law. The original had five clauses, which now have 23 clauses, which we've come up with as far as (t) bends these exceptions. In fact, so many rulings are confused that they put two (k) clauses in the article "K" (k). Let me just say on one example of exception, so that we can all understand what these changes mean, dear friends. You know, when your government came to power, it decided to give coal to poor families. We're a party in favor of every penny that goes to the poor, and we're just arguing about it going to be more efficient, more efficient. However, it has been determined by the government that coals that go to these poor families are made from the hands of the government, by corrupting the tender, or by mines that have been surrendered without any contract, that coals have been taken from these mines, without contract, with exorbitant prices, and a number of firms have been paid billions of dollars unfairly, and that I am among the public auditors that I am among, who are not alone, but 7-8 different government auditors. This was referred to the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office with a criminal complaint report. It's been waiting here for three years for the Disruption of Coal for Poor Families to be delivered to the Public Prosecutor's Office. There's still an indictment and there's no trial, dear friends. This is in the Public Prosecutor's Office. It's an open crime. This was added to the third amendment of the Public Contraction Act while waiting at the Public Prosecutor's Office (r) me. This dam says: coal distributed to poor families is an exception to the Public Contraction Act. That's the gist of it. You'll say, "What's wrong with that?" Well, that's where the intent comes in. When you place this clause, it appears as a result of forgiveness, an attempt to forgive the crime of implicating the tender at the Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, coals distributed to poor families continue to be bought from these companies without contract and at exorbitant prices. I'm not saying it was bought at exorbitant prices, but the Court says it was bought at exorbitant prices, says it in the Court reports. That is why you have already changed the Law of the Court, and you have tied the court's hands, dear friends. And unfortunately, exceptions don't just come from these 3rd Articles, there's the Public Housing Administration. Let's talk about the Public Housing Authority, which you've always used politically, counting the number of dwellings, on the exception. The House Office has two tender forms. One of them is under this law -- which I'm about to tell you about -- and one of them is a product-sharing model, which has never been entered into the law, which has been passed against the law. The product-sharing model is basically: there's a state-owned land, the state gives its land to the contractor, in return for the apartment, and then the contractor builds buildings on it, and then it's divided at a certain rate between the contractor and the state, depending on the value of the land and the cost of the buildings. So, how do these projects happen because there's no law here? It is determined by a regulation between the two lips of the president of the TKI, dear friends. The president of the Turkish Cypriots is both making the tender and reviewing the complaints and writing the legislation. It's the government on its own. And what happens when you do that? Again, what I said was through the Court's reports. Seven projects have been reviewed by the Court. As a result of the examination of these seven projects, the cost of state-owned land has been shown low, and the costs of the contractor have been inflated, and 770 trillion states in seven projects have been damaged by the Court of the Former Prime Ministerial Supreme Control Board. So, what was made after this detection? Mr. Secretary was just here. He just left. They said, "It's a shame." They said, "We're giving you a warning punishment." In exchange for the loss of 770 trillion states, this state has said, "It's a shame! I appreciate this punishment very much. My dear brothers, my dear friends, the esteemed MPs; and are the contracts of TOKİYIE within the scope of the Public Contraction Act within the law? No, it's not, there's been another exception. This exception is defined in the extension of Article 68 (c). It says here that, without an application project, without a CED report, without publicisation, without a property problem, without zoning permission, without doing anything, he can tender in his head. Of course, TOKI will build fast housing, we have to do it. The ruling MPs will say. If this is so good, why is it only the TOKI? If it's bad, why would the others do this? There has to be a consistency for him, because that's not true. This is an exception to the world's laws. What happens when you do that? You are building a dwelling on the creek bed of Samsun. 11 lives, the ones at the bottom of the floor, the ones at the bottom, the ones at the bottom of the community, are dying. If it weren't for this amendment, those houses wouldn't be built on those creek edges, dear friends. TOKI builds housing, and then someone comes along and says, "This is my land. Why? Because he built a condo without solving the property. TOKI is building housing, and the main water is on the Jesus line. TOKI builds dwellings in Sakarya, tenders on a fore stake, building on a much cheaper radial basis, dear friends. I'm not saying any of this, because if I tell you, you're going to say it's upside down. This is all from the Court's reports, and I'm giving you a summary of these, dear friends. And the exceptions remain with this, dear friends? No. There's Law 6287, law enforcement is a violation of the Constitution, violation of secularism law 4+4+4. There is a 24th Amendment to this law. But how is this law presented to society? It is offered as the life of our prophet, the Qur'an as the lesson of the Prophet. For God's sake, how did your conscience allow the reading of the Qur'an with the life of our prophet, and the reading of the Qur'an, and the exclusion of the tablet tenders from the Law of Contraction? You could've at least brought it to me by different laws. Don't we know it's done for three big companies? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Exceptions don't end with that, dear friends. We're going to tear down and rebuild Turkey. You've come out of nowhere, the rebuilding of homes in disaster areas. And before the law came out, I told you that this was a Rant law, and it's true that there was a Rant law, because you brought it in, you put it there, and all the tenders will be negotiated. Now, let me tell you about the market-style tender. Friends, the tender is open contract. The tender is called the open tender, where all qualified companies can be informed and participate in the tender, so the state can get the most quality goods cheaply. It is also called a misdemeanor to close this open tender. But the government said: "There's an earthquake, there's a fire, there's a flood, there's a flood, there's something I can't see, you have to tender in three or five days. Come, brother, send an invitation to three people, get an offer from those three people, you bid like this. In the Law of Urban Transmutation, you have determined the contracting procedure in which hundreds of billions of dollars speak as a means of negotiation. I went out, and I told Mr. Minister: "There is no negotiation deal, there is no open contract." Mr. Secretary said to me: "Don't worry, companies will come to this, we will give the conditions to every company that comes." There will be an open contract, written in the law. I said, the Minister told me. One night there's a bag of law here. There was a clause in the middle of the night, a change in the Public Contraction Act... you know what it says? You don't give conditions to companies who don't receive invitations. You said that to me, Minister? Do you know what that means, dear friends? We've determined who we're going to give these contracts to. We'll just send them an invitation. Oh, if he hears about it, a firm, I'm sorry, but we've put the text in the law, so it's going to go to these. Are you going to destroy Turkey with this? You destroyed Turkey's financial administration, destroyed its 1,000-year-old culture. The property of the public, the property of the orphan, will go to these companies. After that, he mounts up on his horse and tells the nation about a project that will violate Istanbul's traffic. Whose land is this? This is the land of the government. Whose shame is that? That's a shame, dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, are your problems with public tenders over? No. That won't be enough time to explain. But a public tender was established in 2002. It says: "O Public Contract Agency, I have founded you, you are an independent organization, take your experts and run them." If there is a problem with public tenders, if there is corruption, if there is injustice, consider it an independent committee. What did you do first? You've eliminated the public auction agency's resensing authority. For example, the President of the Public Contraction Agency got up in the morning, and in a large newspaper, the headline in Zaman newspaper was: "This is how much bribes he has beaten in this tender." The President of the Public Contraction Agency is handcuffed. Why? Because the resen can't start studying. Is he left with this? No. A man entered, witnessed a contract or a tender, an incident. He's going to complain to the Public Contractor, saying: "My documents have been beaten by so many bribes, it's been so unfair, the state has done so much damage." He says, "Do you have $4,000?" I don't have 4,000 liras... (I'm sorry, you don't have 4,000 liras, so there's no corruption.) So you can't report corruption without paying $4,000, dear friends. And you invented something called the certainty of the document, and you put it into the law. What does that mean? You objected to the terms until three days before the tender date; you didn't, you didn't, you didn't. Either talk until now, if you know something, talk, or shut up forever from now on. Well, well, he showed up after the bidding... We found that a company's product was described abroad, and no other firm could get in. No, brother, you can't make a sound. After that, the company's official comes out and says: "We have bribed Turkey and Saudi Arabia 57m euros in exchange for 13 billion euros. We turn around and ask, brother, that's why these men are convicted, so they're fined. To whom did this 57m euro bribe go? No one knows anything, no one knows anything. It's like this happened in the Patagonian Republic. Then we read the Court reports of what was done to buy the products of this company. Gee, the opposition party MP, the opposition MP who has to read everything, doesn't he know that there's only one ruling MP, Mr. Prime Minister, there's such a serious claim, let's go over it. Worthy friends who have been sold for 13 billion euros, 57m euros in bribes. It's not just our problem, it's our problem if we represent this nation. We should all ask the ministers, the prime ministers. This is not just the duty of the CHP, the MPP, or the BDP, but the precious friends. These tender games have become so vile that a significant portion of the European Union's progress reports are now written on public tender legislation. Open up, read the European Union progress report. We are disgraced in the world, friends, we are disgraced in the world, and unfortunately, our disgraces will continue, as it is seen, because the new law brings another disgrace. Guys, I'm so sorry, because of the gas I'm eating, because of the water I'm bored with, my lungs are gone, and unfortunately, I'm having a hard time talking right now. Dear friends, if an investigation is normally launched in public tenders, if the prosecutor sees the implications of this investigation seriously, if the indictment is filed by the court -- which is not enough -- if the indictment is accepted by the court, and the case is brought against that firm, as the orphan's right is not to be trusted, the public tenders in Turkey say, "Don't put them in public tenders. The logic of the current Public Proposal Law is put on this, and there's no need to do any action on it, dear friends, the law automatically forbids it, and administrations these companies don't put them in public tenders, my dear friends. Now, with this motion, as long as the administration doesn't decide, these companies, which are banned from public tenders and suspected of crime, will enter public tenders. If the administration doesn't decide... they're making a condition there. All right, so let's do this in an actual example: in the Department of Energy, the indictment you've seen -- pictured, pictured, pictured -- they've agreed between them, raised the price, given each other the price of $1 million in payout, divided the contract among the bureaucrats, the picture of the bureaucrats' share, the wiretaps, not all the fake evidence, it's here, it's all here, it's all here. And how is it that the owner of this firm, when he's under arrest for these jobs, would give the same department a 300 million bid with two different tenders, guys? How do you give this firm a $300 million bid, dear friends? That's the indictment and the conviction. This firm was convicted here, and you know what one of the tenders is about? Our eyeballs, our children's futures, are related to the boron mines. The Boren mines are entrusted to this firm. This is a warrant entrusted to you. This law, this law you've brought us, is the law that's trying to justify these things. Do you know who these are? These are, as Ahmed Arif put it: These are, Vipers and centipedes, These, To our vaccine, to our bread It's the observers. We know these things, and we'll call this law "No." I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0104par0677	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Second speaker, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tan.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0105par0681	Mr. President, members of parliament, the speakers before me have also expressed that the existing tender law passed through parliament in January 2002 and has been changed several times, and the next amendment is the 26th amendment clause, the 26th time. Dear friends, one of these 26 changes was made by governments before the Justice and Development Party governments, one by one, and 25 by the Justice and Development Party. Of course, the first question, my dear friends, is that you've been in power for ten years. It turns out that you don't know this job properly, how to make a tender, how to make a tender law, how to do it, or how you don't know it, or how you want it to come into your account, whatever the mood is that way, you make a change in your mood. Which one? That is, of course, the ministers will answer, whoever answers... and we have a minister who has proved to be well versed in his duties before he became a deputy minister. I'm talking about Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar. He has a professional background, he has a service, he has work, he has things we criticize, he has things we don't criticize, but no one knows about the construction business, Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar doesn't know the tender legislation. I'm a civil engineer, 32 years of civil engineering. Well, Mr. Secretary, why don't you take a proper once-in-a-lifetime contract law in front of this House, in accordance with the European Union criteria, in accordance with the transparency criteria that the whole world accepts? You don't bring this, and why do you make changes like these, in twos and threes, which will wear your career down, hurt your career, broken, open to doubt, open to debate, open to criticism? Dear friends, this last item is very clear, one item; an arrangement regarding crimes involving Anti-Terror Law 3713 and those related to them, and here, as this ban is being explained, there is another extension, in the form of the dams, in the form of jokes, and there is also a ban on the Court or administrations. Now, my dear friends, what is this Anti-Terror Act 3713? If you love your God, have you ever read it or read it, have you seen what is involved in it? So, I'm one of those people who's in the loop. I have been judged many times by Anti-Terror Law number 3713, and have been acquitted, and have been judged. One of the things I've been convicted of is an interview with Actual magazine in 1994, an interview I'm going to sign under today. What I'm on trial now is to go to the funeral of the guerrilla from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and to study Fatiha there. So, is there a Kurdish citizen in the region today who has the slightest Kurdish sensitivity -- the smallest -- that you have described as "criminal" or that the prosecutors have overstated their powers, that judges have interpreted by above their powers, under their fingernails, that is not within the scope of this crime? Well, then what do you want to do? Then take out a law clause, and say: "Look, no citizen who is sensitive to the Kurdish issue, and I don't say Kurds -- can't enter these tenders." You make a law, you get rid of it, and we get rid of it. Dear friends, one of the things the Prime Minister has expressed most today is that we are against regional nationalism. We're against it. In the sense of nationalism, nationalism is a thought that is literally thrown into the waste of history. I'm asking you now, I've also submitted a question proposal: the birthplaces and population records of the founders of the Van earthquake companies; the findings of the founders of all major tenders in Turkey, based on the birthplaces and population records. Dear friends, we're faced with a situation today that, believe me, in sums of all these big deals and jobs, a total number of these go to contractors in a very large area. I'm not gonna name names, I don't want to go into polymia. But let me tell you something that even today, even on the way to Diyarbakir-Bingöl, even a large portion of the irrigation canals in the region, even though there are dozens of AK PARTI contractors from the region, they're taking contractors from a certain area. We can discuss the numbers of these. If I'm missing, if I'm saying it wrong, figure out the numbers, figure out the sums. Today, the Black Sea Highway is -- $5 billion, dear friends -- and the Ilisu Dam (1 billion is 100m euros) -- has again taken the former president of the sports club of the Prime Minister's constituency, and this has come to a point where the country has crossed its borders. In negotiations with Barzani, in dialogues, in relationships, the same company also took Erbil Airport, Duhok Airport, and Erbil-Kerkuk took the double route. Whatever coincidence this is, it happens. Now none of this exists. If you say so, you will go out and present documents, documents, and situations. If it's a natural matter, it's a natural way. If you say, well, we're making a very clear call, dear friends, then take out an item and say: "If there are no individuals who are sensitive to the Kurdish issue, public tenders cannot be given, they can't be given." Dear friends, speaking of these tenders, the most important issue is the ongoing matter of corruption. There's no other explanation if a law is being changed 25 times by a power that's been in power for ten years. Look, right now, Diyarbakır Airport, which ended its application on September 27th, has a contract for the terminal building. Again, from this stand, I've had a press conference, asked questions. I've been an engineer all these years, I've never seen a theater like this. As severe as possible, all right, let's have it. 170 trillion, so with today's money, with the new money, 170 million jobs have been asked to finish; be wanted. 50 million, that's 50 trillion credits, reference, 30 million, 30 trillion, that's... that's it, that's it, that's it. So, what do I object to? After putting all this down, it says: "First, a prelim is made, enough firms are determined." Okay, so that's good, so we've seen it in the past, and you're doing it the way you know it; you've done it. But then he says: "Five companies are determined from within these companies." I just re-interviewed the interests of the State Air Square, and I said, "Well, brother, how are you going to identify these five companies?" You put in a competency, you put in a very heavy condition, 15 firms passed that requirement. So, why are you identifying five more of these? He said, "Sir, we're going to score; we're going to call 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Number two: you put in competency, you score, then call the company with the highest score, and say: I gave you the contract. And don't do any tenzilates, and don't hurt yourself. Dear friends, this is no game, this is no disgrace. Anyone who does this and knows it knows it. If you've put in a competency, it's enough now. Anyway, that's the qualifications you put in, and that's what you put in it. After that, the fitters come in, make the offer. After that, you'll consider it. Dear friends, we will therefore be followers of this Diyarbakır Airport terminal building to the end. He's got 86,000 square feet of closed space, six blinds. How much would that cost? What happens? There are all sorts of similar jobs in the world, in Turkey, and there are examples, and let's see how much it goes for. We'll see about that together, and I'm on top of it. Now, my dear friends, today, the Ilisu Dam has been auctioned off for loans from abroad, and the firms who received this tender for nearly four years have not found this consortium loan, again, from the region that I'm talking about. So I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, I'm going to bring it from China, I'm going to bring it from America. For four years it's been neglected and finally it's been decided where these loans are from, where they've been found or not, because if they can't get credit, they're going to have to have a normal open tender, and today all the jobs of the State Water Department are going to go 50 per cent. 1 billion 100m euros is a 500m-euro job today. All the questions we've made about it, all the research proposals, unfortunately, have come to no serious conclusion. Dear friends, there's a Urban-Habur highway planned to pass through Diyarbakir and Batman. We've spoken to the ministers and the authorities over and over again. There's a General Manager of the Highways, Noah says, doesn't say prophet; I'll build a parallel highway through the road that passes through the Viranşehir, which we call the current "Ipek Road" in the Urfa-Habur. We're screaming, we're shouting, Mr. Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek, Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Mr. Cevdet Yilmaz, it's all coming into play, we can't get past a General Manager of the Highways because of a cost of several hundred million dollars. Put the feasibility of all this in front of us. Look, this will pass through Diyarbakır, alternative studies, projects are ready; Batman will pass through, take advantage. In cumulative, in total, there's no serious difference, even the advantages, we claim, let's discuss them. A study and an alternative don't even get in our way. We're gonna follow this to the end. Habur Gate: The Minister is here, we've asked many times, Mr. Secretary. Put an end to this scandal in Habur. Look, on holiday holidays, we have relatives, nieces, and nephews, and we're willing to go through the black border. We pass through here in an hour, wait 20 hours on the way. We've told him so many times, we've told the governor of Şırnak, we've told him so many times here. We're constantly told that there's going to be a new bridge, there's going to be new doors, there's going to be 32 bankers, there's only one working there, and they're going to lunch break at noon. Five cars are allowed to pass by Kurdistan, and I'm talking about a taxi crossing on foot, which is worse than the other trucks and so on. We ask you many times. When will the tenders be held? When will the new customs doors be opened? What if we don't want you to come in, we don't want integration, we don't want dialogue. If you say so, come, express it openly; you too, get rid of it, and we'll get rid of it. With our Speaker, the President of the Chambers and Stock Exchanges and I visited and admired Edirne Gategate customs. It's an average car passing through customs, year average, one hour and four minutes. Officially, my motion to question Mr. Secretary's response is one hour and four minutes. Come and see the state of Habur. And again, when we told Diyarbakir to build a new international airport, they came again for a lot of reasons, and they put us in such a position that it was as if we had come from the village yesterday, they said, "Sir, there is no second airport within 60 kilometers of the same province's airspace." Right, wrong, wrong, we looked. Today, friends, there is a third airport in what we might call Greenville, the former Yeşilköy, near the new Ataturk Airport. Sabiha Gökçen Airport exists again. There are three airports in Berlin, Charles De Gaulle Airport in Paris, Orly in Orly, and again, in many cities of the world, there are three, four airports around the same city. Three planes land every day, 17 planes land in Diyarbakır. The international airport was taken during the past administrations, which was made to Urbana, which today cannot afford electricity, water, staff costs, or afford it. So what's the punishment for this Diyarbakır? The university... there are 90 thousand students at the University of Conium Selçuk, Diyarbakır was 12,700, up until three years ago; the fight, noise, every TV show, and we've only been able to come up with 26,000 numbers this year. There are 26,000 acres of this university, one of Turkey's largest universities, along with ODTU (ODTU), the first and second. Today, I repeat, the number of students in Diyarbakır is only 26,000 when there are 90 thousand students in Konya, 100,000 students in Eskişehir. Diyarbakira is being held in a 200 trillion new prison with 200 million in old money. You see, my friend just told me, we take such good care of prisoners... that you go to bed inside! 200 trillion... on the one hand is Diyarbakır Dicle Valley, although Mr. Minister's promise, which I hope will continue, even though he was in the government program, he was given 200 trillion prisons, while half of which would give Diyarbakır a Bosphorus Strait, the Dicle Valley Project is waiting there. Dear friends, these investments have to be a priority. If you take what's in front of you and you put it in prison, believe me, if you build one more level of construction in place of these existing prisons, you'll still get nowhere. We want this Dicle Valley Project to be activated as soon as possible, because the Prime Minister's promise is in Diyarbakir, and within the government programme. For this -- of course, it won't end in a day -- it has to work in co-ordination of State Water Affairs, Dicle University, Diyarbakır Governor, Diyarbakır Metropolitan Mayor. I repeat, Mr. Secretary has instructions on this, so hopefully this will continue, but we would like to ask that this instruction be carried out immediately. Dear friends, Urbana's 30,000-strong stadium ended three years ago, and Diyarbakır has not even been tendered yet. Today it's going to be a project, it's going to be a location delivery. The problem hasn't been solved, it's going to be a problem again, of course, with the talks, so... unfortunately, it's a black humor, and Diyarbakir has dropped three clusters. Mr. Minister of Diyarbakır has made his uncle the head of Diyarbakırspork, a very successful period has passed, three sets have fallen, and today there is already the state of Diyarbakırspor. The Erzincan-Diyarbakir-Mardin railway is being studied. A disaster has been prevented at the last moment, my friends, studies have been done, in Diyarbakır, the middle of the city, the middle of the zoning area, he doesn't know about the zoning plan. We mobilized the city, the heads of the department, all of them, and at the last minute, we'd overcome this lack of coordination again. Dear friends, there's a lot of trouble, a lot of time to tell, hours to tell. But we ask the government and the Minister, who we believe knows these things: Mr. Secretary, please, prepare a proper tender law, properly, that you won't have to change 25 times, that you will eliminate all the corruption, thefts, mistakes, defects in Turkey, that you will not be blamed, that you will not be relieved. We're not going to bring it from space, we're going to look at whoever's doing it right in the world, we're going to look at our terms, and we're going to make a proper contract law, or you're going to make a law, and we're going to give it to whoever we want. My respects, thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0106par0706	Thank you, Mr. Tan. According to the Civil Code 61, the Minister has a two-minute request for a statement from his place. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0107par0711	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to share with you the following statement on the practices of the Habur Customs Gate: There have been repeated questions about this subject, both verbal and written. Habur, of course, is one of our most important doors. The entry and exit take place in the framework under which the neighbouring country's customs administration and the Turkish Customs Administration agreed, so the capacity is taken into account. It's true, but the daily capacity is 2,000 vehicles entering, 2,000 vehicles exiting. So if 2,000 vehicles couldn't get through the door, if they couldn't get out, then that customs door didn't work with enough capacity that day, we'll look into it. To increase that capacity, of course, it is possible to activate additional units with the approach of the neighbouring country. So you didn't get that approach with the neighboring country; we repeat it over and over again, you're in no position to do the extra bridge foot in spite of them, but we insist on doing so. I'm sure that in the coming days, we will have reduced the problems in Habur. He says thank you, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0108par0714	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Continue]] Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. Mr. Günal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0109par0723	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute you all. Dear friends, thank God you're finally meeting a law on the Public Contraction Act, not to add to the other laws, but it's also the law that brings another exception to it. So we say, "I think we've got an offer on the Public Contraction Act. We're going to make an arrangement, something will happen." This time you're going to have another way of correcting the law itself. In all the work done before this, in the bill of law, in all of its proposals, in all of its proposals, they are exempt from the Law of Public Contraction, from the Law of State Contraction, except that it is an exception, it does not apply to this clause, nor is it made up. Now, it's mixed with jokes, and we said, "Get up, get rid of this Public Contraction Act, shut down the Public Contraction Agency, there's already an excuse, there's some corruption. We're afraid you'll take it seriously, because some developments are going to go there. I'm looking at the general reason for this law now, our friend wrote it, good. Now, things like this, of course, sometimes our friends get in trouble, and the ministries bring it in, and they offer it when it's small, so they get into trouble, and then they get blamed. I'm looking at the general reason, it says here that, according to the following provisions -- after stating the 59th article -- the people's case is being filed, not being able to participate in the tenders of institutions and organisations under Article 4734 until the end of the trial, but also by the reference of Article 58 of the Law to the second joke -- the other partners of the law -- are not adding to the tenders -- and the purpose is that those who have been filed a civil suit in their rights should be allowed to continue to participate in the litigation and to participate in the litigation of those who have committed these violations, according to Article 17th article. Is that correct? That's what the general reason says, and then our friend at the Commission said so. Now, have mercy! We sit in the morning, we get up in the evening, and we argue. Now in the Commission, our Speaker was here, we talked about the arrested MPs, we discussed other issues. Aren't these cases going on? Is there a verdict? Don't you all get up and blame them? Well, then, why were those articles written in the ongoing case and the Public Contraction Act, my friends? Turn around for God's sake, look. Let me read it to you: - See what the forbidden verbs and actions say: ίHile, promise, threat, influence, profitability, agreements, intimidation, bribery, or other attempts to corrupt or attempt tenders. Another: to hesitate, prevent accession, to offer a deal to the willing, to encourage or encourage or influence the decision of competition or tenders. • To arrange, or use, or attempt to use, or use false assurances. Other: (D) to read myself, other than their ability to offer alternative proposals, to make a direct or indirect offer by a willing person or by others, directly or indirectly, to make more than one offer on behalf of himself or others. Article 11 states that you cannot participate in the tender, but you have to take part in the tender. Now, why is it opening? They're suing him for these crimes. What are we lifting? We're opening up a way for contractors, firms, who are being sued for these crimes to get back into the tender. Add what? ▪ The case is by court order. Guys, what's that like? I mean, they may have brought it to you innocently, but... well, why did we write these articles one by one? I mean, he said he was banned, all of that... so, what are you gonna do now? I don't speak too heavily for him, who's already been remembered for certain doubts, who's still on trial -- but when the institution is compromised, then you leave the responsible minister to the administration's decision. Dear friends say that the law states that it is the same thing as the law. Who's picking him up? The administration will detect it. There is no court order. What will happen when you give it? Now, let's say the person who's being sued for a civil suit goes on, he's being tried for a crime, you put him in a tender, you didn't burn his warranty, then he's guilty, what happens? What are you going to do when the trial is finally convicted?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0110par0732	They'll sleep well at night.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0109par0733	Now, my dear friends, you're being unfair here. Yet, Mr. Secretary, before the investigation of the mayor who was brought in on an unsigned petition, a complaint, is over, you are writing a letter of immediate dismissal from the police department before he goes to the prosecutor's office; of course, if he's from the opposition party. I mean, those in power are getting five and a half years in prison, going to the Supreme Court, getting finalized by the Supreme Court -- just because people heard about it -- the Prime Minister suspended two or three of them in the last few months, as a sample, but after it was finalized. Now, is there a case? No. Without a case, when you're inside, does the Minister take it? He's taking it. Is it growing again? It's growing. What's it based on? He hasn't been convicted yet, he's been released, he's out there, the mayor, he's still on trial. In fact, we have the mayor of Adana Metropolitan, who was acquitted of all of them, who was officially taken from him, who was elected mayor. Is there any other explanation for this, or does he still have a motive? He's been acquitted of all cases, so why don't you return it? This way, sir, their case continues, these are good children. Our friends asked us how many? I mean, maybe there's more, but there are 5,412 people talking about it, and the Public Contraction Agency officials have informed the Commission. Now, dear friends, is there mercy here? I mean, look, it really... I mean, does it really fit in your conscience, Mr. Sky? My dear friend of the Commission, when you're giving this, let's really put people into the process in an innocent way. You said, "You're innocent." But now, if it were, it wouldn't be written on this clause anyway, which is not a simple mistake, friends, it's a public case. In what crimes does a civil suit open? We wrote it here. We've written the crimes on the 17th article, and we've referred to them here at 58, 59, so let's put them away. What if it's a simple job, if it's an injustice? So, whether it's 50,000 people, it's not 5,000 people, it's 100,000 people, so let's get them out of prison, let's get them out of here, they're still on trial, so there's no convictions, you need to release them all. If we do so on the basis of its wife, it is called, then we must eliminate them all, my friends. Then the entire Ergenekon case you call the Umraniye investigation is a sin, a shame, a sin, to let go of anyone who isn't guilty in a sledgehammer case. In the Constitution, then they are innocent, and we all execute them every day. Don't they talk in the papers, on TV, even on the council stand? Karine only applies to contractors? I don't understand. If there's something we don't know, Mr. Secretary, the bidders are here, representatives of the Public Contraction Agency, hopefully, you'll have to explain it to us. So in the meantime, if there's something that we really don't know about, which is very clear, and I've looked at the commission records, and I've read the relevant reasons. Unfortunately, it turns out that the Public Contraction Act itself has become an exception, my friends. So the arrangement counted 50 or 55 friends, and he was just saying the number, so it's over 50, but he's found 55, so it can't be now. It's a system of law that's constantly going around, and we can't find it when we're constantly patching it up, and the main text is missing, and the patches are more dominant. I refer them to your conscience. So what's going on here, sir, is that the civil trial continues, but the reason why they may be innocent doesn't sound innocent at all. Because I've just told you, our fellow criminals who are convicted of those crimes, if they're finalized and they can't finish it, look, he's... he's counted it here with all his clarity; he's mixed up the contract with corruption, fraud, bribery, intimidation, coercion, threats, all of them. Now, they're a... but look what they're saying: that's what they're saying down there... the administration's already identified it, but you added a case, a court.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0111par0738	He says, "Or... "
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0109par0739	Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0111par0740	It's him or him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0109par0741	Now, when you put pressure on the administration without a court order...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0112par0742	Who's in charge? Who's in charge?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0109par0743	You can't file a civil suit without detection, Mr. Runir. So when you're suing, without any concrete evidence, without an investigation of the case, without an investigation, without an investigation, who's going to file a civil suit? So when the prosecutor opens up, without any evidence, if there's no battery, no threat, don't press the guy's office, and don't engage. If you didn't tell him or there's no fraud in the documents you gave him, how come he suddenly finds out about it? Because he says in the form of a test kit, it's not a public case until he's identified. So if there was anything, the authority of the administration... on the contrary, then that would mean that the court should continue and the administration shouldn't. You'll be tied up by this bill of law. You say, "Let go of my brother, and don't make any decisions until the trial is over." What's he going to do then? He's already in trouble, talking, under pressure. So, what's the administration going to do, who's going to take over, who's going to take over, the Department of Public Works or the Minister of Environment and Urbanization? They're after another law, thinking about how we can smoke the land and give it to the ground. I mean, I don't think they're gonna take any more initiative at this point. With something added at the last second, he'll be in front of you in the next few days. It's passed through the commission, it's distributed. He's worried about what we'll do at TOKI's, where we'll build a shopping mall, near 160 acres of land. Now, if you've been able to identify and refer it to the court since then, especially if you've written it here with the law, then no one in the administration will be able to stand up and say, "I've made this statement, I've punished you." They're already scared. There's constant pressure. So if your wife here is innocent, I mean, they're innocent until proven guilty. If that's our only reason, then we're gonna have to make a lot of laws here all the time. They can now black out the evidence, even by the court's initiative, without enforcing the law. But just in case, they can flee abroad. The friends they're holding must be taken out as soon as possible. And first, if there's anything missing, we need to make that arrangement. Today, Mr. Speaker, you do it, and when four groups agree, we obey everything. So, if the bride, sincerely withdraws this offer from our dear friend, in a healthy way... if there's anything else, it's just about collateral, it's not like that. They said, "Don't let the collateral burn." But when you put it in there, if you put it in there, it's not a guarantee, it's a court decision, it's no longer a way to go back, it's under pressure, it's a matter of corruption. The most important thing here is that in terms of the return of the market, these companies need to be sorted out. So, like I said, how many thousands have there been, how many hundred there have been, I'm not arguing who it is, I'm basically saying that it's against the law, that it's not going to be applied equally, so... we know that even the smallest tenders are having problems, even the cleaning tenders are having problems. He's the reason all these crimes have been identified one by one. So in addition to the exceptions, we'll have broken a proper Law. I want my friends to consider these warnings, and when we really want to do something here, let's not take advantage of other victims and other public resources, and let's not allow the budget funds to go to different places and irregularities. May our friends accept our wishes. If Mr. President takes a break, I think they can assess the matter before we go to the meeting, otherwise it'll be under heavy suspicion. So we're making a decision with people who've been sued before -- we've always made a habit of it -- that the ongoing courts will be nullified. Now we have here, we have other bills, we add one thing in all of them, we put ourselves in court. Dear friends, this is the living. You've already sided with the court, the judiciary in some way. It's still not enough, and this time we rule within the law to comfort them. I mean, we were really talking about the legislature, the judgment, the execution, the separation of forces. It's already been passed by the law, God rest his soul, he's died, and the judgment is soon passed, and he's dead, but let's still stick something in it... we're making our own judgment, we're putting it in the jurisdiction as a law. There's no law here, we just set up the system, we make those laws, the court executes them. We're going, we don't like what he's doing, the prosecution has rejected this, we've got a law, we've got one thing out of the Supreme Court, we've got another law that we don't like, and let's just say that's not going to apply to those who go ahead in government courts. So, let's do our legislature work, let's make sure they obey the regulations, let's check if those institutions fit, let's make an effective inspection by the Court of Parliament. Today his budget has been discussed upstairs, and our friends are still working on restructuring. So, all forces say, let all men perform their functions, let all men perform their functions, thank you, give you respect.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0113par0747	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY, Abdulkerim Gök Şanlıurfa MP. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0751	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the amendment to Article 11 (a) of Public Contraction Law 4734. I hereby salute our great nation and the Holy Parliament. Dear lawmakers, I've avoided particular concepts so that my words don't start with polemics. And I'm not going to give a speech that will lead to any polarity in this conversation, but it's important to say that my dear speaker friends before me, who were here -- except for one speaker friend -- have only touched on the subject in one last minute. So I'm going to go to the conclusion that I feel as if the text of the law, this proposal of the law, is not understood. I'm going to try to explain which areas we're going to be able to address if this law is passed with your support. However, two of my dear speakers expressed: "With this change of law, the Public Contraction Law has changed for the 25-26th time. "
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0115par0753	30.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0754	The number doesn't matter, but we know very well that life goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. There has to be a consequence of the globalization of the world, which is that we also came across a concept that was very intense in the past Turkish political life, which is called the status quo.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0116par0755	Is there so much change in Germany, France? In England, in Switzerland...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0756	If we're governed by laws that are far behind society, here are the economic, political, social, and political setbacks that went unresolved ten years ago.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0116par0757	Not even in China, so many changes in China.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0758	We say that we bring up laws that concern society closely and are at least one step ahead of society. Not 25, not 35, but if it has to be changed 50 times, I'd like to put it this way.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0117par0759	You'd better change the law.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0118par0760	If you could just take care of the pensioner's situation, it's all about the tenders! Always bidding, always something.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0761	If there is a hitch in this area today, then Parliament's duty is to eliminate 5,424 people in this area and the problems that will arise after that. That's why we make the legal arrangements.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0118par0762	Take care of the unsubstantiated teachers. Propose law on graduates of economic and administrative sciences.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0763	Another speaker, my friend, gave examples by comparing the situation of the arrested MPs with the Public Contraction Law, with a reference that concerns Turkish criminal law closely. I want to express in particular that the arrangement of both laws is different in their field. Now, what am I trying to bring in with this law, in what field are we trying to set up with this law...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0118par0765	What problem do you solve in the country?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0119par0766	You're bidding on AKP people.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0767	I'll try to explain it with your permission. The Public Contracting Act 4734 regulates the rules of the tenders carried out under the Law, but also regulates what kinds of sanctions will be implemented in the context of the implementation of these tenders and preventing the tender process from being carried out in a healthy manner. So here, right now, the 59th article of the Public Contraction Act, Article 11 and Article 17, which we've brought in, in fact, as we refer to as the wife, in the law, is not guilty, unless the basic wife of the crime is finalized by the courts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0119par0769	Then why did you set up the Public Contraction Agency?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0770	These sanctions have been discussed in various articles of the Law. Among the sanctions in question, the proposal has been excluded from consideration...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0119par0771	Why did you set up the Public Relations Agency? Get him out of here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0772	...a restraining order has been issued against those who are willing, by executive order or by court order, and the temporary guarantee of those who are willing is the registration of income. For example, in Article 17 of the Law, verbs or actions which are forbidden to be made during the tender process of contracting have been counted one by one, and provisions concerning the ban on those who commit these forbidden verbs or actions have been imposed by the ministry and on the responsibility of those who act in this manner have been set in the fourth section. However, the ban on participation in tenders is not solely due to illegal verbs or actions.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0120par0775	Explain which companies will be favoured.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0776	In accordance with Article 59 of the Law, those who have been ordered to file a civil suit cannot enter into the tenders of institutions and organisations under Law 4734 until the end of the trial. In addition, in view of the reference to Article 58 of the Law and Article 58 of the Law, in the event that the public case is a private firm, the entire company's partners have more than half of its capital capital capital, the real and corporate partners who have more than half of its capital, if they are partners in a civil suit, the individual company does not share more than half of its capital, as long as they are partners in a private company. In the case of the 1st article of the Law (a) which has been proposed to change under the amendment proposal, the decision to ban those who are temporarily or permanently prohibited from participating in public tenders is made under Article 11 of the Law (a) under the Act of the 59th Amendment. The current state of the clause leads to the registration of all temporary guarantees submitted by those with all kinds of prohibitions, whether it be the decision of the willing, whether it be the court's decision to ban them, whether it is a public case against them, or a ban on joining the tender, which is due to special legal regulations. Thus, the existing text of the Law contains severe sanctions, regardless of the nature of the ban on taking part in the tender. This can also cause major damage, for example, if a partner, for those who are willing to bid as a joint venture, is unaware of the ban on being involved in the tender -- that another partner is somehow involved. In the event of a voluntary restraining order on an administrative procedure, this decision will be published in the Official Gazette, making it public, allowing anyone involved objectively to be aware of it. Again, in the case of a restraining order on the court's decision, which has been issued against him from participating in public tenders, those in this situation are listed as banned by the Public Contraction Agency and are allowed to monitor those who have been banned from all administrations. In contrast, since there are no lists of those who are unable to participate in tenders due to regulations in private laws, the pursuit of this situation leads to problems both for the willing and for the administration. With these problems available in the application, which will continue to exist as long as the existing text of the law is preserved, it is also useful to examine the subject in terms of basic legal principles.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0121par0781	There's a list of all the illegals, which firms are banned by state institutions, totaling 8,190 people, all of them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0782	What is essential in the state of law is that no one should be treated as guilty without a verdict against them. Therefore, given the possibility that these individuals will be acquitted at the end of the trial, their involvement in the tenders will be assessed under Article 11 of the Law, and temporary guarantees will be recorded and in a sense also will result in a violation of rights and justice.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0121par0783	It's all on the Internet now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0784	Due to specific regulations or regulations in Article 59 of the Law, which are included in Article 59 of the Law, if those who are unable to participate in the tenders should be excluded from the assessment of their proposals alone, however, the temporary assurance of Law number 4734 concerning those in this situation should not be applied to the rights of those who are in charge of saving revenues or establishing new bans on their rights. It is also considered that the forbidden statement in the text proposed to be changed also leads to uncertainty as a cover. There are some grounds to discuss whether this statement refers to administrative decisions or those forbidden by the court's decision, or those whose rights have been brought to trial or those who have been prevented from taking part in the tender with special regulations.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0121par0785	No, it says here that the state's attorney's office is 2,783, severe criminal court 1,748.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0786	In this context, the temporary guarantees presented by those who are unable to participate in the tenders are expected to be removed from the uncertainty faced in the application and who are not able to participate in the tenders due to special regulations. I would like to first point out that if the proposed law is adopted and in effect, there will be no change in the situation of those whose guarantees have been recorded in income and banned from participating in tenders due to their involvement in the tenders, even though a public lawsuit has been filed against him in the past. Here, the speakers before me expressed the opposite. The law proposal does not include an arrangement that will challenge such an application as extradition of their guarantees or abolition of their restraining order. The fact is, the amendment offer will only cover procedures to be established once it is in effect. Furthermore, there is no way to open the way for those who have been indicted by the law proposal to participate in the tenders. The sentence is in effect in the second statement of Article 59 of Public Contraction Law 4734, which prevents people from taking part in the tender. As long as the ruling is in effect, there is no legal way, ever, for those who have been indicted to participate in the tenders. The arrangement that we want to bring with the proposed law proposal is intended to abolish the fact that temporary guarantees that are being carried out in the event of public lawsuits are involved in the tenders, and that it does not aim to ensure that those who have been indicted for civil lawsuits participate in tenders, and it does not include an arrangement in that direction. As a matter of fact, the reason for the proposal of the law has been clearly highlighted. Basically, it's a very simple and understandable explanation of why such a law proposal is needed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0122par0790	Give me the reason you wrote for the MPs.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0114par0791	As you know, a public case can be filed against the real and legal people involved in the tenders for various reasons. It is not always possible that they are aware that the public case has been filed against those involved in the tenders, or that public trial is a ban on taking part in the tender. While not knowing the law is an excuse, it is considered more appropriate that the regulation of the social state should not be taken into account from the understanding that people are well aware of every legislation or that they can be financially held responsible for the legal provisions they do not have an expert in. Thus, it has become common in practices that the willing to participate in the tender or the partners involved in the tenders are not aware of the public trial of other partners. In this way, the willingness to participate in tenders has been imposed on him because he did not know that a public case was being filed, so the contractors who participated in the tenders face severe sanctions. So, with this proposed law, nothing has ever been considered or intended but the prevention of this injustice and victimhood that has arisen in practice. On the other hand, given how many people will be able to benefit from this amendment now, given that the law can be passed after it's been passed, for every day, the list of cases of civil lawsuits can be changed. Moreover, the effect of this change is not only limited to those who have filed a civil suit against him, but also within the scope of these changes, which are impossible to participate in tenders due to special legal regulations due to the duties or official titles they carry out. As my last words, I would like to state that the proposed amendment is an arrangement that is in accordance with the rule of law and aims to establish the rule of legal security, in order to ensure that the law's text is made clear for the law's terms. I hope and hope that, with your contribution, this offer becomes legal. With this arrangement, I once again salute the great Parliament and our beloved nation, hoping to bring life to a fairer practice.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0123par0797	Thank you, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0124par0798	It's none of their business, Mr. Sky. It's not about the nation, it's about the capital.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0123par0799	On behalf of his people now, Mr. Osman Boyraz, the Istanbul MP. Mr. Boyraz, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0125par0802	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Public Contraction Act and to the Report on Public Development, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission. I hereby salute our beloved nation and our great Parliament, who are watching us on the screen. Dear lawmakers, Public Contracting Act 4734 determines the basic and procedures to be implemented in the tenders of public enterprises and organisations, which are subject to public law and under public supervision or public resources. In Article 59 of the Public Requital Act, titled the criminal responsibility of the Envoys, whether it is determined after the completion of the commitment and acceptance process, there are actions laid out in Article 17; fraud, promise, threat, use of influence, benefit, agreements, bribery, or other attempts to engage in the tender transactions, or attempt to deter, even if it is determined after the completion of the commitment and adoption of the contract, that will affect the decision to make an agreement with those who are willing, whether to make an agreement, or to use false documents, or to make a decision on the basis of the basis of a proposal of a proposal to be committed by the Constitutional Court, or to be subjected by other institutions, under the same agreement or by the same means of the Constitution or by the Constitution, under which there is not to be considered by the same institution or by the Constitution or by the law. In accordance with the current ruling, the partners of the company, who have more than half of its capital, are real and corporate partners, in the event that the public case has been launched, as well as the entity has more than half of its capital, in the event that they are partners in a public firm, as well as that they are partners in a private firm, because of the reference to the second joke of Article 58 of the Article and Article 58 of the Law. Mr. President, in Article 11 of the Public Contraction Act, it has been decided that those who have been banned from participating in temporary or continuous public tenders, can not participate in tenders directly or indirectly or under contractors in any way on behalf of themselves or others, but will be excluded from tenders, and temporary guarantees will be recorded. According to Article 11 of Article 11 of the Law (a) under Article 11 (a), the decision to ban those who have been banned from participating in public tenders temporarily or permanently under the laws of this Law and other laws has been made under the rule of the Law on People who have been filed under the 59th Article of the Law. Dear lawmakers, those who have been prohibited from participating in public tenders are being processed on the list of banned persons held by the Public Contraction Agency, and all administrations are allowed to monitor those who have been banned. However, since there is no list of those who are unable to participate in tenders due to regulations in private laws, the pursuit of what is happening in this situation leads to problems both for willing and for administration. It is also clear that those who have filed civil suit against Article 4734 under Article 59 of the Law are being held by the Public Contraction Agency, that they will not be able to participate in public tenders during the trial process, that the possibility of being acquitted at the end of the trial will result in a violation of the rights of the 11th Amendment. Therefore, it would be appropriate for those who are unable to participate in tenders due to special regulations or regulations in Article 59 of the Law to participate in the tenders, to be excluded from the assessment of their proposals and to be subject to the application of the provisions of Law 4734 on Articles 11 I wish you the best for our country, for the adoption of this law proposal, and for the sake of this country, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0126par0810	Thank you, Mr Boyraz. Now, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Mr. Erdogan Bayraktar... Here you go, Mr. Flagtar. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0815	Mr. President, I'm going to try to present information to the High Council on the amendment to Public Contraction Law 4734. On this occasion, I salute you all. First of all, I'd like to state and present that this proposal is not a reciprocal arrangement that is intended to be brought to Article 11 of the Public Contraction Law, and it has no retroactive property, and it has a forward property. So in the meantime, our very valuable speaker friends have expressed very good ideas here, and this law has come into effect in early 2001, and has been made in many changes so far, and these criticisms are very accurate, but I want to say that very dear friends, in 2001 the state of the Republic of Turkey was in a state of distress with the IMF. We had a serious debt to Turkey, the body of Turkey, the structure of the Republic of Turkey, and the structure of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0128par0817	Don't deviate, Mr. Secretary. What does that have to do with anything? What does it have to do with the IMF?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0818	Allow me. We're in the process of a very rapid development and development move, and we just...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0128par0820	We thought you were going to make a technical statement.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0821	WE have made 35,000 tenders in TOKI, dear friends, and a tender institution is essential for the development and development of a country, or an institution similar to the tender institution, and the tender law is essential. And we've been paying attention to the fact that we've been standing on the tender law, and we've been watching, and we've been protecting, and we've basically in a tender, and we've never touched the spirit of the tender in this regard, we've never touched the language, we've never touched the message, we've never touched the word, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it. The bottom line here is, the main thing to be brought in with this clause is that, sir, in investigations conducted by prosecutors, civil confidentiality is essential. Why is it fundamental? One is essential to protecting the citizens' law, which is essential to not offending the citizens, especially if it's a merchant, in order not to shake up his credit card in the market, in order not to undermine the credit information in the banks, in this process, it's essential that he gets a letter of security. You've witnessed a lot of classified investigations, valuable lawmakers, and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0129par0823	The congressman has to be tried without arrest to make a motion, so why don't you give him the right?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0824	...investigators, citizens, private firms, low-profile partnerships, collective, commando partnerships, or capital companies -- or more than 51 per cent of anonymous companies or limited companies -- are not aware of this investigation, are often unaware of it, and can naturally tender when it does, and when it does, guarantees are burned, bans are coming and out of business. It is intended to be done with this arrangement, whether it be right or wrong, it is still being excluded from the tender. This is clearly in the Law; it's in Article 11; it's in Article 17; it's in Article 59; it's in all of the Law. It's just that there's a mass investigation going on without your knowledge, and you don't know it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0130par0826	Let me know.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0827	He's a partner, but he's out of interest. It's a common partnership, a collective partnership, or he may not know about it. Well, that's not fair.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0130par0828	Call it in, e-mail it in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0829	Even if he didn't know about it, he was bidding...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0131par0830	Let him ask 118, he's got one there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0831	In any case, sir, in a tender, the person who has entered into the tender has to leave him out of the tender if he has committed an act that requires corruption, corruption, irregularity, or any kind of discharge. After that, the prosecutor has the responsibility to press charges against the prosecution and to file a civil suit after the prosecutor's examination. In this case, the ban is already coming and the warrant is being burned, but without the administration's knowledge, the citizens are often unaware of the prosecution's investigations, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0132par0832	The D.A.'s office is investigating him for conspiracy to tender, and he doesn't know it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0833	Here, in fact, this is a requirement for bringing transparency into tenders, to increase participation in tenders, to make a more decent tender in tenders, so that more people will enter the tenders, and transparency will increase, participation will increase, and when you're doing business in contracts, that's the essence of the government's goods to be sold more expensive. I want to express it here in particular. Again, I'd like to offer a few quick answers to the criticism of our dear friends. Public Housing Administration: There is no case filed against the Public Housing Authority in either eight and a half years of my term or in the days of my friends after me, there is no investigation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0133par0836	Oh, that's nice!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0837	My dear friends, our dearest friends, if they've made a mistake, they're in jail. Five years...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0133par0838	No case. Are you saying, Mr. Secretary? The ACK case isn't on trial?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0839	There is no investigation, no investigation of TOKI -- leave the case -- due to the tender.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0133par0840	Come on, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0841	Mr. Aykut, please... no. And you have to understand the bids. The state's goods have been evaluated at the highest level in Turkey with the bids. It's obvious. Here...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0133par0843	The Court said there were 770 trillion damages.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0844	Sir, where is it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0133par0845	It's in the court.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0127par0846	One of them, he's crazy -- so sorry -- wrote something, and then he was investigated. This has been examined 100 times, 100 times.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0134par0847	So if they sue you, you can't go in there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0135par0848	Is there an investigation because of what he wrote, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0136par0849	Because he wrote it! For writing the truth!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0850	Sir, there's been 100 tours of this and we've received commendations from all of them. Today, the world...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0135par0851	You got an investigation because he wrote it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0852	Friends, we're going to develop this country.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0135par0853	We're talking against you, so are you going to open up about us?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0854	Look, you help, you contribute, this country is growing, developing. It's developing, it's developing, it's growing, it's very honorable. We expect you to contribute to that, and in real business, once, the value of that land is determined by SEC-related companies. On the way to the tender, we say: "How much will you pay for this land, once? How much will it cost?" (CHP and MHP rows) Excuse me. That's what I've worked so hard to find out. Now, let me put it this way: how much is it? 50,000 liras. How much do you pay for our land? 80 lira, 100 lira, 150 lira. The highest bidder will also provide us with more income than the gross, 5 per cent, 10 per cent, 40 per cent, 50 per cent, whatever. The tender here is called a land sale. It's a share of the land for sale. Here, we've moved the world's most advanced technologies to Turkey, we've brought the world's most advanced concepts in Turkey, we've done it, and then we'll continue to do it. Ataşehir, Ataköy, Bahçaşehir, Eryaman, İstanbul, İzmir, Antalya, Ankara, and the property of a hundred liras. Study these and appreciate us, and we expect appreciation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0138par0857	You gave the same thing to the private contractors by 30 percent, and you gave it to the private contractors by 50 percent.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0858	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0139par0859	If Ataşehir was your father's property, would you give it to him? You went after the contractor with 30 percent.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0860	We pay a thousand times more attention than our father's property. The property of the state is virtue, and woe to those who do not preserve it as their virtue.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0140par0862	Shame on you! Amen! Amen! Why aren't you clapping?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0863	My dear friends, look, let me present: Now, where did we bid on the bids?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0140par0864	Amen. Why don't you clap?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0865	Bring me one, I'll take any punishment. Where did we get invited to share the proceeds? For God's sake, what contract did the TOKI invite? So when we're reviewing... (CHP rows) We have respect for criticism, our heads above our eyes; we have complete respect for criticism, my friends.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0141par0866	I don't want to break your heart, Mr. Secretary, but most of what you're saying isn't true, Mr. Secretary, and knowingly, you know it's not true.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0867	We talk right, we do what we do right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0141par0868	Come on, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0869	That's the discipline we get, that's the education we get. Dear friends, look, don't fight with the people -- I mean, I'm not calling the opposition, I'm calling the general public.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0142par0872	We're not fighting with anyone. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0143par0873	We're fighting with you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0874	We're doing what people say, we're doing what citizens say... it's not like someone's hiding behind sacred values and throwing rocks.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0144par0875	You're stealing from the public, you're turning over the capital.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0876	Those who throw stones hiding behind sacred values... that's what children do. We do business, we do a lot of work.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0145par0877	That's right; you're doing business! I'm afraid the shroud has no pockets.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0878	Turkey has invested $200 billion. We made these investments, and we're gonna keep doing it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0146par0879	So you're doing it out of your pocket?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0880	We love our country, we love our land 780,000 square kilometers, we love our 75 million people, our people love us. My dear friends, look, we have just brought in the Law on the Transformation of Perilous Areas. That's been mentioned here, and I'd like to give you a little answer.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0147par0882	This isn't an open bidding either.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0883	Dear friends, we don't have the money to spend on this. When we find the money, we'll pay rent to the citizen, we'll help the citizen move when we find the money, and when we find the money, we'll support the loan the citizen received when he changed his apartment as a disaster.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0148par0884	What kind of big economy are you? Mr. Secretary, don't let the Prime Minister hear what you're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0885	We support the private sector, we want the citizen to build his own house, we want him to change his own home.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0149par0886	Yeah, the company doesn't make citizens!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0887	It's not us, it's the citizens. That's the gist of it, that's the truth. Where am I gonna do it? The money in the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is a tenant's aid, a loan, a housing allowance. I've got the money.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0150par0888	There's coal relief, too.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0889	$500 billion is a consolidation, the rise of the economy. If a citizen does so, the construction industry will rise in Turkey. We've raised Turkey three times, we're going to grow another five times in the next process, so we're going to grow it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0151par0890	Mr. Secretary, hand out the companies equally, give them open bids.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0891	Look, Turkish contractors are now number 2 in the world. We will come together, with your criticism, with your contribution. In this regard, this arrangement in the Law of Contraction...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0152par0892	You're obese, obese!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0151par0893	Mr. Secretary, this is an open tender we've been critical of.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0894	Guys, look, we did it, we did it, we did it...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0152par0895	Hormones! Hormones! GMO growth!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0896	It's hard to talk to people who fall off the roof, who do business, who don't take home an elephant in their life, who just look at them and criticize them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0153par0897	Mr. Secretary, this is a violation of the Constitutional Court's decision on April 28, 2010.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0154par0898	Why don't you give me an open bid?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0899	Let the workers, and the builders, and the builders, and the producers of all kinds of industries come, and let us kiss him on the forehead, and let him kiss his hand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0155par0900	Yeah, you kiss her on the forehead, you shoot her in the stomach.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0901	We're actually working on this country, this nation for development, for development, and because the Contraction Act doesn't apply to us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0156par0902	Mr. Secretary, this is a violation of the Constitutional Court's ruling published in the Official Gazette, April 28, 2010.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0903	We'll do a new tender law of developing Turkey, developing Turkey, in accordance with the conditions of the growing Turkey, modern, controlling, protecting the citizen and protecting the public, together, we'll do it, through this Parliament, and we've made preparations for it, I hope, together...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0157par0904	Mr. Secretary, people aren't growing, the bidders are growing, the dollar billionaires are growing, it's a blessing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0905	Dear friends, you see, this Law on the Transformation of the Field Under the Disaster is essential to Turkey. We need to support this together. The private sector will do the work here. If the citizen wants his own home... we say: "Don't stay in the house. " We don't want a citizen living in a house that's at risk of an earthquake, a fire hazard, a disaster risk, a flood risk. Today, as modern countries do, let us modernize our homes, our dwellings, our settlements, as in Japan, when an earthquake happens, people make fun of the earthquake, and we should be safe when an earthquake strikes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0157par0906	Mr. Secretary, you told the people to enter your homes in Van. You said there was an earthquake, and it fell on his head! If you love God.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0907	That's why... We have given a worldwide example in Van. We have built 17,000 dwellings in ten months; we have delivered 15,000, and 2,000 will be delivered.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0157par0909	He's got a case on November 13th, you know? Do you know that two of those dead people's children have arrived? Why do you not listen to them, and listen to those who are dead, and not to those who have made the contract?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0910	Is there an example in the world, is there one in America, is there one in Japan, is there one in Russia, is there one in South Africa? It's the first job in the world. It's a virtue to appreciate it. In what ten months? We finished them with schools, health clinics, mosques, social facilities, green fields, water, electricity, and delivered them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0158par0911	They say the price of the unit is tripled, right, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0912	See, they can't make temporary housing in Haiti, Japan, America, disasters in one year, they can't give temporary housing in a year in developed countries today, we can't give permanent housing in ten months...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0159par0913	Mr. Secretary, we might as well send this Sandy storm of yours to...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0914	Check this out, guys. If you look at it, you'll see. The one that was made in Van...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0159par0915	Mr. Secretary, Obama is calling you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0916	Who does that? That's what the public does, that's what the citizens do, that's what the people do, that's what the people do, that's what the people pray for, that's what the public does. Anyone who does not receive the support of the people can't build 17,000 dwellings in ten months.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0160par0917	Why don't you go back to yours? We're calling for information, he's a eunuch!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0918	It's not in history, it's not in the world. We have done this, and We have given you knowledge and knowledge.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0161par0919	Obama needs you, Minister Obama.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0920	That's why, in the Law on Change of the Disaster Risked Areas we're going to do from now on, the same way we're going to make our cities beautiful in order to improve our political, non-political, Turkey-wide, Turkey-based...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0162par0921	Why didn't you bid openly? Answer the questions!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0922	...to increase the happiness and prosperity of our people, to increase the quality and number of construction materials in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0163par0923	Mr. Secretary, why is there no open bid? It's a very clear question.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0924	...for Turkish contractors to do more work in the world, for the development of Turkish contractors, consultants, and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0164par0925	What does that have to do with anything, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0926	...not only in business around the world anymore, but the quarterback, the consultants who make the floor lists there, the preconditions...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0165par0927	We saw it in Samsun, Minister, in Samsun. Tell me about Samsun.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0166par0928	You're such an actor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0929	My dear friends, look, Turkish contractors are number two in the world today, but we can't make as much money as we want. Why? Their tenders, Japanese firms, German firms, are drafting the terms for the tender. If we develop the Turkish construction industry, Turkish engineering, counseling, technical sector with the transformation of these disaster-threatening areas, we will now be quarterbacks in the world. It's inevitable, we'll do it, we'll do it very soon. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're already champions in construction materials in the world; we're going to export construction materials in a much more serious way. Look, friends, let these please you. Don't worry about it because we're doing it. We would appreciate it if you would.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0167par0933	Mr. Secretary, this isn't a rally square, this is the House. You sound like you're talking in a rally square.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0934	You can't do it. With criticism, people won't bring you to power. Look, you appreciate us, your vote goes up because people love us, people vote for us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0168par0936	Answer one question, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0937	Don't be jealous of it, work for it, work for it, come to power. So, are we going to do what you say, or are we going to do what people say? Don't people tell us that we voted for you, we voted for you, we voted for you 50 percent, we put you in power, you go do what the opposition says? We'll listen to you, we'll appreciate your criticism, we'll appreciate your criticism, but...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0169par0938	Well, Mr. Secretary, at least build those outposts, and we'll see something. It's people.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0939	It's not going to happen, it's going to be what we say, it's going to be what our group says, because people have given us power of attorney.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0170par0940	We're trying to turn you around wrong, and you'll answer to me in the next world.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0941	With our mentality, people will always give it to us. We've been in power for ten years, our votes are rising.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0171par0942	Success is a team effort!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0943	We'll be in power for another ten years. Our votes will rise, our income levels will increase, our happiness will increase, our prosperity will increase, and our growth will increase. We'll be an important actor in the world, a much more important actor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0172par0944	Minister, Obama needs you. He was waiting for you after Hurricane Sandy, Obama. Why don't you go to America and make it look good?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0945	Look...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0173par0946	You will be the Supreme Court, and we are trying to save you both in this world and in the next.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0947	Now, dear friends, look, these people know everything. This nation supports the government, which raised national revenue from $230 billion to $800 billion by the end of 2002, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0174par0948	Success is a team effort, look! We're really celebrating you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0949	It supports power from the world's 26th economy to the 16th economy.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0175par0950	When? That's not true!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0951	Okay, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0176par0953	He doesn't know math, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0954	Well, well, I'm telling you... no, okay, I'm telling you something material. Do you know how much we owed the IMF?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0177par0955	What was your total debt, where did it come from, you're counting on 20 billion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0956	Do you know how much we owe you? It was $23.5 billion. Are we out of debt now?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0178par0957	You'd better not be in the economy. If you get into the economy, you're screwed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0177par0958	Don't go there, don't go there. You don't know them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0959	Let's say you don't accept the others, ask an IMF. You and IMF were good, we weren't good. We'll lend money to the IMF now and we'll be fine. We'll pay the IMF.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0179par0961	Don't go into the economy.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0180par0962	Mr. President, we can't hear the Minister. Shut them up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0963	So look into what we do in health, in education, in schooling, in justice, in transportation, in public housing, in urban transformation, and appreciate us. Appreciate us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0181par0964	Mr. President says shut up, don't you mind?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0182par0965	Sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0966	Again, very dear friends, highly respected lawmakers, with this law only, see, the bans brought in by administrations...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0181par0967	Shut them up. He says to your office, does Mr. Deputy Director of the Group have that authority?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0182par0968	He has the right to shout as much as you do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0137par0969	...the ban on contracting is being imposed and the warranties are being recorded. It is only a provision in order that there may be no injustice for those who take part in the bidding without their knowledge.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0181par0970	If there is, let's do it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0182par0971	Please listen, please listen. You haven't been listening all morning, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0183par0972	Mr. President, we can't listen. It's either you or the preacher.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0973	In this regard, dear friends, the soul, the essence of the tender is untouched. I mean, I want to rephrase it with my crush...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0185par0974	Then why are you changing it, Mr. Secretary? Why are you defending it? Is this a defense meeting?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0975	Look, dear friends, investigations conducted by the D.A.'s office can be conducted in public to protect the citizen, but closed to citizens.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0186par0976	Mr. Secretary, there's only one question, do you have a ride or not? The rest of them are stories.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0977	At this time, the contractors, the contractors, they don't know about it, and they can make a tender, and it can't be his fault. In this case, when he's in the tender again, when he's heard, there's a ban again, so his tender is not accepted, just so his collateral doesn't burn unjustly, that's the bottom line, or he's not touched.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0187par0978	Why wouldn't it? Of course his collateral will burn.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0979	If there's a case against you, if there's a follow-up by the D.A., it's out again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0187par0980	Mr. Secretary, there are men here who will make a better ministry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0981	If there is a ban by the administration, the tender is excluded and the warranty is recorded. If there's a court order, it's being auctioned off, security is being saved. Only in cold cases, he may not know about it, so that the assurances of those involved don't go up again, he's out of contract, so his guarantees don't go up...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0187par0982	Why is he going into the tender? Of course their collateral will burn.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0983	...to the courts, which have been held, which have caused much controversy, which are uncertain. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] 5,000 people have gone to court, taking so many people to court, but it's a very small arrangement to bring back clarity, clarity, clarity.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0188par0986	Then why are you changing it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0189par0987	We'll move on to questions, questions. Now answer the questions we're going to ask.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0184par0988	I salute your high council. I wish for the law to be a blessing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0190par0990	Mr. Secretary, thank you, sir. Now, finally Oktay Saral, Istanbul MP. Mr. Saral, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par0994	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the entire Law Proposal for Change in Public Contraction Act 336. I hereby salute all our citizens and you, our esteemed representatives, who are watching us on the screens. I'd like to congratulate Beşiktas, as I begin my words, because the world giant Ofspor took the next tour yesterday in Istanbul with a big surprise. I, Beşiktaş, wish you success in your next match, and congratulations to Offspor, the entire community, the teacher, the technical committee, all the football players. Yes, dear friends, of course, unfortunately, this is the dandini dandini dastana, which turned into bostana. Unfortunately, look...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0192par0997	What does that mean?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0193par0998	Mr. President, what do you mean? How does he say that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par0999	Look, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0193par1000	Mr. President, what do you mean, the calf's in the bostana?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par1001	Dear friends, look, while we're here, while you're talking...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0193par1002	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par1003	Look, counselors, when you're talking, we're talking like men.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0193par1004	What do you mean, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par1005	We're talking to our literature, our manners.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0194par1006	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par1007	Every one of you comes up here, we respect it, you pass on your opinions, you pass on your thoughts...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0195par1008	What does that mean?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0191par1009	In order to demonstrate the truth about this, you offer the power some ideas. And we're going through them, through our filter...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0195par1010	What do you mean?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0196par1011	What a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0197par1012	Will you please shut up, please listen.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1013	We're trying to do whatever's right for our nation, for our country.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0199par1014	Mr. President, what do you mean?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0197par1015	Listen, please, please listen.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1016	These people see what your state of mind is.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0199par1017	He's got a calf? That's what he said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1018	You do not display in your own souls any discrepancy.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0199par1019	Mr. President, we don't know if he's got his own calf in the bost.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1020	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0199par1021	Mr. President, we don't know if it's his own calf entering the bost.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0200par1022	That's an expression, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1023	I mean, we're telling you this as a friend, as a friend.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0201par1024	How do you say that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1025	Here, my dear friend Mr. Abdulkerim Gök has done his work on the Public Contraction Act. After all, he was transferred to the Ministry, the Commission, and from there to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0202par1026	And everyone believed it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1027	Together, as civilized people, one of Turkey's 550 elected MPs, we have to act in a political manner that will come and set an example for them with our literature, morality.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0202par1028	Way to go!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0203par1029	How can the Danes say that to the bostana?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1030	Look, we've listened to you. For God's sake, did we say anything? For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0204par1031	That's what you want!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1032	For God's sake! Let's sit down and talk straight.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1033	Yeah, and don't work for the contractors!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1034	But, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1035	Work for the fucking people!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1036	Look, Mr. Vural, Mr. Vural, look, I've been mayor of the city for 12 years. I'll give you all of the MHP Group, how to make contracts, how to give them to each and every one of them during the Anasol-M administration. What's going on at the County Bank?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1037	If you don't, if you don't, if you don't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1038	Sit down, sit down...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1039	If you don't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1040	Easy, easy, don't scream, listen!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1041	If you don't give it to me, you lack honor and dignity!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1042	I have the honor, alhamdulillah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1043	What contract did you get?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1044	I have the greatest dignity.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1045	Were you on the side of the bidding or were you on the side of the giver?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1046	You measure your own dignity. Take your own dignity. The President of a Chankaya Ülkü January...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1048	Don't do that hand-to-hand thing!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1049	...investigation of drinking water.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1050	Don't move your hands!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1051	There's no tender, no bid from Ankara, and he's coming over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0205par1052	You're going after contractors, your business is capital...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1053	He doesn't have a machine, he doesn't have a shovel, he doesn't have a shovel, he's got nothing, and he tells me: "Mr. President, sir, we got this contract. How did you get it? How did you get it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0206par1054	You're going to pay for the rights of an unfinished orphan.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1055	We know very well how those 10 percent fly into the air, what they're up to, how you've made this nation moan and how you've been sent by this nation with a slap and a slap and a slap. Do you understand? Wasteful talk, futile talk.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1056	It's the bastard who doesn't prove it! I'm telling you, it's the bastard who doesn't prove it! He's the son of a bitch who doesn't bring a congressional investigation into this.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1057	Yeah, now I'll teach you honor here. Don't talk about it now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1058	You've already taught him, he's the bastard who meets with the PKK. You said, we've taught you who's honorable and who's an asshole! You left honor and dignity on the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1059	Put it on with your literature, speak with your literature, Mr. Vural, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1060	Don't do any hand-to-hand moves. Don't look here again!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1061	Anyway, let's just keep talking. I don't need to look at you, you talk to yourself. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, my dear fellow lawmakers, I'm afraid there's really no verse here, there are no verses of God. We're all human.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1064	Don't look here again!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1066	Human beings are human by their weakness, and therefore our age is growing, our world is growing, our people's love of service is growing, their expectation is too high. So every day, every day, there will always be a different kind of work on every floor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1067	You tenders are after money, you're after money...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1068	Our friend said he's changed twenty-six times. Let him change, brother. Thirty-six more times. Times are changing, conditions are changing, conditions are changing, the conditions of our people, our willing, the conditions of our work in the public institution are changing. And here we want our government, and our nation, to be quotes to the flesh, in a win-win relationship, so that everyone can win in this business.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1069	And you're moving the stuff.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1070	We know exactly what you're taking.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1072	Mr. President, win-win?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1073	You are an opposition to the conscience of the nation, buried in concrete in the heart. For him, this law, this bill of ours, will surely help our country, our contractors, all of us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0207par1075	Oh, yeah? Are you speaking for the contractors? Speak for the people.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1076	Oh, tomorrow, there's gonna be some changes, some developments, of course we're gonna sit here like people, and we're gonna talk, but please, for God's sake, that painting doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0208par1077	It's your business to change.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1078	Every one of us... the man with the grandkids is here!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0208par1079	Read the reason.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1080	I mean, it doesn't suit me, it doesn't suit me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0209par1081	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0198par1082	I say the best things, the best things.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0209par1083	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0210par1084	Turn around and say it. Turn around!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0211par1085	Don't wave like that!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0212par1086	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0213par1087	Tell your own group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0212par1088	Don't wave! Don't wave!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0214par1089	Put your hand down! You dirty bastard! Put your hand down!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0212par1090	Sit down!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0215par1091	Turn around, talk that way! Put your hand down!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0216par1092	Please, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0217par1094	He's been out there being rude for two hours.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0218par1095	Come here, come here, come here!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit01spe0216par1097	Sir, I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0216par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks on the entire Law Offer 336 rows. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, Mr. Saral, you had three more minutes. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0219par0008	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I'm just apologizing to our nation because we've given them a painting, a photograph that they don't deserve, but this National Assembly will create a Parliament, a painting, a photograph that will fit the noble position of our nation, and I sincerely wish it. Here, what we do, day and night, without saying "Saturday Sunday," is just to share the future of Turkey with our nation, to share these beauties, to make these beautiful things, and to live. We sacrifice everything for him. We also ask our opposition to give us constructive criticism. They are, of course, the candidates for power tomorrow, but if they do their opposition in the way they should be and the way they should be, forward, of course, perhaps for themselves. I hereby salute your grand delegation again, wishing that the first amendment to the First Amendment of the Public Contraction Act (a) should be good for our country, for our nation, for all concerned.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0220par0013	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0221par0014	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0220par0015	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0221par0016	Mr. President, the secretary has filed charges against a government before him, without a word, without evidence, unfairly. I want a word from this tease.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0220par0017	Here you go, sir. Mr. Vural, I'd appreciate it if you wouldn't challenge me in two minutes and again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0221par0021	Unfortunately, today we are engaged in a law proposal that deals not with Turkey's problems, but with the concerns of the tenders. We're here to discuss a law proposal to solve the problems of investors who don't have people. Now, you've been in power for ten years. And if there were among the nations before you who acted against the law, and you did not take your steps with the majority of them, then you are the ones who seek a tender contract, and you are the keepers. It's your duty to do so. Get up out of here... and get whatever you know from the Anasol-M government. If you've got the guts, you'll bring the Clave investigation, that's what you'll do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0222par0023	I've got a big heart, Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0221par0024	We came to these platforms thankfully, thankfully, gratefully, and thankfully, we are not one of those who say, "Thank you, Recep Tayyip Erdogan."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0223par0026	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0224par0027	Mr. President, the response to bullying has been unbecoming. Look, I want to think that a political party's deputy leader, Genabihakk, is completely beyond the meaning of someone's expression of gratitude in some other way.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0225par0028	It's not his statement, but it's not his.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0224par0029	No one knows who's thankful to whom or what's what. We, everyone, know that 99 percent of this country is Muslim, and everyone is thankful for God, worships him, and believes in him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0226par0030	Amenna, I have nothing to say.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0224par0031	You're thanking him here. It's not appropriate for a group of vice presidents. I'll leave the credit to you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0227par0032	Thank you, it's contained.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0226par0033	Mr. President, this statement does not belong to me. If because of this statement, the Deputy Director of the Group is concerned with his own MPs. It's not right if he thought of something. The trustee of this statement is already here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0224par0034	Mr. President, please continue.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0226par0035	He's the trustee.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0228par0036	Yes, sir. Mr. Vural, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0229par0038	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0228par0039	Mr. Saral, if I may... I promise Mr. Hamzacebi. Wait a minute, I'll give you my word. Wait a second. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0230par0041	Every day, two prayers must be performed, he says.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0228par0042	All right, sir, please calm down. Mr. Hamzacebi, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0231par0044	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Speaker has also targeted all opposition parties and made a mockery of the Republican People's Party Group. On behalf of our group, sir, I'd like to speak to Mr. Haydar Akar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0228par0045	You don't speak for your group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0232par0046	What did he say?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0228par0047	Don't tease... Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0232par0048	Mr. President, look at the transcripts, if there is such a thing... Mr. President, is there any bullying, sir? What did he say?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0233par0049	Mr. President, Mr. Oktay Vural has just asked for a statement, and the government of Anasol-D has been bullied. He said, "You promised." Now, I'm asking you, what is Anasol-D government's involvement, and why did you promise? I'm not against your promise, you did the right thing, you acted democratically. Now I'm asking for a word. The vice president of the ruling party is saying something, and you're listening to him, and I resent it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0234par0050	You're taking orders from him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0235par0051	Sir, I haven't said anything yet, Mr Hamzacebi, and I promise you two minutes, I haven't said anything yet.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0233par0052	Sir, I'll give you an alibi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0235par0053	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0233par0054	I didn't want to go into detail so I wouldn't repeat a statement that didn't suit the House. Dandini Dandini dastana has made an unbecoming statement to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, saying that the veals have entered the bostana. That's why I want word on behalf of our group, sir. Mr. Haydar Akar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0235par0055	Okay. Mr. Akar, in two minutes, without further ado, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0236par0058	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0235par0059	Okay, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0237par0061	Mr. President, a dear lawmakers, yes, a friend of ours, who's been mayor for years, a friend of ours, who's been a community member -- says he's been mayor for ten years -- has insulted all of us from the council stand, and from this grand assembly, where you and I are all present. Now, dandini dandini, dastana, veals enter the bostana. I don't want to return the word to him, but...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0238par0063	Why are you answering?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0237par0064	He should have apologized to this House when he took this stand. He hasn't tried to apologize again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0238par0065	Why are you answering?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0237par0066	Yeah, that's right, I'm answering. I'm a rational thinker, non-pathetic, non-beat culture, acting on my own reflexes, on my own free will.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0239par0068	You're being disrespectful right now, I'll feed you what you say!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0237par0069	No one has a chance to appoint my deputy. That's why you're so careful when you're talking. Actually, dear brother, you're supposed to apologize here. He's used to the Biat culture and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0239par0072	It's rude, but you talk so disrespectfully, speak properly, it's proper!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0237par0073	Yeah, well, I don't want to go any further, so I'd like to say a few words to the Minister here. Mr. Secretary, you've been asked two very innocent questions, you haven't answered from this bench. In the first question, they asked if your father's land were your tenders in Ataşehir. The second asked, "Why don't you give an open contract?" Ask the minister these questions, if you have the strength, if you have the heart.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0240par0075	I asked about that a year ago. What is the point of picking on them?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0237par0077	If it was your father's property, which you gave by 30 percent, why don't you make an open tender? Ask him, and get rid of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0241par0080	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Saral, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, before you dare to pick on me again... Please. Two minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0242par0086	Yeah. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Vural, spoke to me in a conversation I had in the youth department during my presidential term -- then of course they took it -- before they got to the truth, without learning the truth. When I was mayor, I got my youth department together, and I talked. I've told those children about the past years, the lost decades, how you've fallen from the inside of our country, especially during the reign of Anasol-M, and the problems in this world where the global crisis took place, and I thank God that such a Prime Minister has blessed us. Allah has brought forth such a man from among us, and He has been gracious to us. I said, "Happy are we that we can't thank God every day." I'm thankful that the prayer is indicative of... Mr. Vural, don't teach me my religion! Ofluya teaches religion. I will teach you (Prophet Muhammad) how to perform As-Salat (Iqamat-as-Salat) and how to perform As-Salat (Iqamat-as-Salat). How many rectals, what reading...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0243par0089	Speak properly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0244par0090	For God's sake, get over it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0242par0091	I'll teach you what rituals are, okay?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0245par0092	Dear Saral...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0242par0093	Yes, thank you. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE, MHP rows)
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0246par0094	Get out of here! Get over there, get over there and be an imam! Go be an imam on the off! Then what are you doing here, Oktay? Go be an imam on the off!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0247par0095	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0248par0096	Mr. Vural, please, this is the last time... Come in, but let's just leave it at that, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0249par0097	Mr. President, do we have to listen to this? We don't want anything, but we want to be serious.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0250par0098	You're lowering the level of the House, Mr. President, a little more to the level of Congress. You're contributing to the decline of the level. That's not possible! They're giving you a war like an Imam, is this a hut?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0248par0099	I'm contributing because of the friend's speech?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0250par0100	You contribute, you allow it. You tolerate these.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0248par0101	What can I do? Every MP is responsible for what he says. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0251par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, of course...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0248par0107	Let's hear it, guys. Let's hear it, please. Mr. Vural, I'll reboot your time, please. (whispers) Guys, let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0251par0109	The Prophet has sent only the Prophet for the message, so for the people, the prayer of prayer is for the people, and for the reason that this has come, look at the prayer of prayer, and look at the expression of their thanks. The Deputy Mufti of Tripoli says, "Yahu, who called for such a prayer of thanksgiving... "
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0252par0110	Ask Zechariah White.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0251par0111	There is no place in our religion. We are certain of our prayers. It's not the prayer of a suspicious person like yourself that counts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0253par0119	Friends, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. Now, we're moving on to 20 minutes of QA, and I'm going to make a promise to our friends who are already in the system. Mr. Yüksel? No. Mr. Scholar Light? Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0254par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, still, how many contractors have been sued for the provisions of the Public Contraction Act? How many of these will be able to receive a tender from public institutions and institutions if this offer becomes legal? Don't you feel guilty about that? SOME of the dwellings they made to the earthquake victims were then asked for additional fees through TOKI. Who's the company that's being charged for this extra fee? On what grounds, when the dwellings were delivered, even though they were not in the contract, were the earthquake victims asked for money? Do you plan to call this scandal and scandal...... or will this company continue to receive a tender from the TOKI? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0255par0127	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0256par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in 2,12,2004, there was a report prepared by the Prime Minister and the High Board of Control. And I'm talking about real estate partnerships -- they were asked to investigate, but then they were shut down by a covert investigation. Is there a follow-up investigation on this? The SEC Law was said to have caused a reduction in its assets under Article 15 of the 15th. I'm asking about real estate investment partners. They say it's closed. Would you please go public with the investigation report on this matter? One: Second, who chooses color in these TOKI dwellings? I'm coming from the airport, and somewhere I'm looking at red, blue, green... is it a special study? Otherwise, how do you make it look like a playground? Third, what are you going to do there when you get the IMK's land in Izniye, and who do you intend to give it to without bidding? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0257par0134	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0258par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, this 11th article determines who cannot participate directly in the tender. However, the clause was pronounced after it was not decided by the Courts or by the Courts. Now, this violates the Constitutional Court's decision published in the official newspaper on April 28, 2010. Because in the same way, when it was discovered that there was a lawsuit against a firm that had entered into the tender and won the tender at Tripoli, for spreading corruption into a contract, his tender was terminated and his guarantee was confiscated. In response to the court's decision, the 58, 59, and 21st agreements were issued to the Constitution... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...he filed an infraction, and this case was dismissed. Therefore, this judgment is contrary to this, and it is contrary to the Constitution.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0259par0140	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0260par0142	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I want you to answer this question on behalf of the government and the Prime Minister. Since there are allegations of corruption from the powers you've established before the governments, and you know these things, why don't you look into them, find out who's responsible, and punish them, why don't you? If you're not doing that, you're neglecting the mission. If you do not do so, you have a concern for the disclosure of your tender corruption, so it is possible to interpret it. In your reign, the Public Contraction Act is ranked number one in the most modified set of laws. From now on, the contract law is almost out. Public tender laws and provisions, the Public Contraction Agency, have become a weapon against people you don't want to tender. The court, which you now explicitly ordered with the Public Contraction Act and the Foundation, has been established only to oppress non-compulsive contractors.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0261par0145	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0262par0147	Thank you, Mr. President. Regarding the release of the tender and preliminary competence document, Article 28 of the Public Contraction Act states that the tender document is given only to those who are invited by the administration in cases of non-instruction. There is a discrepancy in the tenders on the Public Resignation website: it is open to unsolved participation. Therefore, it is a contradiction to be given to both those who are called and invited. Do your allies benefit from this contradiction? There is another important issue: The period of ads is called a day in direct procurement tenders. And it's usually seen when it's followed, so it's on the site at 11:59 a.m., so it's on the site for a minute, and it's usually on Fridays, and they're invited to the tender at 9:00 a.m. on Monday. What is the purpose here? Can't you just make it clearer and open it up to everyone without patronizing their followers? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0263par0151	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0264par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. You've changed Public Contraction Law 4734 28 times in your time of power, that's the 28th. He's no longer in public trust. People who have been prosecuted for violating the 17th Article of the Public Contraction Act will enter tenders freely after their administrative bans are over. Isn't that against the principles of credibility and transparency in Article 5 of the law, Mr. Secretary? Isn't it the sacrifice of the rule that deters theft and corruption if those who seek to obtain the tender by giving them all kinds of fraud and bribery and therefore get sued for it take temporary guarantees? While public tenders are supposed to be purged of shady people who have been involved in such matters as corruption, is that not the law, in this sense, advocating and pricing laws? Isn't that an offer to invite mobsters to work?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0263par0155	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0265par0157	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, we've just been looking for a very clear answer. Would you give it to a contractor by 30 percent if the plots in Ataşehir were inherited from your father? We want a clear answer to that question. Second: After the MPs left the post, they could not enter tenders for three years. Now you're lifting it. What former lawmakers came to you with the request? Why are you being reasonable? Third: Why do you give this right to contractors who cheat the state and commit contract fraud when the arrested MPs can't benefit from their innocence, can't participate in their legislative activities here? Do you have a clear conscience on this?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0266par0161	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Kaleli...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0267par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. Do too many companies participate in the tenders increase the transparency or the negotiation of withdrawal among the participants? Twenty-two firms received files today for the loan of the Koz Tree Valley thermal power plant, five of whom participated in the tender. One of the tender professionals was out of contract due to lack of water, such as the signing circus. The productive peasant citizen who opposed the thermal plant was questioned, why wasn't the tender questioned? Turkey has turned into a lack of manners and aesthetic understanding, who wants to open its way to the end. The same understanding, unfortunately, exists in Thailand, which destroys its nature, but civilization does not exist. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0268par0167	Thank you, Mr. Kaleli. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0269par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the Competitive Council has launched an investigation into the claim that ready-made concrete manufacturers operating in Erzincan province at 10:10.2012 have made sales through the joint company they have established, that they have increased their concrete prices by cost increases, that they have dropped in concrete quality in exchange for price hikes, and have decided to look into it. Erzincan, you know, is not part of the urban transformation project. Do you plan to do a study on it, and do you intend to do research on it in Erzincan? The second, the Agricultural and Rural Development Support Agency, in Kars. In addition to calling a company, which was banned for one year, only received 5+1 calls for this company. Why was the 6th call not expected? Is there another company that we don't know about that 5+1 call? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0270par0173	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0271par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister: The change of plans for the construction of the cement plant in the village of Ineghazi district of Bursa Nulufer was made by your Ministry, not the City of Burma. Why hasn't the City of Bursa changed its plans? Is the City of Bursa a branch of yours, or has the site of the cement factory been examined from Ankara, right in the middle of Lotus? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0272par0178	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0180	Mr. President, how many people have been sued for the public tender law of Mr. Alim Ik Beyin, our esteemed MP, and who will benefit after this arrangement? After the tender was made in Simav, the money was asked. There is a question. Now, there are about 5,000 people involved in this situation, but I don't know how many people there are who are in line with the regulation of the law, so I can do some research and introduce it to you. However, I would like to offer it again: the law will prosper after the date of its execution. It is not a matter of who will then benefit and who will not benefit; it is a hesitation to remove the hesitation in Article 11 of the article, which is a hesitation, and it is not an arrangement for any individual, to prevent the injustice of a company that has been committed by those who do not know about the investigations and the lawsuits in the investigations that have been filed and that they will later become partners or for other reasons, to prevent them from being wronged. I will do the necessary work on Simav, and I will present it to you. I'll buy it. Again, our congressman, Gürkut Bey, asked a question about an investigation into the Real Estate and was closed. I don't know anything about that. So if he asks again very clearly, Mr. Gürkut Bey, I can answer that. Because I've been president of the Real Estate for years, and I can answer him. Again, our friend raised a question about the colors of the buildings made on the way from the airport. Dear friends, more of a color study is being done by city planners and architects, and these colors are being arranged according to their information. Color work is debatable. Colors by everyone... some like white, some like green, some like red. I can't say anything very clear about the colors, but the work done by city planners, environmental planners and architects, we organized the colors there. Let me get that for you. The land in the land was mentioned. I assume there's two large plots of land assigned to the foundations there, are you saying that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0274par0188	It's not, it's not. He's on his way to you now, and you confiscated him next week. It's in the SEC Act, the IMKB...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0189	Who? He won't come to us, he won't come to us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0274par0190	He's coming, he's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0191	Sir, the ministries...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0274par0192	You must have known them before, you know Istanbul well.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0193	The ministries have no initiative, no will to get the deed. All the goods of the ministry belong to the treasure. Our purchases can only be registered in the name of the treasure. We don't have that kind of savings authority, but it can be assigned to us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0274par0194	They give it to you for commercial purposes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0195	Sir, it can be assigned to us, in the name of the treasure, we can arrange it there, we can't tender it. So we're either privatizing things called treasures, privatizing them, or giving them away to any institution, using the assigned space, the assigned person can't sell the place, there's a situation like this. I don't know if that's the kind of work that's going on with my Ministry, but I'll try to answer that if you ask me a little bit more clearly. Again, the question asked by our Mr. Halaçoglu MP is that the Constitution is also violated by the regulation of Article 11. Again, there is the Constitution's decision here. So, the person who was banned after a tender in Tripoli took his assurances to court, to be registered, waived and disbursement of his contract, the court confirmed his decision, and the court went back to the Constitution, and the Constitution confirmed the court's decision. In this direction, you make the regulation in Article 11 of the Lawful sentence, allowing such people to participate in the tender. You say it's in the form of a contract, and it's against the Constitution. If the sentence Mr. Halaçoglu stated is true, I agree, but when we look at the clause of the article on the subscribing and the saving of guarantees in Article 11 and we look at the first and second joke of Article 59, the prosecution has been prosecuted, even if the lawsuits are already tendered. Even if the contract's been made, they're still being disbursed, their tenders are being revoked. The virtue of Article 59 continues. We do not eliminate the virtue of Article 11 and Article 59. Again, this is clear in the further jokes of Article 11. But what do we have here? By saying that, we are simply preventing the registration of guarantees. Again, if any court order is issued or a restraining order is issued by the administration during this period, those who have already submitted a tender to administrations at 90-95 per cent of the time have to make a restraining order and report to the prosecution. That's the rule of the law. In this case, they are already banned from participating in tenders and their guarantees are registered. It's just an arrangement to cover the injustice of prosecutions and lawsuits carried out by public opinion, by public order, by prosecutions and by prosecutions. The provision of the 59th article continues. The same is true in the other jokes of the 11th article (a). I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0275par0199	That person could've made a tender, knowing that there was a court of law out there alone.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0200	Sir, I'd already like to say that you've already opened a court of law, if the courts are obliged to win a formality, prosecutors will have to report to the Public Contractorship and to the institution who has made this tender. When he does, the administration will have to go through it and make a restraining order. If there's a condition that requires forbidden verbs...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0275par0201	I'm talking about collateral. For him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0202	No, then the warranty won't be recorded.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0275par0203	But if he went in on purpose, shouldn't his collateral be confiscated? So he's trying to cheat you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0204	If he's guilty, if the administration already forbids it, if the collateral isn't management, then he'll record his collateral again. So let's say he's got collateral in the administration, the D.A.'s office reported it to the administration, and the administration decides in a day, and he takes credit for it, and he goes on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0276par0205	Who do you mean by management?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0206	Public institution from administration...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0276par0207	The General Manager of the Roads?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0208	All of them. When you say administration, all of the authorities, municipalities, public institutions, departments, branch offices, hospitals, health clinics, Justice Department 2734, under the Law or under the Law of 2886, or outside of these laws, are all involved in the tenders made by the public. Not just Law 2734, Law 2886, Laws made with open tenders, laws made with regulations outside these laws, contracts made by negotiation, all tenders made according to 21/b are included, there is no change being made here. I'll buy it. Mr. Türkoglu has expressed that the issue here is not an expression of our government. There was an incident where a friend of ours witnessed it at his own place, which he explained here. While he was running for mayor, he expressed to you here an incident where he was a one-on-one witness.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0277par0211	Wasn't he in your village?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0212	If you look into it, you'll see whether it's true or not. In that way...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0278par0213	Have you looked into it, Mr. Secretary? Is there, have you looked into it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0279par0214	Sir, you didn't answer my question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0215	Me, too.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0278par0216	You're the Tripoli MP, aren't you, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0217	I've been called in, and I've been forced to investigate after that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0278par0219	No, you don't know anything about that, do you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0220	Thank you. Mr. Sinan Oğan's... contract document is only given to those who are invited. It is said that on one side, the contract is open to the public. It is said that there is a minute in the sites. I don't know about that, if that's a crime, you have to report it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0280par0222	Mr. Secretary, there is such a thing, I assure you it exists.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0223	If there is, we need to report it. It's a crime to report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0280par0224	It's on the site at 23.59, 23.59, one minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0225	It's a crime, we have to report it, and we do what we have to do, if that's the case.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0280par0226	Mr. Secretary, I'm reporting to you, I'm reporting to you from here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0227	But the place, the place, the place, the date, the number...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0280par0228	We'll give you everything.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0273par0229	Give it to me, I'll look at it, and I'll give you information. You give it to me, I'll introduce it. Thank you very much. I'll try to answer the question of Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0281par0233	Minister, your time is up, and the rest...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0282par0234	Give the Minister time, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0283par0235	Give me an extension, sir, on a general request.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0282par0236	Give the Minister an extension, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0283par0237	Give him an extension, Mr. Secretary, and he'll answer the questions.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0284par0238	And when we gave you an extension, you were objecting yesterday, and I don't know what to do. Normal time's up. Yesterday, there was an appeal, and we had friends.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0285par0239	The president's right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0284par0240	So, Mr. Secretary, we turn the others into written answers. The negotiations on the proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that the proposal be passed on to the terms of those who accept... those who refuse... the amendments of the proposal are accepted. Now, according to the relevant clause of the Civil Charter, I'm going to read Article 1: CHANGED IN KAMU IHALE BLOOD ADADDE 1-4/1/2002, and the declaration of the 1st article (a) of Article 11 of Public Contraction Law 4734 (a) was added after the declaration. On the 1st article, Haydar Akar is a member of the Republican People's Party. Mr. Akar, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 10 minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0286par0251	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to make a amendment to the Public Contraction Act. The Public Contraction Act, it seems, was born of a need, born of a need so quickly that it came to the commission, and was reduced to parliament at the same speed, without too much consideration in the commission. Now, when we look at this proposal of the law, we see a one-point arrangement being made. That means it's very clear and very clear. You want an address-based proposal, an address-based change, and you want to tender a delivery to an address, it's understood, in this law. This is not the first time that the Law 4734 has been changed -- many of my friends have said it before me -- has been changed 25 times and asked to be changed for the 26th time today. To draw a conclusion from this, it seems that this law under the European Union's compliance laws has disturbed you. And you had to keep changing it because the government was an obstacle to siphoning people's money. Again, a friend of mine said we're doing this for the nation, but there are no people and no nation, only contractors who support the system today. You've gone so far that, according to the existing laws, you're constantly making changes in order to eliminate crime, and we can illustrate the third article of the Public Contraction Law. They said, "You have come to me twice as much as I have." We'll explain what you're doing one by one when it's time, and don't forget that one day we'll ask the orphans and the eaters in this country to answer. You can be strong today, you can always talk about 50 percent on this bench, but when the time comes, that account will be asked. What does the law say? Those who were temporarily or permanently prohibited from taking public tenders in accordance with these laws and other laws, were not allowed to participate in these tenders, and if they were involved in them, I mean, if they tried to deceive the state, to cheat the state, if they were identified, their guarantees would be recorded by being excluded from the tender. Now, look, I want to talk to you about how to share the right to an orphan with a change of two words with a proposal, and that's all there is to it. When the 11th and 59th amendment of the public tender law is considered together, they will be prosecuted for the tenders made under the law...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0287par0257	Excuse me... Mr. President, I've asked for the number of decisions to be passed on to your substances.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0286par0259	I can't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0287par0260	So you've gone against the rules. Take a break, figure out how to fix it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0288par0261	Mr. President, is there such a procedure? When the preacher was giving his speech...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0289par0262	But there's a wrong procedure going on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0288par0263	Mr. President, when he's giving a speech... he can make such a request after his speech is over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0290par0264	Mr. President, he can't speak because he doesn't need to be passed on. Once you give a speech, it's already in place. So...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0291par0265	Sir, we took a vote and decided there was enough to decide.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0290par0266	I asked if the decision was enough. It was said no.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0291par0267	No...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0290par0268	It's not in the records.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0291par0269	The vote has been taken, accepted. It has been said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0290par0270	Not wanted, sir, no, no.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0292par0271	He wasn't called.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0290par0272	It's not wanted, sir, if you like your God!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0293par0273	He wasn't called, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0290par0274	We did. You're saying we did!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0294par0275	It's in the reports that there's not enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0295par0276	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute, wait a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0296par0277	Mr. President, there's enough decision-making. It's over as soon as you say it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0297par0278	No, he wasn't.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0298par0279	He wasn't called, he wasn't called.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0280	Where did he say he was? He didn't vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0298par0281	He wasn't called.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0300par0282	Mr. President, the procedure has continued. If our fellow MPs have such objections, they take it to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court reviews it, they apply for this job or the Parliamentary Presidency, they evaluate it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0283	But Mr. President, it's against the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0301par0284	Now, wait a second... but Mr. Oktay told me that we want the number of decisions enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0285	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0302par0286	Between?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0301par0287	I was on the phone when I was going to vote, and I looked, and I guessed there was enough to decide... one second, sir... and I said there was enough to decide.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0288	You voted. If there's a report on the vote...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0301par0289	Wait a second... but I didn't say I was gonna call the number of decisions that were enough, right?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0290	You didn't say you'd call, I gave you the number of decisions, and you expressed them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0301par0291	Now, Mr. President, you may say you'll call the number of decisions that are sufficient, that the decision may not be enough, it may not be enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0292	Yeah, well, there's no other possibility.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0301par0293	But I looked at you during the vote, and you were on the phone. I voted that there was enough to decide, and then I said there was enough to decide, and there's nothing to do. He doesn't have to say it either, but I told him there's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0294	Mr. President, bring in the report, if you've searched for a sufficient number of decisions, if you've taken a vote...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0301par0295	I didn't call, I thought there might be, after the vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0303par0296	How do you mean without calling?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0299par0297	Mr. President, you can't say there's a vote without it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0303par0298	Did you vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0299	Mr. President, a decision means I'm going to look for enough, in fact, to warn a little bit of power, but if it's voted against, then you have nothing here as opposition.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0305par0300	Is that even a thing? Is that a warning?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0301	No, I mean, what does it mean? What is the matter with you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0305par0302	Am I a milkman here?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0303	Wait a minute. Now, this is Deputy Director of the Group. Let's finish talking to the vice president of the group, ask for word, and you can talk.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0305par0304	What does that have to do with you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0305	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0306	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0307	Mr. President, I've given you my request for a sufficient number of decisions, and you just told me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0308	Right. Right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0309	Now, I'm asking you, did you or did you not vote to make a decision in accordance with the demand for a sufficient number of decisions?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0310	I did it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0311	You did it. I say, "Show me this in the transcripts," and I'll withdraw my objection to this.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0312	No, what I'm saying, sir, is that I didn't say I was going to call the number of decisions, that's what I'm saying, but after the vote, there's enough to decide, that's what I'm saying. We can look at the records.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0313	You're saying you didn't vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0307par0314	He says he did it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0304par0315	Sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0316	You're saying you didn't vote. Mr. President, there's no need to talk so much. All I'm asking is, if there's a report, I'm not gonna say anything, I'm not gonna say anything if it's in the report. Let's take a look at the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0307par0317	Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0318	Let's take a look at the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0307par0319	Mr. President, there's no point in arguing. The 13th Amendment is open.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0306par0320	No, no, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0307par0321	Article 13 of the Civil Code states: If a serious error is alleged in votes and elections in the General Assembly, the President will open a procedure discussion and correct it by applying for a vote if necessary. If the error is discovered after the merger, the Speaker will gather the Court and decide the way to follow. Right now, before Parliamentary President closes, there's a claim made by the group's vice presidents, if you're considering such a claim, you can vote again and see if there's enough to decide. But my regret is that there is a disrespect to the Hati who is speaking on the stand right now. He could comment after the Hatibi's speech was over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0308par0323	It's all right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0307par0324	Mr. President, you can apply Article 13 of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0309par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0310par0326	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0309par0327	Mr. President, this is a matter interview. This isn't about cutting the mouth off the hacker's speech. I believe Mr. Orator would like to finish the process, which he has begun before him, in a manner of speaking.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0310par0328	Of course.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0311par0329	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0309par0330	Now I'm asking you: if you've called and voted on the number of decisions enough in this report, let's see, there is no problem, otherwise, as stated earlier, it's a mistake, pause to correct this error, apply accordingly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0312par0331	Mr. President, look, you can apply Article 13 right now, plus, after applying Article 13 you can call to see if there's a sufficient number of decisions, but I'd like to ask you to review the transcripts on whether there's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0313par0332	Yeah... we didn't ask for enough of a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0314par0333	Mr. President, if there's a record of whether or not you've called the number of decisions that are sufficient in the reports, that's fine.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0312par0334	You'll have to see if there's enough to make a decision. You'll be looking at the statement in the transcripts. See if they've asked for a sufficient number of decisions in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0314par0335	There's a statement from the president, saying there's a demand for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0312par0336	You'll be looking at the statement in the transcripts. See if they've asked for a sufficient number of decisions in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0314par0337	Mr. President has a statement.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0312par0338	Mr. Chancer, look, we're doing it wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit02spe0315par0340	Sir, if you'll excuse me, let's take five and talk. Deputy members of the group, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0315par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue negotiations with Law Proposal 336. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, we're going to continue our discussion on item 1. I promise Mr. Haydar Akar. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0316par0008	Mr. President, reset the timeline, because the integrity of the conversation has been compromised.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0317par0009	Reboot the clock, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0318par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've learned that there is no such style, no such procedure, but unfortunately, I've been interrupted and I've been interrupted by you, so I'm not talking to the television clock...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0316par0011	Start the clock, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0319par0012	We've added the time, sir. Mr. Haydar, we've added the time, so speak up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0320par0014	The pressure's taking its toll, what's this!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0321par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I repeat, this is not the way to proceed. This procedure is wrong, it's wrong to interfere; plus, it's wrong to interfere here. I have more than one right to do so.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0322par0016	By whom?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0321par0017	I don't think that's true. Which means I have to say it one more time, but you can't direct it right, and I'm very sorry, but I have to say this. Yes, my friends, when the 11th and 59th amendment of the current Public Contraction Act was considered together, those who were ordered to be prosecuted for the tenders carried out under this Law were prohibited from tenders, as well as those who were decided to open a civil suit -- according to this general arrangement. But, look, with these two magic words, what this general arrangement is about, but first, I want to talk about the person who found these two magic words, the person who prepared the proposal. We told you, the amendment to the bill is two innocent words. That's two words for the court and the court order, but when we look at the record of the congressman who made this offer, we can't help but wonder, what kind of trick is there here? Who made this offer? Who is it? He's like the Minister of National Education. What do you mean, plagiarism? It's a plagiarism in Turkish. So this person stole someone else's labor and was caught trying to walk the road and found guilty by the Ethics Board. You understand this, you've heard, that a friend of ours who prepared this proposal has been found guilty by the Ethics Board. I'm not saying this, it's not my determination, but I'm guessing their relationship with the NGO isn't so great that they're reevaluated like the Minister of Education, and this is our friend's assistant professorship title. Yes, he took another professor's presentation, his thesis, and was arrested and evaluated by the Ethics Board, and was sentenced to three years in prison. Now, it's a shame to even talk about an offer that such a friend has prepared, especially about the Public Contraction Act. It's a shame to even talk about what a friend like that has prepared... yes, a person like that thought he'd moved in and decided to do the government a favor and found these two magic words. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first, let's discuss management. In accordance with the general regulation of Article 59, which I state above, which administration, for what reason, and how dare it be decided, will allow these or these companies to participate in the tenders? So, for example, in a tender made by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, you're going to legitimize an illegal tender given to a company that's being sued for defaming a tender, as the trial continues, to save a company that you know well, which is not foreign; you know the name of the company that I won't tell you; it's been given; you're going to legitimize it in order for the administration to decide. Will you be able to justify doing so? Look, I'd like to share with you part of Constitutional Court's 2007/68 Resolution 2010/2: The motion: The court has filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court on the grounds that there has been a lawsuit filed against the Constitutional Court on the day of the tender of the plaintiffs who signed a contract as a contractor after the contract was suspended and demanded to cancel the transactions. You know, Mr. Trabzon's Court has also filed a motion against the Constitution. If, therefore, the contractor is found to have committed acts and acts forbidden in the tender process of public tenders, after the contract has been made, you know, as friends say, what if he's innocent? This is where he's proven not guilty. There is no contrary to the Constitution... to predict the annulment of the contract in question. At the same time, with the annulment of the contract, it is also envisioned that the deposit be saved and the account be purged according to general provisions. In the process of drafting a contract, the contractor's obligation aim is to ensure that certain guarantees from the contractor are met in accordance with the contract provisions. Due to illegal verbs and actions under the Public Contract Act, it is essential that the final guarantee be saved to pay for the damage or damage to the contract due to the deficiencies of the contractor whose contract has been terminated due to the deficiencies of the contract, and that the account be sealed according to the general provisions. There is no damage to the administration. What do you say? The man will be judged innocent, so he will be judged for five years by the public tender law, the courts will stand trial for seven years, he will fall from the crime, he will fall from the ban, but he will receive a rigged tender, and you will not register his income with this Law, regardless of the fact that it has received a rigged tender.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0323par0024	You went through the pages.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0321par0025	Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Since this is the current legal and constitutional situation, members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the MPs, must be persuaded in some way, and this proposal must be passed as a law, my friends. Look, how do they convince you that if the shady company and people need to be caused by this amendment, why should the MPs stay out of it? The reason for the proposal is that you have agreed to the following: "The law of the MPs who are unable to enter public tenders under the provisions of things that do not connect with Turkey's Grand National Assembly, number 3069." Come on, you're all happy. Good luck with your new business. With this law, lawmakers who have nothing to do with it will be blamed and questioned wherever they go. Some lawmakers will fill their cubes under this law, and the lawmakers who are here to solve the problems of the people will face great challenges and will face unjust accusations. Only the MPs? With this law, there will be no harm in the public tenders, as long as there is a decision made by the Law on Public Affairs Number 2531, as well as some of the relevant Articles of the Law on Municipalitys No. 5393. Mr. President, there are 550 MPs here. With the legalisation of this proposal and an executive decision by the Turkish Grand National Assembly's presidency, you will no longer seek out contractors for public business. In particular, more than half of the ruling MPs will be interested. A friend of mine told me from this stand that the best thing you did was Aghaoglu. It seems that one Aghaoglu wasn't enough. It's not enough that you're competing to create the children of Agha. With this change, you're going to bring the poor's money into the hands of the poor, and you're going to reward the tenders by scamming the state, and you're going to make sure that the members of the Turkish National Assembly and the people who do public service are trapped. I think you'll vote against this change with us, listening to the voice of your conscience, all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0324par0031	Thank you, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0325par0032	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0324par0033	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0325par0034	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, when I wasn't in there, he made some claim about me that was inappropriate and unsubstantiated.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0326par0035	I haven't been there, Melih Lover wrote in the newspaper.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0325par0036	I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0327par0037	Thank you. Please explain every two minutes. And without even trying to pick on me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0328par0038	Mr. President, we've just had a recess. We took a break for a reason.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0327par0039	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0328par0040	You haven't made any statement about it. I thought a Mr. Haydar Akar would finish his speech, and then you'd make a statement.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0327par0041	We'll have our friend explain later, sir, if you'll excuse us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0328par0042	I believe he has an obligation to make a statement to the General Assembly on this matter.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0327par0043	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0329par0047	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I have always been careful and will continue to carry an academic identity. If he has no words to say, let him have his mark, and let him have the best example of how those who act on his philosophy, from the citizens, from the people of the country, from the people of his people, from the people of his people, from the people of his people. First of all, let me make this clear. Second of all, if there's a law in a law proposal that's not right to slander people by slandering certain concepts, you make a statement. Third, I'm an assistant professor. Here we can see how clueless this fellow is and how illustrating he is.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0330par0050	For God's sake...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0329par0051	Let me just say, I've never broken my manners again, and I'll never, in any way, tease any of my friends, but here, if you're claiming anything, you'll show up. As products of the February 28th process, we may have faced all sorts of allegations at universities at some point. I've got a lot of friends left, so I've stayed. The court's results are obvious, which is why the courts have already given the necessary answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0331par0055	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0332par0057	Those who don't have words to say... think I'm accusing them. I didn't accuse him, I want to explain it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0333par0059	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0331par0060	Mr. Sky, just a moment... Mr. Akar, you accused, you said...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0062	Sir, this is my...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0331par0063	He's on the books, one second, he's on the books. You said: "Here, he has entered the assistant professorship, he has been corrupted, he has been punished." He says, "There is no such thing." Now, what did he say about you in his defense?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0065	He said without knowing, he said without knowing, I will not write it down. I'll try to say I'm knowledgeable.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0331par0066	Okay, in a minute, will you please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0067	Just a minute, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0331par0069	Just a second... please don't interfere.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0071	Yeah, I get it, guys. I said it was written and claimed by Melih Lover. If you'd like me to read it, and tell me from this stand if you've received a three-year ban on this matter, I'll consider it inadvertent. Tell me, did you or did you not receive a restraining order? Just say one thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0335par0072	The courts have given the necessary answer.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0331par0073	Mr. Akar, please, what you've been told...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0074	Look, my friend, my dear friend, did you or did you not get a restraining order on this matter?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0335par0075	The courts have given the necessary answer. If you're a judge or a prosecutor, I don't know.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0076	No, Judge, I'm not a prosecutor. There's a claim on you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0335par0077	You will behave yourselves, and you will not defame people!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0078	I'm not scribbled.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0336par0079	Dear Sky... please... let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0080	There's a claim against you. Guys, I'm just saying, it's very simple.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0337par0083	Stop it, you're slandering me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0338par0084	Friends, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0085	I beg you very much. I'm simply asking, did you or did you not get three years for this claim?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0337par0086	You're slandering me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0334par0087	Have you or have you not been banned by the Ethics Board? Tell me that! That's it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0339par0089	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Dear friends, we said we'd bring in the transcripts for the break just now. Something happened: Mr. Vural, the deputy director of the MHP Group, came to me before the speech of our friends was finished, and he said, "I'm going to ask for enough." So I said, OK. He's gone. After that, the decision is at the end of the talks when it is necessary to ask for the sufficient number of decisions, and I will clearly ask for them. He didn't want enough to get up and decide again. I looked, and he was on the phone. But when the speeches were over, I announced that the talks were over and that I would vote. There's one here, too. We voted. The majority voted here, voted favourably, and I submit the proposal clauses to your votes. I said, "Those who agree after saying it... those who don't... accept the terms of the proposal are accepted." Now, I'm going to start reading the 1st article, according to the relevant clause of the Civil Code. That's what I'm doing, and I think the process is correct.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0340par0091	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0339par0092	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0340par0093	Now, sir, first of all, I find it extremely wrong for a speaker to speak on the stand, while I come to the fourth, fifth minute of his speech, to stand up and claim a point and interrupt the Hatibin. That's not true.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0341par0094	You always do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0342par0095	You guys do this all the time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0343par0096	That's not what he's saying, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0344par0097	The president understands.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0343par0098	Guys, just a second. He's talking about the conversation before, please. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0345par0101	The president understands, if you listen to the president, you'll understand. Since you're not listening...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0343par0102	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0345par0103	Now, I don't think that's true. I'll tell you what, in response to the friends who spoke to me, can you give me an example of when I stood up and interrupted the word of a friend who was talking to me, which one of our friends cut it off?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0346par0105	Mr. Vural says you've joined him. You supported Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0343par0106	Friends, please... please let's hear it. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0347par0108	That's the first one. Secondly, Mr. President, you said: "I have searched for the number of decisions enough." You said that Mr. Vural object.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0348par0110	He didn't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0111	No, I did. I didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0350par0112	You said there was. You said there was.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0351par0113	Sir, just a second... let me finish, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0114	On the contrary, Mr. President, I didn't say I'd look for enough. I said, "On the contrary, I didn't."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0351par0115	If you'll excuse me... in your statement before the session is adjourned...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0352par0116	Mr. President, let's discuss the procedure. Let's talk, sir. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0117	Wait a second... Yes, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0353par0119	Mr. President, such disrespect is unacceptable. Take out a group of vice presidents, his point of view...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0354par0120	Mr. President, the group's vice president can't speak whenever he wants; according to Article 63, he can open or discuss procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0121	Now perhaps he'll propose it, Mr. Elitaş, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0355par0123	Mr. President, I'm starting a formal discussion about your attitude, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0124	You're starting a formal debate. Okay.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0355par0125	Against you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0126	Against Mr. Hamzacebi...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0356par0127	In the end...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0128	In favor of Mr. Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0357par0129	Against you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0130	Against Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0358par0131	In the end...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0349par0132	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0359par0135	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'm sorry to see the ruling party members from where I sit who can't stand a minute of a sentence while I'm standing and standing. Group vice presidents always stand up, come to the stand, demand word, I believe that. This is not important to me, whether there is a place or not in the Civil Charter. Besides, the group's vice presidents always stand up and make a statement. It's in the legislature, it's in the tradition, it's always there. I, the Republican People's Party Deputy Chairman, have never objected to the demands of the ruling party group's deputy presidents. He has a basis in the Civil Code, no; no matter what, the group's vice president talks when he needs to talk about something. I see there's an understanding that can't even tolerate a minute of my conversation, and I'm sorry. Dear friends, the point is, Mr. President had said if he had said before the hearing, "You didn't ask me for the number of decisions, so I didn't call." It's okay. But Mr. President said: "Yes, you've asked for a sufficient number of decisions, you've been found." I didn't say I looked at it like this, there's enough to decide," but you made an assessment. Now you're saying something different, Mr. President. We wish that the Council of Parliament, the President sitting there, would be a credible, reliable person. Since you have said this, do as you must, or now tell us: I have just made an explanation, but this explanation is wrong, and I apologize; this is the case. I mean, which one's true? Which one do we believe in, Mr. President? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0360par0138	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0361par0140	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. While the Minister was speaking here earlier, our friend, Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Party, stepped into the earlier frame, which I'm guessing is the sixth minute of Hatibin's speech, or the fourth minute of the week. I object, Mr. President, first the Hatibe must be treated with kindness. Why should he be treated with kindness? He started talking on the stand. I said, "No matter who's on the stand, it's not going to stop." And I'm sorry to say, "Hatibe has been asked a question, and Hatip has said it's true." And now I find it wrong for the Deputy Director of the Group to break it down." I am the Deputy Chairman of the People's Party of the Republic, and the Speaker of this Republican People's Party is obliged to obey the Civil Code, and the members of the group, who are not obliged to comply with the Civil Code, as if they would do everything themselves, in violation of the rules and regulations. The Deputy Director of the Group, if he has that kind of understanding, has given every speaker here the right to stop talking. That would be disrespectful to our congressman friends. As the Republican People's Party Speaker was speaking here, I was the first to object to Mr. Group Vice President getting up and interrupting. We said, "Let's continue, let's end, let's discuss it." But I'm afraid my defense of a righteous issue has now come to a different point. Two: if there's a matter of asking for a sufficient number of decisions... the president has heard about it. I'm going to ask for a sufficient number of decisions. He said he didn't want to, and he's on the phone at the time of the vote, according to Mr. President's statement, and the president looked at it, because there are enough majority in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, he said. I mean, there's no point in prolonging it. Mr. President's application is correct, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0362par0145	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Kaplan, I'm not...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0363par0147	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this is the stand of the nation, not any of you, and it is an insult to the nation to interrupt half the speaker's speech here, and it is an insult to the will of the nation. The members of the group who will take care of this, whoever they are, Mr. President will take care of it. And the President shouldn't have allowed it. Is that an approach? You take down the speaker on the stand, then you go in the back, you come in, you act like nothing happened. That's the wrong approach. That's one. Second, live broadcast. Why is this ruling party afraid of live coverage? Look, it was seven o'clock, and the live broadcast ended, and the speaker here left his speech unfinished and went off the air.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0364par0149	The ruling party didn't stop you, so watch your mouth, you're on the wrong track. The ruling party didn't stop the preacher, the opposition interrupted the opposition, you don't know it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0363par0150	This is the result of your fear of opposition. If you draw this from 7 to 24, you better get some courage. Another thing, I'll tell you something else, look, once you get this straight in your head, you don't know why you're making this law. When you hand over the power plants in Akkuyu, do you investigate the case of those foreign companies? Which of the foreign companies are you investigating? The government's property is the sea, of course. Look, let me tell you something: And the poor land giveth away all that it hath, and all that it hath. Her body, her life, her hope, her dream, And all his life (i.e. Allah's Word, the Quran, the Quran, the Quran, the Quran, the Quran, and Prophet Muhammad Peace be upon Swallow it, don't think it, don't think it, don't think it. He said, "Tevfik Fikret and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0365par0157	He's talking to you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0363par0158	...on the day of our 51st hunger, we protest this evening's act of irresponsible behavior while people go to their deaths on the strike, and as the Party of Peace and Democracy, we leave you alone. And whatever you do in private with your bidding laws. Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. In favor, Mr. Recep Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0366par0162	Yeah, no live coverage, you're out of here! You're showing off!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0363par0163	I'll do it on the air, I'll do it on the air, I'll do it on the news, I'll do it all the time, I'll always get what I want in the media, I'll get even better from your Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0367par0164	There's a preacher on the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0368par0165	Mr. Kaplan, let's calm down, please. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0369par0167	Mr. President, I have made a promise in favor of the President's position in the previous application. I salute you all. In the previous incident, the deputy chairman of the MHP Group is on the stand as the talks continue, and he goes to the president, and he hears a decision in a little while. He says, "I want it." He says, "I want it." He doesn't say, "I want it. I want it." He says, "I want it." And when the speeches are over, Mr. President is looking, and the Deputy Director of the Group is on the phone, and three minutes later, he's talking all the way to the end. After three minutes, he takes the word, and I asked for the number of decisions, and I don't know why you didn't pay attention to it... but I asked Mr. Haydar why he was interrupting you. Look, Haydar Bey said, "I'll accept it, I'll cut it off."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0370par0169	I didn't say that! Don't lie on the stand! Let go! I didn't say that. Let's get the reports.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0369par0170	You said it here, the reports are there. Look here, there are two clerks, one president, not enough to make a proper decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0370par0171	The president can't handle it, and I'm gonna handle it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0369par0172	The clerks didn't even hear it. He's in the president's ear and he's saying it. Is there such a procedure? No.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0370par0173	My dear brother, the President can't handle it, and I can't?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0369par0174	After the speech was over, whoever demanded the sufficient number of decisions... the President looked at the vote and saw the necessary majority. And there is a sufficient number of decisions. It is considered a sufficient number of decisions in which the decision is accepted, whether it is said or not.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0371par0175	I said it. I said it. I said it. You said it, it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0369par0176	There is no demand in any of the reports for a sufficient number of decisions, and we demand a sufficient number of decisions. There is no one who says: It is voted, accepted, and the decision is considered to exist within the sufficient number of decisions. Therefore, the President's attitude is correct, and I declare that we are in favor. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0372par0179	Thank you. Dear friends, we've also reviewed the records here. One decision at the end of the speeches is not enough to demand. He told me earlier that he would ask for a sufficient number of decisions, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, that's true, but at the time the talks were going on. After the talks are over, our procedure, as you know, is to complete the talks. After the vote, the group may ask for the number of MPs or any member of parliament to decide. There's no such demand, and there's no record of it. Therefore, I feel that our attitude is correct, and we will continue to discuss Article 1. [[Continue]] Second speaker in article one, Hasip Kaplan... no. On behalf of his subjects, Oya Eronat, Diyarbakır MP. Here you go, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0373par0190	Mr. President, I have taken a personal oath on the 1st Amendment to Public Contract Act 336. I salute your high council. Now, I've drawn up some speech papers and stuff, but since I agree with some of the criticisms of the people who are on the stand here, I'd like to explain this with examples because I agree with the idea that we can't tell the subject or understand it well. Now, some of the friends who have come out have suggested that the 59th article will be changed, and those who are tried with the public trial will enter tenders, and they will receive tenders, and bids will be evaluated. Now, once in a while, there will be absolutely no change in Article 59. The change that we want to make here is only suspended, or, rather, those who are banned from participating in public tenders temporarily or permanently, according to the provisions of Article 11 (a) of Article 4734, which is not clearly understood. (ÇT/TK) We're here only to abide by the decree of conduct or court. Now, why are we doing this? Now, in the current sentence, the ban was meant to be a ban on administrations and a ban on courts. Now, they're both okay... what were they doing here? Proposals have been excluded, temporary guarantees have been saved -- banning from tenders not more than a year or more than two -- from administrations to participants. But there was a mix-up here: People who have been brought to trial cannot enter the tenders, it says. But there is no result of the 59th article, so they are being tried, they can also be punished, they can get a fine, they can get a fine for not taking tenders, or they can get an acquittal. But the decision on Article 59 is this: They will not be able to enter public tenders. They can't get in anyway, but since they're banned, their bids are excluded. It's already in the 59th article, so he won't be able to make the tender, even if it's not banned. However, there was injustice in saving the income of temporary guarantees. Let me give you an example: Now, in Article 59, a long preliminary investigation is being conducted before the trial of the public. Since this preliminary investigation was conducted in secrecy, neither the participants nor the tender office is aware of it. But let's say you're in for a $10 million bid. And it's not cheap to bid, it's expensive. You're doing this expense, and you're depositing $300,000 as collateral, as collateral for $10 million. There's a secret investigation against you, and you don't know it. Then you give your file to the tender office, and let's just say there's a tender in two or three days from now. On the morning of the tender, it falls into an electronic environment where a public case is being filed on Article 59. Now, on Article 59, when it is seen that the public case is being filed, the offer is legally excluded from the tender. We've never changed that law here, the offer will still be excluded from the tender. But think about it: you've entered the tender, you've deposited your $300,000, you haven't entered the tender, there's still the process, and on the morning of the tender, you've learned that you've been sued, and you've been excluded from the tender, but your $300,000 is recorded as income, so no conscience should accept it. What we're doing here is we're just dealing with this injustice. Or those who are judged by Article 59 will not be able to enter the tenders again, and their bids will be excluded from the tender. It's just a study on whether or not they're going to suffer financial losses due to the case later learned. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0374par0195	How many are they?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0373par0196	No one will take advantage of it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0375par0197	Thank you, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0374par0199	Is there a lot? One percent?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0373par0200	No one's gonna take advantage of it, it really is.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0375par0201	Now, on behalf of his subjects, the second speaker is Fatih Han Ünal, MP of the Army. Mr. Ünal, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0376par0204	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers today, yes, the matter we're trying to talk about, the subject we're trying to deal with from time to time, the two-word change in a clause of the Public Contraction Act, a clause of the Public Contraction Act. This law, my friends, came out in 2002; in January 2002, this law was passed, but in Turkey, a dynamic process, there was a need for changes in relevant materials due to the need. These needs, of course, as the ruling party, as rulers of this country, as a party that has been given the right of representation by the nation, are going to make changes, but these changes have been very few, and the good things have been said at times: if so, sir, let them prepare a more comprehensive law, let them come. But can you look at the events we've been going through here because we're going to change two words? There's nothing personal about it... it's a lot of money to be insulted. Now, my friends, our respect... in fact, the advice we've been given -- we're the new MP this semester -- we're trying to keep our patience to the fullest, but there are limits to that. When you personalize it, when you take away the right to speak to the person here... because it doesn't get heard; and when you yell from there, I can't hear the Minister's speech from here, but if you say two words to a speaker here, sir, look, you're blocking the speech. You're making references like that. Dear friends, we've listened to other groups of the opposition here, but -- as you can see, we can't listen to the ruling party. Yeah, well, let's do something about it. Give us a positive contribution to this work, and we'll be happy to take it upon ourselves. Look, our friend's pretty good. The first item was already relevant. The subject of change in Article 11 (a) in this regard is the 11th, 17th, 58th, and 59th article, and this is the 11th article, which we propose to add a word, which is about the scope of the Prohibition Law. Article 17 explains forbidden verbs and actions during the tender. When you come to Article 58, it describes the criminal action required by the tendering authority on the basis of the 17th article, and it can be appreciated from one year to two years. By the time we get to Article 59, there will be a civil suit, and due to this case, he can impose additional sanctions on the executive sentence issued in Article 58, plus one to three years, so he can also do tender bans. In fact, when you look at it, there are very serious sanctions about contractors, the willing, and there are more details because they're forbidden, and they're not allowed to enter the tender again, in any way. Look, the arrangement that we're going to bring doesn't give them any opportunity, it doesn't give them any privileges, we're just saying that there are two elements -- because the process is short -- the first one is that it's invisible, it's unlikely to be seen on the list, it's certain in Article 58 and 59, and those who can't take part in the tenders because of the special laws that aren't on the list can't see this list, so there's a problem with both the willing and the tendering. The second is -- it's just been expressed, it's been explained -- the 59th article is being sued, and while this case is going on, the person is willing, again forbidden, but in response to the possibility of acquitting temporary guarantees because of this ban, we say, let's stop this injustice. So it doesn't mean to do this state any good. We're here to protect everyone's rights. So there was an injustice, and we passed on our request to make it right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0377par0208	Thank you, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0376par0209	I thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0377par0211	Congressmans, we're going to question and answer the matter for ten minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Lightning... No, sir? Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0378par0215	Mr. President, our Ankara district of Bala is 64km away from Ankara. Four years ago, there was an earthquake in the town of Afşar, about 750 dwellings still haven't been delivered. Recently, some houses were delivered to the residents of Afşar district, but they couldn't get a municipality of residence, so there was no electricity. There's a very serious vicious cycle going on. Those who enter the collapsed homes are now threatened by the destruction of the houses. There's been an earthquake problem that hasn't been solved right under Ankara's nose for four years. Mr. Secretary, I specifically ask that you take care of this matter and that this matter be resolved immediately, and that this issue of the town of Afşar be removed from the agenda as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0377par0216	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0379par0218	Mr. President, thank you. In his speech earlier, Mr. Secretary stated that the budget has reached $900 billion on the stand. If you have this money, you know what the authorities have said is that before the holidays, 250+250 aid will be paid to the widows and orphans. Why do you want to pay for these traffic tickets? You say our current budget is very good. We have a saying. I don't know who taught you how to run a country with traffic tickets, but those who pay the fine curses. Instead of speeding in major cities and small counties and cities I've been in, there's radar apps going on, and we don't understand that. Do you, as a government, intend to give up the trap radar apps? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0380par0221	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0381par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the public tender area needs to be cleared of shady people who are involved in such matters as defamation of the tender. In this sense, we believe this proposal has become a bill to promote fraud and give bonuses. Isn't that an offer to invite mob bosses to work? How many companies will benefit from this law? How many firms have been registered today for the Treasury? What is the total cost of the temporary assurances the Treasury will give back on the acceptance of this matter? Does the Fernas company, which has been receiving service on the Boron, have temporary guarantees to be recorded for tampering with the tender? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0382par0226	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0383par0228	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I just asked two questions, time was short, you couldn't answer, I want an answer. Erzincan did not enter the urban transformation project after what was given to the concrete companies in Erzincan to investigate. Now, are you going to do any serious research on this? Because it's said that the quality is low and that it's overpriced. Let's skip the price, and there are reports that the samples that were taken were particularly low and that they were forged. Will you be working on that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0384par0231	Thank you, Mr. Light. There's no further demands. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0385par0234	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs have asked for information on the surrender of earthquake dwellings in the Bala district of Afsar, our dear congressman, our friend, said there is a vicious cycle going on here. I don't know anything about it, so I'm going to look into it and give them some information. I'll buy it. What Mr. Ozkan puts forth is that you pay with the money cut out of these traffic tickets, you pay for help, and there's some radar traps, and that's still not going to happen in the state, in the law, but I'm going to look into it, and I'm going to present it again. I'll buy it. Again, according to the Public Contraction Act of Mr. Acar..
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0386par0237	We can't hear you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0385par0238	Okay. Sir, Mr. Özkan, you're paying aid or salary for the money you collected from our fellow MP Özkan's traffic tickets, and those who are wrongfully punished for the money you've been collecting here are being condemned. That's not going to happen in the government, that's not an unfair procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0387par0240	Mr. Prime Minister has explained, Mr. Secretary, our Prime Minister has told us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0385par0241	I swear to God, I will re-examine the matter and present it to Mr. Ozkan Bey again. According to our fellow Acar MP's Law on Public Contraction, there will be more corrupters involved in the tender, and how many will benefit from this new arrangement? He asked about the company Fernas again. Now, something like this, dear friends, this arrangement is an advanced arrangement. I want to express it specifically, so the law is very clear on the rules of conduct and execution. The following arrangement is a very permanent matter for whom to benefit. There's no way to detect it, but it's still very well expressed by me -- our friends in lawmakers -- to say so, dear friends of ours -- that in the tenders that have already been made by administrations, the promise, threat, influence, benefit, agreements, irretribution, bribery, or other attempts to commit or attempt to commit such things, it requires that the prosecutor forbids or forbids access to participate, prevents or encourage the participants to offer an agreement or to make a deal, or to influence, to influence, to enforce their decisions, to enforce, and to ban the prosecution, and to ban the prosecution. Criminal prosecution and criminal prosecution by prosecutors on this minor are already not within the scope of Article 59. Again, our dear friends here, our dear friends here, and our dear friends from CHP, our friends from the CHP, spoke of the Constitutional Court's decision, rightly and rightly. The Constitutional Court's decision confirms and determines the rightness of Article 59 of the Public Contraction Act. Now, with the Constitutional Court's decision in the open, so clear, so clear, there's no way to do anything else against that law. No one can do that, not in the state of law, not in another country. In this regard, the virtue of Article 59 is clear. That's why he's wanted by this law, so he knows he can't get the tender when he's being sued by the prosecution, who's obviously going to be banned, who's going to be banned, who's already being sued by the D.A.'s office. This process is not a process of receiving the tender, it is not a process of public damage; it has not yet been finalized. If the tender was finalized, the tender would remain in the person who was prosecuted for it, and then it would be excluded from the tender, which would make it pay for its expenses. It's just that they don't have collateral to prevent the injustices that are happening here, and that's all there is to it. Otherwise, according to Article 11 or Article 17 or Article 58 or 59, those who commit illegal verbs cannot participate in the tender, and those who are banned by the administration or by the court are also registered in revenues, which are registered. It's obvious. I've explained that one more time. Again, in Erzincan, which our friend, Erzincan, represents, we're going to make an urban transformation, we're going to continue our work. But I'm going to go back to researching things that have been done here before, like low quality, and I don't know about that. I'll answer Mr. Light. Urban transformation, we're in Turkey... and I'd like to present the urban transformation, dear friends, to the great Parliament. First of all, we're showing this from prepared municipalities, no political differences. We don't have any political parties in the practices that we've done so far... no matter what municipalities there are in the group, when we take a step towards it, we take three steps. That's what we're going to do from now on, we're going to continue on voluntary basis with prepared municipalities and willing citizens. But no, let's say that Erzincan has a 21 percent case against him, and we'll leave it for later. But if there's a loss of life -- our next main axis, the spirit of the law, is to ensure the safety of lives -- our people's right to live, if there's a building that can't stand, it's bound to be sealed, power, watered down by the current law, but it didn't work out before the Law of 6785 came out.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0388par0247	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0385par0248	Mr. President, give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0388par0249	Here you go, sir, wrap it up, please. Dear friends, this is Turkey's issue of eighty-nine years. This is Turkey's pre-Republic issue. Now that we've all done this together, I hope we'll make it work together. Again, I'd like to bring you up to speed. One of them is in Kütahya... is our Kütahian friend here? It's not. Don't let me answer that. However, I would like to bring up a very important issue concerning Ataşehir. Dear friends, look, the plots in Ataşehir have been sold for $50 million before we came to power. Five million square meters of land sold for 50 million dollars. We, in fact, went as a poorhouse, we complained to the prosecutors, we filed a complaint against the other side with that case, and we stopped the tender, and the state got four quadrillion dollars from there, and I'll tell you by the old number, they made $4 billion in new numbers. The criteria in the tenders for the land we're selling there are, specifically, I want to propose, the great Parliament, so that my great fellow congressmen know this again: We are here to determine the price, the value of the land we're going to go to, and we're going to sell the land by SEC. In a clear tender, we say that this land is worth at least 100,000 liras. How much will you give us in return for this land? He says: I'll give you 100 lira, 150 lira, 200 lira. We say to him who gives us 200 liras, how much will you collect from the sale of this land? He says: I'll raise 400 lira. After that, we say: If you collect over $400, what will you give us extra? He says: I'll give you 10 percent, I'll give you 20 percent, I'll give you 30 percent. Later, while selling the apartments, the prices of the apartments he sold go into the public account. The more we build it, the more we let it go, the more money we give it. I mean, this system, my dear friends, we all need to use it together, and we need to understand, that's the bottom line. Are we... If it was my father's land, would I give it to 30 percent? If my land is worth $50, my land is worth the most to the land of the state, 50 lira land, I'm giving it to whoever's paying the most. After that, his rate isn't that big of a deal. I want to express this in particular, I want to present it. The tenders are purely open tenders. They mentioned a contractor friend here again. Let that contractor find out which political party, which political party he supports, which MPs at the political party, which deputies he sits with every night and works against us, that citizen, that contractor. To him, dear friends... Thank you, Minister, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0389par0256	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0388par0257	Thank you. Congressmans, there are three motions on the matter. I'm going to read these proposals in the same context and then I'm going to process them together. If they make demands, I'll make a separate commitment or have them read their alibis. Now, I'm going to read the motions of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the first article of the 336-level Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 336 rows of law offering 1. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the proposal text. Abdullah Levent Tüzzel Hasip Kaplan Erol Dora Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 336 Orders of Law Proposal 1. We demand that the clause be removed from the Proposal Text. Ali Longırmak Lütfü Türkkan Alim Işım Mr. Commission, do you agree with the last reading motion? We don't agree, sir. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0390par0279	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0388par0280	Let's get motive, no questioners here, no motions here. Read the reason, please. This arrangement aims to enforce a special law against the person and to address the violation of the Constitution. Moving on, sir. Read the reason for the other motion. The change and public tenders were intended to be divided by their own allies of power and to eliminate any opposition from the tenders. Mr. Hamzacebi, are you going to speak or are you going to reason?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0391par0289	No, we want roll call, sir. Let it be read.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0388par0290	Motive?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0391par0291	Let the reason be read. The problem is that people who face civil lawsuits do not know their personal status because they are not released from the official newspaper and institution website, or that the tender administrations do not know the situation; (a) The institution can be filled with the configuration of its website, (b) This will be resolved by measures taken by the administration, (c) The change in law enforcement will result in loss in areas that cannot be compensated for, such as time, resources, state trust, (d) It is important, such as the tender, and is supported by the short, self-altering legislation of the area where the average $60-70 billion per year is spent, (e) As far as possible, this area should be cleared of shady people who have been involved in such matters as defamation of the tender, It must be evaluated. The offer of the law in that sense is not of good faith. It will bring with it many problems in practice. Corruption will lead to fraud, deceit, corruption in the tender, and increased threats.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0392par0301	Congressmans, I'm going to submit the same motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0391par0304	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0392par0305	They asked for a roll call, so let's get the names, please. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Akar, Mr. Tezcan, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Sarıbaş, Mr. Gök, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Acar, Mr. Acar, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Light, Mr. Değirmedereli, Mr. Silver, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Aksunger, Mr. Gorkulu, Mr. Logogogogogoğlu. Now, we're gonna do a roll call with the electronics. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Here you go. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. [[Continue]] I submit to your votes three motions of the same nature: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. Now, I'm going to read the 2nd article: MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles Sakine Öz, Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Oz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0393par0324	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd Amendment to Public Contracts Act 336, and I salute you all. The summary of this law, which has changed between 25 and 55 -- which has been indecisive -- in the last 10 years -- is that areas at risk of disaster, such as selling property to foreigners in the past legislature, are runt-oriented. It's obviously very important to him as well as the AKP. How do we manage the purpose? The proposal, which served the purpose, went through the commission so quickly, such as all the specific laws for the individual, that the deputy who proposed it left the hall without any defense, after reading the reason for this offer, perhaps even he himself did not think it was possible. We have a finger account, we have a numerical majority. He thought, and it happened as he thought. With the fingers raised in the commission, quickly, and without even a 48-hour period of arrival, without the need to go beyond the rules of the House Court, with no ministry officials to be present in the process of meeting the commissions, they were asked to raise their hand directly, cross it and, of course, pass. Article 2 of the proposal is in effect and the first clause of the first law, which is carried out, is really important to the AKP, as is the meaning of Article 3 of the proposal. Dear lawmakers, under this offer, who do you want to call my servant? Who do I want to save? I mean, who do I want to give new tenders to? We don't know any of this yet, and how many people are going to be able to bid on it? We want to learn them as opposition. Just yesterday it was written in the papers that the contractor of the Love Apartment, which was the grave to 30 people in the Van earthquake, would be able to get new jobs by this law. According to experts' reports, there are uncertainty about the plan and the project, which is used by the contractor who built the Love Apartment. Today, the same person entered the tender for the student lunch due to the school transport system, and at the lowest cost, at a price under the price calculated by the Public Contraction Act. How are you going to pay that price for him? Did you do your math? He needed to be questioned. Dear MPs, of course, this person won't say: I'll cut down on the materials, like when I'm building, I'll put inferior material in the food. He'll get an explanation. He'll get the contract. That's it, and how many unconfirmed people like this are going to get new contracts like this? This change in the law is so important to the AKP that the commission has even upset its regulations. The day after the proposal was handed over to the members of the Commission, he had the desire to pass the proposal without even knowing that even the MP had proposed it to him and not just to read the reason, or even to speak on it. Dear lawmakers, there are other inconsistencies in the content of the bill. There has been no joint decision between the parliament member who bid on the commission and the ministry officials, who have been quickly authorized by us as opposition MP, on the basis of our insistence on the implementation of the Parliamentary Council. When I say, "No, it's not, it's just the people and the officials of the ministry who are being sued and the people who are being tendered without knowingly, let them not burn their guarantees, and if they don't take the tender back," he said. Here, the two groups who proposed the law and applied it didn't even meet in common. So, what's to be done with this rushed law, what's to be done, who's to rush you into such a rush, who's to rush you into two legs like this? I'm asking you, to the esteemed lawmakers, if you were in our place, wouldn't you be looking for ulterior motives? Dear lawmakers, I think the amendment to this law is to give the tender to my own man, and that's how I conduct this change, how I transfer the resources of the government's institutions and institutions to my allies. In fact, there are other flaws in this law. One, let's make sure the tender is given before the tender starts. Two, I want a description of the firm or the person who received the contract. Three, let the tender be determined what the AKP will give. Come on, let's write this down, and let's make it the way you want it to be. Let's write it down so there won't be any need to change that law again in the days ahead. Let's write it down so your true face will be revealed. Dear lawmakers, tenders are being made on people's safety, citizens' safety, health issues. There are tenders being made that concern our children, our public employees. The absence of necessary measures in the laws involved in this makes it possible for those who are playing with people's lives to retrial. And that's no public interest at all. According to the individual, the construction of the law has nothing to do with society. Perhaps the contractor of the House of Love is innocent, perhaps he will be acquitted as a result of the trial, but there is a fact that 30 of our citizens lost their lives last year in the House of Love. So, if the new tenders these people will receive are cheated again, if the consequences are damaged, if one of our children is caused to get sick by the food they distribute, who will pay for it? My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0394par0337	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of his subjects, Mr. Zülfü Demirkağ Elazığ MP. Here you go, Mr. Ironbone.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0395par0341	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf to address the Law Proposal for Amendments to the 4/1/2002 date and the 4734 Public Contraction Act. I salute you all. Of course, it has been five hours since the discussion of two words in one of the articles of the Law. And after these discussions, I salute you all again with the hope that it would be good for this law proposal to say too much, since both our minister and our fellow speakers have informed you in sufficient measure of this bill-changing offer, both with the thought that it would bore you both, that it would be disrespectful, and that it would be disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0394par0344	Thank you, Mr. Ironbone. Second speaker, on behalf of Mr. Ilyas Candy, Alderman of Bigeli. Dear Sugar, here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0396par0348	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 2nd Amendment to the Public Contraction Act. As you know, the last two articles of the law, one is a matter of execution, and one is an executive clause. And since mine's a proprietary clause, there's not a lot to say about it. However, I looked at the opposition, and I noticed something in there, and I specifically want to point out that the arrangement there is a prerequisite for the tender of terrorist criminals. There's a statement that says, "It's not possible to participate, it's not possible, it's already clear that those involved in terrorism can't participate." Another thing is, as in every matter, as in every law, there's talk of a runt here. I remember very well, when we were talking about the Transformation Act under Disasters. I was really upset at the time. We live in an earthquake country, and I'm the MP of the Alexandrian region, and it was said that 20,000 people died in the earthquake, but scientists object that only one person -- 17,000 people in the official number -- was killed because the buildings were completely destroyed because they were not safe and healthy. I don't think that's the kind of thing that's worth taking into account. In particular, this urban transmutation law, in its public name, in its general name, is the Transmutation Act of the Areas Under the Disaster, and, of course, as all lawmakers in our district, we need to support the government without any political discrimination, we need to support the ministry. God forbid, the lives of thousands, tens of thousands of our people will be extinguished again in a possible earthquake. The same earthquake occurs in Japan, where about 100 people die, and when we do, 10,000, 20,000, 30,000 people die, and that's a problem that comes entirely from buildings. In that sense, I congratulate our Ministry, he's got great work to do, but I'm saying we need our support. I wish you all the best of this law, and I offer you all my respect and love.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0397par0354	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute question-and-answer on the matter. Two of our friends are in the system. Mr. Bridgel...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0398par0358	Minister, there is a solid waste disposal facility planned to be established in Çikirdağ district of Çorı district of Tekirdağ. Regarding this solid waste disposal facility, people, NGOs all opposed this facility and the opening of this facility, and the City of Corridor has rejected the request for zoning changes. However, your ministry has the authority to replace zoning plans by replacing local governments, under the authority vested in by the SEC, and your ministry has changed its plans for the development of this facility. Do you see it right for your ministry to make this change without listening to anyone, taking full authority, even though it is not the will of the people of Chorus, Tekirdağ, local governments? Do you consider this an injustice to the people of Thrace and Tekirdağ?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0397par0359	Thank you, Mr. Bridge. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0399par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, I'm afraid our motion to investigate the Ataturk Forest Farm before the festival has been rejected. We said we had serious concerns about the research proposal for the preservation of the Ataturk Forest Farm, which Ataturk gave us. Yesterday, Ankara Metropolitan Municipality decided to increase the size of the zoo they wanted to build from 30 hectares to 213 hectares, or rather, a decision was made to reduce the area from the first-degree area to the third-degree status area, and their plan notes set a precedent of 0.10 for construction. That's 213,000 square meters of closed space, Mr. Secretary. Please note our sensitivity in this matter carefully. The Ataturk Forest Farm is not the property of the father of Melih Gökçek, nor is it a farm. This place has been donated by Ataturk for agriculture, and this is the only way to use its purpose. In this way, we ask you to prevent these savings from being made in the municipality. We're going to open up the cases anyway.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0397par0363	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0400par0365	Mr. Minister, we know that Erzincan will have an urban transformation at Central Market. What I'm really trying to ask is, in the buildings that have been built for the last two or three years, will you do any research on these new buildings, where the size of the concrete sample is low? I want to learn that, because people are getting nervous right now, especially after this decision by the Competition Committee for the past two days in Erzincan. The speaker says that 100 people died in Japan and thousands died in Turkey. This is our fear. Will there be a concrete study in the new buildings in Erzincan? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0397par0367	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0401par0369	Mr. Secretary, you've given some information in your previous conversations. The other ministers are giving us information. You are the minister of the Republic of Turkey. Some information may not be of any use to you or to you personally, but I ask you, please, when you're on the stand, to investigate, to investigate, and if you don't know, to tell the truth. You're just saying that we've never been sued. You have my question motion, your signature answer, a lot of lawsuits. So if you're a little more careful about this sort of thing... let me tell you, there are a lot of cases against the agency about the KC Group going to Denizbank, and I can give you a list of them. On the other hand, you are the trustees of the powers and documents entrusted to you, this is the document of the people. I'm asking for a lot of documents from the TOKI institution that depends on you, and a lot of these documents aren't coming. I repeat before the House, make sure that I receive the contract, the contract, and the document of the Next Construction, which is in Ankara. Here...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0397par0372	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0401par0373	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0397par0374	Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0402par0375	Mr. Secretary, I hope you'll answer that question the third time I've asked you because the TV is out of airtime. If the land built in Ataşehir is your personal property, would you give 30 percent to 35? Secondly, lawmakers used to be unable to enter these tenders for three years after their mission was over, and now you're removing it. What lawmakers have asked you to consider this, and this need has arisen and you remove it? Are you prepared for current lawmakers to take advantage of such a thing? Other than that, why are the contractors who are accused of defrauding the state when lawmakers who are still under arrest can't benefit from the purity of innocence? Can you answer that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0403par0379	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0404par0381	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been evaluated by the request of the zoning plan for solid waste in Tekirdağ Çorı district. However, the solid waste plant is organised not only based on the zoning plan, but also according to the CED report. The CED report is also assessed according to the decision to be made as a result of a meeting with local executives, mayors, mayors, NGOs, representatives of public concerned institutions. The people here, the people who live there, the people who live in Tekirdağ Çorı district, can also be seen how many of them, how many percent of them, do not want this job, or can be seen after the vote is taken. So we're trying to do what's right for the public. With all due respect. The question Mr. Gök has asked about the Ataturk Forest Farm is that the Ataturk Forest Farm, in the legal arrangement that we have made, is that it is an institution and organization that must serve Ankara, which should be served by the people of Ankara, in order to maintain and assess it in accordance with the will of the Supreme Ataturk, the founder of the Republic of Turkey, and in accordance with the spirit of the law of that day. In this regard, 30 hectares are needed, and the lack of the necessary service has increased this area, and there is no zoning situation here. The 10 per cent recursion given is the right to build. It's an arrangement for the protection of green, nature, nature, fauna, flora, endemic life. Such an arrangement was given by a study of scientific rules all over the world. With all due respect. The question asked by Mr. Light is a very valid question. We've made an urban transformation in Erzincan, where there's a reward from the world. Indeed, the Erzincans know the old and the new. Erzincan is our deputy, and I thank you for your appreciation. But are you going to experiment on concrete buildings in the last two or three years? The question is truly an admirable question. Now, very valuable MPs, we say that in earthquakes, in disasters, our people should not die. We need to do this together. If we have this law... to protect life, to protect people's lives, to protect people's right to live... on the one hand, the MPs of the same party say: "We are against this law, this law is the Rant law." I'm trying to express it, I'm saying, "I don't have the money to make a tender, I'm not going to tender it." With the money we've got, we'll pay rent, we'll help you move. As a disaster to our citizens, I can't stay in this house, I'm going to get out of this house, I'm going to buy a house, I don't have money, give me credit support. That's the way it is in our law. The other, as a matter of fact, is to raise awareness, to raise awareness together... if our citizen suspects his own home, our citizen should be responsible. It is their responsibility to go home with carotids or otherwise, to experiment with building control agencies, municipalities, institutions of the Ministry, universities, and to determine whether their homes can withstand earthquakes, whether concrete, iron, donuts, concrete are healthy. But if we see any danger, we can do resen. It's our citizen's responsibility to do it, then the municipalities, then the state, but as a state, we're responsible for the whole thing. If we see a dangerous place, we go, we do it, we do it in Erzincan, we do it in Hakkari, we do it in Tekirdağ, we do it in Istanbul, we do it in Marseilles, we have to do it, but our job is to help citizens who want to make urban transformations, help people who want to build their homes. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm making a special offer.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0405par0388	Answer him in writing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0404par0389	Mr. Special wasn't here, so I gave him the answer. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Special is here in a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0406par0390	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0404par0391	Sir, if your father owned the land in Ataşehir, would you give it to him by 30 percent? I explained that. I repeat, I present to the High Council. Look, very valuable MPs, the plots in Ataşehir have been sold for $50 million shortly before we came to power. So I complained to the D.A.'s office as president, dealt with it personally, stood up to the worst threats I'd ever received, and I went, and I took it to the state. How do we bid on the land there? With open bids. What is the value of the land according to the value identified by SEC-related companies? 100 lira. We're kind of selling the land, and we're saying: how much would you give us for this land? To the highest bidder -- let's say they give $200 to the $100 plot -- plus: you'll give me $200, but we're in it as a state; we're in it for security; we're in it as a license; we're in it as an audit; in that case, how much will you charge us when you give us $200, for example $400? If you collect more than 400 liras, you have to give us a plus share. It'll give us 10 percent, 5, 1 percent, 30 percent, 40 percent, 50 percent, based on the price of the land he gave us. It's not the ratio he gives, it's the value of the land he gives. And after that, when he's paying us for the land, the money he's selling us goes into our vault, and we take them, and as long as we're building them, we let the contractor go. It's a system like this, dear friends. So I'd like to express this specifically to my friend who asked the question. I can offer this in a much more detailed way, I can tell you. This system is a beautiful system, a system that is appreciated by the world. I sincerely say, America, Brazil, many countries in the world, teach us this system, and we'll do that, and we'll sell the state's land, 50 lira land for $200. I beg you, I beg you, so please investigate this, talk about it, discuss it, share it, meet around an idea together. If we're wrong, we accept our punishment.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0407par0396	Let's talk on a TV show together, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0404par0397	Don't do it, don't do it...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0407par0398	Let's talk on TV together.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0404par0399	Dear friends, I beg you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0408par0400	You know those SEC experts' documents have been canceled, right?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0404par0401	Look, they'll hurt the country, they'll hurt the country, don't do that. And let me tell you this: look, from there, a company only gets eight percent of the tenders because it's a consultant. I went to the courts, I tried. Here, our CHP friends opposed it, very strongly opposed it. They were going to take a quadrillion dollars from the state, and I went here myself, day and night, begging the MPs, begging them, and I said, "They're taking this money from us. Aman, let's make a law, let's get rid of it; they're going to take money from 1.5 quadrillion states. The CHP MPs strongly opposed it, went to the Constitutional Court. I asked the Supreme Court for verbal defense myself, we went, we won the case from the Constitutional Court, we protected the state for 1.5 quadrillion of these cases again. I mean, we talk about it all the time, but we understand it all the time, but we don't understand you. Again, with love, with respect.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0409par0405	Mr. Secretary, has the documents of the SEC experts who evaluated these plots been revoked or not, just because they've been underestimating the land and destroying the state? This is from the Court's report, and I'm not saying it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0410par0406	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu, it's on the books.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0411par0407	I'm just saying, if you had personal property, would you give it to me like this?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0410par0408	Wait a minute, sir, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0412par0409	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0410par0410	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0412par0411	Friends, if a lawsuit was filed against me -- the 35,000 bids I've made -- were to be sued -- I promise to resign here in the presence of the Supreme Assembly, I will resign this minute, and I will resign from the Ministry! What do you think of yourself if you're not saying that right? I'm resigning. If there's an investigation, a lawsuit, at 35,000 tenders on me, I'm ready to resign. I'm resigning today.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0413par0412	Let them resign.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0412par0413	What do you say about yourself in return? Bring it if you have it. Do you have a warrant? Do you have a warrant? Bring it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0414par0414	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0412par0415	Bring it, I'll resign. If I don't quit, I'm an asshole. What do you call yourself?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0415par0417	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0412par0418	If I don't quit, I'm an asshole. Bring it, do you have it? They're suing for late delivery on the teacher...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0416par0420	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, there's an important claim on the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0412par0421	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0417par0422	Wait a second.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0416par0423	There's an insult. I want two minutes of your time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0417par0424	Here you go, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0418par0425	Mr. President, is there such a thing as this?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0419par0426	On what grounds, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0417par0427	Please, just a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0431	First of all, I didn't say there was a case against you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0421par0432	That's what you said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0433	You said there was no case against the firm. I said there were cases of corruption about institutions. Did you ever...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0421par0434	If there's a corruption case against the institution...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0435	Look, I'm just saying, don't do anything...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0421par0436	I accept him on my own.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0422par0437	Mr. President, the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0438	If you come 550, cut off my head, I will not give up my resolve to fight corruption. Listen to me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0423par0440	No, it didn't.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0441	Two: my arguments are clear. It's obvious what I'm claiming on this stand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0424par0442	Your job is to show off.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0423par0443	Guys, wait a minute. Let's hear it in silence.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0444	Let's go out and talk. If I can't document my claims...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0425par0445	Why don't you go out with the document? Get up here with a document.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0423par0446	Guys, wait a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0447	Look, I'm telling you, if I don't document my claims, I'm resigning as a member of parliament, I'm not going to pass by the House again, but if I document my claims, Mr. Secretary will resign.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0425par0448	Brother, come out with the document!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0449	Let's go!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0426par0450	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0427par0451	I want five minutes' promise, she's picking on me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0452	Here you go, let's go! The TV station you want, what you want... it could be any channel.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0426par0453	Mr. Erdoğdu, please sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0428par0454	Aykut, I'll resign with you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0420par0455	Come on, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0426par0456	Let's just calm down, guys, okay. [[Continue]] There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: In Article 2 of the current proposal, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed to 1.1.2050. Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi Haydar Akar Gürkut Acar Aykut Erdoğdu Muharrem İlm Ali Sarıbaş Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0429par0472	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0426par0473	Who will speak, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0430par0474	Mr. Ali Sarıbaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0426par0475	Mr. Yellowhead, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0431par0477	2050 early, 2100.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0432par0478	If you wait nine months, you won't be early either.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0426par0479	Please, please... calm down, guys.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0432par0480	Dear President, my dear fellow lawmakers, first of all, our Minister, said in his speech about the law: "We made 35,000 tenders, and we owed the IMF, when this law came out in 2001, to the International Fund of Money." Is that what he meant here? ▪ These laws were so true then, that we had money, and the terms of the tenders and the laws of that day's tender, we insisted on changing a tender law that did not provide equal opportunity or feeding or feeding or feeding or feeding our allies, and it meant permanent? That's how I see it. So we're out of debts, we're out of money, we're gonna feed them, we're gonna make them drink them. Now, the administration hasn't been given initiative, and we're doing it here because the bidders don't know about it. Mr. Secretary, speakers, you have your own IYAP, UYAP. You will now enter your Internet, where the company will know whether or not you've opened an investigation. Gene is constantly written on the CIC website. Again, when I'm in the tender and I'm really, really an architect, am I naive to not know if there's an investigation against me or not? Well, if the owner or executive of that firm or the owner of that tender is so naive, it's not likely he'll be able to finish the bidding anyway. Don't make such a fool of our people, please. It's something else. It's called this accelerated pre-season clause, the 27th amendment to the 11th Amendment of Article 4734, why are you so quick and excited that we've been meeting at this time of night, since 2001? There's something right here. The correct determination is that after this, three years of tenders, non-elected lawmakers, mayors, new tenders and rants in TOKI, while people who have been pardoned or indicted or have been investigated, will they attempt to be passed after this item taken in the middle of the night? (HPP clapping in rows) Did my friend just get born early? I'd like to make him listen to this. This premature birth is the birth of this law.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0433par0483	What about the thermal bell?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0434par0484	Come to the bell, to the bell.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0432par0485	My dear friends, it's not that simple. There are three feet in a tender: one is a public servant, one is a contractor, a contractor, and a political foot.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0435par0486	He is, in your opinion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0432par0487	During this period, with the political contractors, with the contractor, is it possible that we are preparing for elections quickly? Dear friends, may I have your attention, please? So, even though the D.A.'s confidential investigation into the tender's record -- the person you've submitted today's tender, everyone's bid -- isn't he going to investigate him and investigate him? We have a lot of lawyer friends here. Is there any chance that person doesn't know about the tender? I've been listening all evening, please, keep our people awake. That's not an understanding. Don't fool him, too. This word is written behind the word. Now, our people, in the transparent, competitive environment of a tender in the country, really, not like inviting a person, an individual, an invitation to the company, but here the monopoly, as it used to be, let's not create backpackers within our own allies. Don't grant them forgiveness, because your conscience will hurt here. It's all of our money. I don't have any money today, Mr. Secretary. He says, but in your tenders... Not 35,000, I hope you'll bid 70 grand, but as long as the bidding is done right in a competitive environment... how? Within the integrity of the project, not piece by piece. Even on the highways, when they were all together, you gave it five kilometers, five kilometers. Don't play with these. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0436par0492	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0437par0494	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0436par0495	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 2 is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Haluk Eyidoğan is an Istanbul MP. Mr. Eyeborn, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0438par0503	Mr. President, your esteemed lawmakers, a member of the AK PARTY, who came here to speak, spoke of patience. We're very patient, too. From the arrival of this bill, we've been really patient so far, because you didn't even apply the 48-hour rule when the bill first came to the Commission's view. He was released from the Commission on October 18th. This bill was discussed and arrived here on November 1st. What's the rush, what's the rush? We're having a lot of arguments about the procedure here, so we're having an argument about irregularities. See, according to the 20th article of the Civil Code, the bill and proposals for publicity, development, housing, transportation and tourism, and international agreements are being transferred to the Publicity, Development, and Tourism Commission, right? What did you do? You have brought the proposal to change the Public Contraction Act to this Commission. We've been arguing for hours, having legal discussions. So, we're having so much legal debate, why haven't you submitted the amendment to the Justice Commission? We insisted on it, we said it over and over in the Commission, and it's on the record there. This law proposal, the amendment offer, must be entered into the Justice Commission. We said, "You didn't rush it." So, this bill was based on the Justice Commission first, and here you have committed irregularities. I told you about 48 hours. According to Article 36 of the Civil Charter, the proposal referred to to the commission should not be taken into the commission's agenda before the 48-hour waiting period expires. I called Mr. Commissioner, and I said, "You're not following the 48-hour rule." We couldn't agree with him either, and we got the Commission together on October 18th. There was no Minister on the commission, no one to replace the Minister, so we waited for him for an hour. Here's another irregularity. Now, we've come to this day with all this irregularity, and we're still having our little disputes here, and then you ask for patience. Are we to be patient, or are you to be patient? In addition, another procedure is that you do not comply with the rule in the last paragraph of Article 53 of the Public Contraction Law (b). According to this, the Public Contract Agency is authorized to issue a standard tender document on the implementation of this Law and the Public Contracts Act, such agreements, regulations and notifications. According to the regulation of the Law, the Public Contraction Agency has the authority to organise legislation. In this regard, the Public Contraction Commission should have received an opinion from the Public Contraction Agency during the talks of the Law Against the Law. At the same time, the Commission should have received opinions from the Court and universities, but unfortunately, the Commission was not able to get enough of them. In many ways, a rash course of action has been carried out in the logic of error. Now, because of this rashness, there's a lot of doubt in our minds, and we'd like to discuss it. All of our lawmakers who spoke before me, Republican People's Party MPs, are talking head-to-head about the doubts you created, are you missing out on the fire? Or are you missing out on some tenders from the scales of justice? We'll all see that soon enough. Now, look, there's a survey of the Turkish Contractors' Association, a survey of Turkey's Contractors Association was conducted by several sections. It says: The basic view of the contractor society is listed as the country's reputation in the earthquake, in responsibility, work ethic and foreign relations. The study also found that citizens do not trust the private sector. You say, "Trust the Republican People's Party MPs." These polls don't even show. Twenty-three percent of those who respond to the private sector at the level of trust, are not confident, while 21.3 percent are very little and 35.37% of them are a little confident, and you are making concessions to these contractors that the public doesn't trust. And do you know how much people trust you? 4.4%. Those who don't have an opinion are 2.3 percent. Now, look, there's a very new story in the papers: the lawsuit contracting the contractor. The building he built in the Van earthquake was being processed for the murder of a person who was a contractor in Ercish. Erciş Public Prosecutor's Office has demanded arrest for this person, but the High Criminal Court has denied this request and has decided to stand trial without arrest. Do you have any idea what this person, who was tried without arrest, did after the earthquake? He's in two more public tenders. He was charged with murdering more than one person in the Erciş Asliye Criminal Court. What he said was the expert report of the Black Sea Technical University: there is no account report on the static project and the static project. There's no buildings, no columns, no cutouts, no donuts, no floorings, no cutbacks. The building he built is not known when, nor is the class of the materials. So, this person entered two public tenders. Now, look, there's been a recent article in the papers that says that the lawsuit against TOKI is 21,127 reparations. Why? Because of many mistakes made by contractors who were employed. I read the Court's TOKI review. Please, I have your attention. A review came from the Court of Public Housing Administration. Due to the failure of the dwellings to be delivered on time and the service flaws of the contractor companies, the number of cases, which were 3,031 in 2009, increased to 25.215. In the report, the amount of compensation paid during the same period reached $36.5m from $300,000. Who's doing all this? TOKI contractors. These are the defendants now. What are they going to do? With this amendment you're trying to make, they're all going into the tenders. In their study, the auditors who X-rayed the TOKI (TİKİHTAYA) say that the amount of compensation paid by the institution has increased by seven times in the last three years, work with more decent contractors. Work with more decent contractors, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0439par0510	It's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0438par0511	Yeah. I'm running out of time. Look, the schools are falling apart in an earthquake. The Ministry of National Education... the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has an Earthquake Research Commission in 2010, and they're doing research. 12 per cent of schools are said to be unsupervised, while 64 per cent must be strengthened primarily. Only 9 to 10 per cent of the school is said to be sound. Who built these public buildings, public buildings? Contractors took public contracts. This process can't go on like this. Now that these landscapes are in the middle, you can take a contract while the lawsuits of the contractors who made our schools, our public buildings, continue. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0440par0516	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Haci Bayram Türkoğlu, Hatay MP. Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0441par0520	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 3 of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to Public Contraction Act 336. I salute your high council. Yes, I'd like to express my deepest gratitude to the esteemed speakers, to our deputies, who have contributed to this proposal of the law. On the one hand, the public tender law has been imposed a ban on those who are willing to enter the tender, while on the other hand, the registration of temporary guarantees is a violation of both legal, human rights and constitutional rights. The offer of this law is a law that will eliminate this dilemma, which will give us the opportunity to eliminate the victim's victim's victimhood. This third article is the executive clause. If it becomes legal, I wish this clause to be a blessing, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0442par0525	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Second speaker, Mr. Mustafa Şahin, Malatya MP. Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0443par0529	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge regarding the third amendment to Public Contraction Act 336. I salute your high council. It's a beautiful work at the point where our friends, corporations, corporate partners, and corporate individuals who are really victimised by this amendment are being dealt with. I'm the one thanking all the friends who've gone through the motions. Along with the regulations made concerning this law, we feel that injustices will be resolved. I salute your High Council and wish you all the best.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0444par0533	Thank you, Mr. Hawk. Now, we're going to do a ten-minute QA on matter. Three of our friends are in the system. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0445par0536	Thank you, Mr. President. The public auction agency has a section on illegals on its official website, and anyone who wants to know if it's forbidden or if the bidders are banned, but there are no information tabs available for people who have a public case. Mr. Minister, Section 53 of the Public Contract Act 4734 has determined the authority of the institution, and Article 59 of the Article 59 of the Law on Public Relations, which has been decided to open a civil suit against the People's Attorney's Office, has been issued a public tender. So information about people who have been indicted should be compiled by the institution and published on the official website, but this is not being processed. Why isn't this being processed, and why do you need such a change today? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0446par0540	Thank you, Mr. Acar. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0447par0542	Mr. President, the Northern Ankara Urban Transformation Project was launched in April 2005, showing models and promotional films to its rightful owners, and it was said that homes from the highway would be given to them. But in January 2012, when the Prime Minister joined the lottery, the rightful owners tried to make their voices heard in very serious acts because they said that they had suffered serious injustices in the coming of the promised areas and particularly sub-basement apartments, because there were villas built on the land that the rightful owners had given them, but they said to themselves, well below the ground, apartments fell from the basements, and then the Prime Minister and the Mayor of the Metropolitan Mayor expressed to them that they would be able to deal with these injustices, but so far no concrete steps have been taken. We're wondering what's been done so far for victims of urban transformation in northern Ankara.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0446par0544	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0448par0546	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you all reacted when I was just speaking on the stand. I'm reading from the report now, Mr. Minister's words: there is no case filed against the Public Housing Administration in eight and a half years of my term and in the time after me, and there is no investigation, Mr. Minister. Now, I'm asking the Minister if there are a dozen of them, and I'm going to say one -- is there or is there not a case against the Public Housing Administration that you've damaged 30 trillion states because the KC Group has been guaranteed bank loans? There are dozens of cases about the House Office. I say everything I say based on the document. If I say it wrong, I'm sorry, but I'm telling the truth. All I've said so far is true, here's the report. If you want, I'm prepared to discuss all my claims, not only that, but on the platform the Minister requested. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He just used a lot of harsh words, and I'm not giving it back to a Republican minister, but I'm willing to prove it wherever he wants. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0449par0551	Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0450par0552	Mr. Secretary, even though your tenders at TOKI are not in the condition, you're making banks use loans to guarantee it. Isn't that unfair to the other bidders? Are you doing this based on what you're doing, or are you not taking advantage of the firm that's getting this financial support?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0449par0553	Thank you, Mr. Akar. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0555	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been written on the website of the Public Contractorship by law, which is stated, but there is one thing that says that those who are being sued on the basis of the law will be reported. The prosecution who has filed the case will report the law to the institution. There is no such thing, there is no obligation to report it, it is reported. Now, even if the contractors who have already been sued are already involved in the tenders, they can't make the contract, even if they agree to the tenders, according to the current tender law. Don't let it be known, don't let it be known, he can't do it. This is very clearly the Constitutional Court's decision, it's in the subtext of Article 11 of Law 4734, it's in Article 17, it's in Article 58, it's in Article 59, it's clearly in Article 59. Now, we're going through this over and over again, but we just can't explain it. The Supreme Court's decision is very clear, very dear friends, we can't do anything about it. That's what we do. Now, again, Mr. Gök told me about the North Ankara theory system, and he's right from ground to sky. He's right. We'll say thank you. There's been a big mistake there. We're against him, and our Prime Minister is against him. Our Prime Minister has seized the case, and we're working there to fix the injustice. Indeed, he bought an apartment from the north, from the ground floor, the same price, from the third floor, from the southeast front. It's wrong, and we're against it if our friend does the wrong thing. We'll fix it, there's a delay for him. You have warned me here; you have warned me, you have warned me, I thank you from the heart. Sir, we have a lawsuit against Mr. Congressman. He said. It's not a corruption case against an institution, it's a corruption case against individuals.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0452par0559	Either corruption isn't the issue, but you're saying there's been no trial, Mr. Secretary. The KC Group case is a corruption case, isn't it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0560	Look, there are maybe 150 or 200 cases about TOKI.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0453par0561	Well, you didn't just say that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0452par0562	You don't say that, then you say you're an asshole. Does it suit you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0563	Look, I talked about myself.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0453par0564	No, it says clearly in the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0565	I said it about corruption.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0454par0566	I'm not saying that, I'm saying what you just said. You can't call him an asshole because I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0453par0567	Now, right now, apologize, apologize right now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0568	I didn't call you an asshole. Look, guys, you mentioned corruption, the corruption case is open to individuals. I said there's no case against me, there's no case against friends after me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0455par0570	You call it the Public Housing Authority, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0571	Because of the Public Housing Administration, I'm correcting it if it's wrong. Friends, the corruption case is open to individuals. If it's about me... I'm saying the same thing, there are cases about TOKI due to late surrenders, so the TOKI is paying compensation, and we're getting the compensation from the contractors, and we're getting it. Dear friends, there's a delay in contractors from this, this is happening all over Turkey, but if there's a case against my person, I repeat what I say again, or I say it about my friends there. There's a KC.. what KC.. what I'm talking about right now..
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0455par0572	There's no need to go into too much detail, there's a case like this, and you know it, and I know it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0573	I do, I do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0455par0574	But then you say, "No." Mr. Secretary, I'm in a tough spot. My reputation shakes in front of your friends.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0456par0575	The report is open.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0576	Friends, look, there are hundreds of cases against the Turkish People, and there are lawsuits against the People's Witnesses. What's the case? A con artist, TOKI filed a lawsuit, a con artist...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0455par0577	The report is in the middle, what more do you claim?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0578	Friends, please don't twist it, there's a lawsuit against the TOKI, there's lawsuits against the people who are scamming the TOKI, there's lawsuits about the TOKI due to late delivery or flawed work. We're paying off the contractors. My dear friends, look, here you have accused us of corruption, and we have accused him of it, and you have accused him of irregularity. Is there a case against us about the tenders? Do you have a case on me about contracts?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0455par0580	Mr. Secretary, you're saying that there is no such thing as the Public Housing Authority. I object to that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0581	But it's about corruption, the tender... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Guys...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0457par0584	Please, please... let's calm down. Yes, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0451par0586	Mr. Akar is crediting the contractors. We don't let contractors use loans. We don't let contractors use loans, they do. We don't give loans or loans. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0457par0588	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My dear friends, the negotiations on the matter are complete.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0458par0590	Mr. Secretary, I assume you have an apology to make.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0459par0591	You've been very unfair to us, Mr. Secretary. You've been very rude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0458par0592	The report is open.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0459par0593	My heart is burning so much about it, I speak very kindly, what are you saying?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0458par0594	I assume you have an apology to make. You said you were sorry. Come on, come on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0460par0595	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0461par0596	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0460par0597	Mr. President, the Minister's statement is in the report. I've heard it here, I haven't had enough, I'm looking at the report. Mr. Secretary says: "There is no case filed against the Public Housing Administration in eight and a half years of my time and in the time after me, there is no investigation." Now you're saying a very ambitious sentence, Mr. Secretary, and you're saying other things again. I also accept the lawsuits filed against TOKI, not personally. You said. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu also proved that that was not true. Now, it's up to you, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0462par0598	Quit!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0460par0599	...to apologize to Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu for this statement.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0463par0600	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0464par0604	Dear friends, some of them sleep now, but some of them pretend to sleep, and whatever you do to her, she doesn't wake up, she doesn't want to wake up, she goes on pretending to sleep. I may have used the word "TOKI" there, but they're meant to be from here. You've damaged the TOKI, the state, you've made a mistake with the tenders. There's a case like this about individuals. The case against TOKI, I'm saying, right now, there are 50, a hundred, two hundred, five hundred cases, there are lawsuits against the people who are scamming the TOKI, there are lawsuits against the people, there are lawsuits against the people because of the imperfect work that the TOKI did, and we're paying them back, and we're taking this from contractors. We have to be very careful when we say you are there. What did the Clave here, the High Council, understand? You blamed me...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0465par0605	I didn't charge you personally, no.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0464par0606	And I've stated whether there's a case against me or not, that there might be a false slip of the tongue, and now I'm correcting it. It's a sin to be purposeful. It's a shame. I'm not saying this to you, I'm telling my friends, I'm telling myself, I'm not telling you. Now, I say, O friends, the great assembly, I build windmills, windmills. You say to me, "Where will you bring the water from?" I say, "It will return with the wind." I don't know. Where will you get the water? It's a mill, but it's a windmill, it's a wind. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Please, you guys, there's no such thing as a lack of privacy. You accuse me, you insult me, I won't speak... We don't respond to insults with insults. We respond to insults by saying what we did and what we didn't do. While you were accusing me, I made a tender of 35,000, large and small, in my eight-and-a-half years as president of TOKI. While you're about to thank me, brother, in our time, the mayors have been put in jail, the senior bureaucrats have been put in jail, there are still men in prison, there are men in prison who are close to us. You don't look at the age of my eye or the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey or the prosecutor of the Republic of Turkey, and I'd be in jail now. I say: If there is a case against me during the eight-and-a-half-year period of the TOKI period, which I did in Istanbul -- four-and-a-half years -- during the General Directorate of KIPTAŞ, which I did in Ankara Municipality -- one year -- during the Metropolitan General Directorate period, let alone the case, I repeat what we say, if there is an investigation. Don't deflect anything. Please, my dear friends, you see, you're going to do business... well, we're speaking incorrectly, we say that Turkey is not the 16th economy in the world. So, what percentage of interest were you paying in 2002, when you took money from the bank, what percentage?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0610	What's the Minister doing?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0467par0611	Mr. Secretary, can we have an answer, please?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0464par0612	30%. How much are you paying now?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0613	How many minutes did that talk?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0464par0614	How many now? Five percent, seven percent. What was inflation, overnight inflation? 400 percent. How many now? 5%.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0615	You'll give me the same amount of time!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0468par0616	I'll give it to you. Don't worry, calm down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0464par0617	Do not attempt to envelop the sun with clay.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0618	He's been talking for seven minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0468par0619	You ask questions, he answers. Calm down, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0620	He's not answering the question, he's doing something else right now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0469par0621	Don't try to deflect. Look, I'll tell you this: now, if you'll excuse me, you've insulted me a lot, I'm not insulting you, we're telling you what we're doing. Not at all, I have no intention of fighting, and I have no intention of insulting you. If I commit a crime, I apologize, I kiss hands, I don't do them, I kiss them on the forehead, but let me tell you, dear friends, in the end of 2002, we have very valuable lawmakers:
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0623	What the hell does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0469par0624	Excuse me, fellas. ...the Turkish Republic had 25-27 billion dollars in its treasury. Now, there's $115 billion. Is that wrong, too? Oh, it reminds me: Now, you're telling us to go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0626	Mr. President, the question-answer is over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0627	Just a minute... just a minute, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0469par0628	We have no intention of leaving power.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0466par0629	Don't give me two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0630	Please calm down, I'll give it to him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0469par0631	But, if we leave power, you'll stop for six months. In six months...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0471par0632	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0633	Why don't you shut up, brother?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0471par0634	What do you mean, why don't you shut up?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0635	You asked a question, just a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0471par0636	Two hours...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0637	I'll give it to you, sir. Shut up. Listen.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0471par0638	But, Mr. President, that's not enough!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0639	I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0472par0640	You're gonna get screwed, you're gonna get screwed, you're not gonna finish the treasure, you're gonna eat $5-10 billion, you're gonna go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0471par0641	Really, isn't that rude?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0470par0642	I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0472par0643	That's what happened in Istanbul, that's what happened in the BSKI, that's what happened in Ankara, that's what happened in the state. Six months, tops. Don't covet 110 billion dollars, you won't be able to finish that money, it won't end so easily.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0471par0644	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0472par0645	Your problem is, we've filled the treasure, we've paid off the IMF, we've raised the economy, things are going smoothly, how can we come and hit it? You can tell by that, he's your problem now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0473par0647	Look how we hit it, you're after it...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0474par0648	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0472par0649	Mr. Aykut, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0474par0650	Thank you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0472par0651	I'm going to apologize to you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0475par0652	How do we hit him? You're after him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0472par0653	Oh, yeah? Woe to you! Woe to you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0476par0655	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0475par0656	Don't talk like that, don't talk like that! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0476par0657	Mr. Erdoğdu, please... Mr. Hamzacebi, to answer Mr. Erdoğdu, who will speak, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0475par0659	I'll do the talking, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0476par0660	Here you are, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0477par0662	Why is he talking, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0478par0663	Why is he talking?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0477par0664	By what clause did you promise? Why did you promise?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0479par0665	Sir, excuse me. Over. Please, not to challenge anything again, Mr. Erdoğdu, calmer please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0480par0668	Mr. President, I have the potential to insult you as much as any of those harsh insults, but I will not insult this House with any respect, I will only say this: I have said two things throughout the speech: One: why didn't you bid openly? Two: has 770 trillion TOKI been damaged?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0481par0671	All our contracts are open, all our contracts are open.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0480par0672	I've said two things and you've said, "There's no case against the House Office, there's no investigation, there's no investigation, there's no case in my time of eight and a half years, and there's no case against my colleagues after me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0481par0674	No investigation, that's right. Yes, do you? Is there an investigation, an investigation?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0480par0675	Here's the report. Don't fall apart for nothing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0481par0676	Bring it on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0480par0677	Here's the report. And I said, "Mr. Secretary, there are a lot of cases against the House of Commons."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0482par0679	What's the result? What if it is?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0483par0680	Friends, please let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0482par0681	No results, no results...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0484par0682	Dude, why are you yelling?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0482par0683	Any results?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0484par0684	Why are you yelling? You can't break my speech. I've got a fight. [[AK PARTY and CHP rows exchange speeches, noise]] In the face of this...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0485par0687	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0484par0688	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0485par0689	I'm telling you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0486par0691	Don't deflect!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0485par0692	Minister, please let him finish.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0487par0693	Now, Mr. President, they won't be able to stop me from speaking. What I'm saying is clear, the reports are clear, and I'm saying there's no case against it. I gave him a sample case, and he kept one on the case I gave him...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0488par0694	Tell me what the result is, what's the result?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0485par0696	Please, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0489par0697	All our contracts are open.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0485par0698	Madam Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0490par0699	Shut up, shut up, shut up, shut up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0485par0701	Dear Godkulu, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0491par0703	For God's sake, we've been listening to you for nine minutes, nine minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0492par0705	You think you can shut us up, we're the people's surrogates.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0493par0706	You're lying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0494par0708	Guys, let's just calm down, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0492par0709	You can't shut us up, we won't shut up, and we'll talk forever, especially for the orphan.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0493par0711	You're lying!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0494par0712	Guys, please calm down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0492par0713	What dignity hangman? We're not gonna shut up... what I'm saying is wrong, which I'm saying is wrong, which is not documented, and which is not entitled to an orphan.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0495par0715	You're lying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0496par0716	Madam Secretary, please calm down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0492par0717	We're gonna be on TV, and if I'm lying to you, I'm gonna quit, and if I'm telling the truth, you're gonna quit. Are you in? Didn't you say that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0495par0719	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0492par0720	You said that, and you lied, and now you're acting out of guilt.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit03spe0497par0722	Guys, I'm gonna take a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0497par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We'll continue the discussion of Law Proposal 336. The commission is in place. The government is in place. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm reading...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0498par0006	Mr. President, one moment, sir. Mr. Erkut Erdoğdu's speech on the stand was interrupted, and he did not complete his speech. I'd like you to give him time to finish his speech, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0497par0008	Mr. Hamzacebi, if you'll excuse me, let's continue in this state of the House. Friends said they'd tell each other in person. I think it's all about the frying pan.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0498par0009	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0497par0010	Besides, if there's a meeting, they'll sit down and see each other.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0498par0011	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0497par0012	Now, there's no point in prolonging this any longer, so if you'll excuse me, we'll just leave it here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0498par0014	Congratulations! Sir, look, Mr. President, here's the picture: you've given the Minister nine minutes to speak, there's no place for that in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0499par0016	There is a place for him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0498par0017	But let him speak, of course. If the Minister feels the need to speak, let him speak not nine, but fifteen minutes, nineteen minutes, I have no objection, I don't care. Mr. Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for your word in this frame, and he has taken the stand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0500par0018	How many times is he gonna talk? He's talking!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0498par0019	Because of the pressure of the majority, Mr. Erdoğdu failed to complete his speech. Mr. Aykut, we don't accept this.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0501par0020	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0502par0021	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0501par0022	You promised Aykut Bey because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0503par0023	Twice.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0501par0024	All your applications are two minutes away from bullying. Right now, Mr. Erdoğdu's speech period has been two minutes and twenty-six seconds.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0504par0025	But I couldn't talk for a minute and a half, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0501par0026	But you didn't get the Minister to talk. Two minutes of time there, our friends probably didn't make a point, because that's how you do it. Time is complete. I'm supplying, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0505par0029	The Minister's nine-minute speech is based on what decree of the Civil Code, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0030	Now...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0505par0031	Yes, I want an explanation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0032	Mr. Hamzacebi, would you excuse me? Look...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0505par0033	So, if there's a vice president of the ruling party that's doing the twenty-six seconds, I have to answer for nine minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0034	You're right...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0507par0035	You did, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0036	But believe me, our friends -- they're sitting here -- let them explain. They said, "We've extended the Minister's speech for him." They just wanted some friends.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0508par0037	Let me explain, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0038	Also, Deputy Chairman of the ruling party group, your...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0039	So let him confess. They said, they're here. There is no other Civil Code clause or any other intention, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0040	The Deputy Chairman of the ruling party group, Aykut Erdoğdu, is interfering with the right of appreciation for your promise to him? Based on the majority of the group behind him?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0041	No, it's not like that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0042	Is that what you're listening to, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0043	Okay... No, sir, you're right...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0044	I ask you to promise Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0045	...you're right, and that's when...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0046	We demand nine minutes as much as the Minister, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0510par0047	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0048	If you'll excuse me, our friend from where he's sitting...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0050	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0506par0051	But Mr. Secretary spoke from his seat.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0053	Mr. President, there's no way, no, no, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0511par0054	Please be fair, Mr. President, please be fair.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0509par0055	There's no way we can accept that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0512par0056	Yes, sir, all right. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0513par0059	How many minutes, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0512par0060	Please... please, let's finish without further ado and without further ado, Mr. Erdoğdu, I beg you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0514par0062	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're not here to create tension. You're telling us that this nation... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, you don't even make me talk. Listen, please, these are matters of interest to you. We're talking about a nation's property, property. We're going to go out, and we're going to say, "This is it, these are the allegations." We're going to come out with our documents, we're going to put them in. And the Minister will say, "No, brother, these claims are not true." The things we say are clear, and I say things beyond these arguments. Now, Mr. Secretary says, "I come up here because I'm a liar, I'm a liar, I'm a liar, I'm a liar." In front of all of you, Mr. Secretary, let's go on any platform you want, and I'll make my claims, and you can put yours on the line. If my claims are false, if they're not based on any document, I'll do whatever it takes, but if my claims are based on the document, if they're based on government documents... you're a trustee to those goods, they're the property of the nation. If it's unfair, if it's illegal, you have to do what you have to do, and you have to encourage all the MPs, not just my group, but yours. I'm not saying anything right now, because I'm about to tell you what's going on. You look like you're shutting things down, and that's what you're doing now, unfortunately. Because you don't make me talk. I, as a representative of the nation, as a member of parliament, say very important things about the property of the nation. Why do you shut him up, why are you yelling, does that suit you? It's people's property. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0515par0067	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu, and thank you very much for your understanding.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0516par0068	As we speak, you shout, as spirit triplets, in choirs.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0515par0069	Please, please. [[Continue]] Now, I'm going to read the motion on matter: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 3 of the proposed bill, we propose and propose that the statement of the Council of Ministers be changed as Minister of the Environment and Urbanism. Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi Haluk Eyidoğan Ali Sarıbaş Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion? We can't participate. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0517par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0515par0086	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0518par0088	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I didn't really expect to come to your presence, but I do feel the need to give a speech after this tension, after these discussions and talks. So far, we've found no power that tries to identify with religion, Islam, religious, conservative, spiritual values as well as the AKP government, trying to adopt them as their own concepts, but I must say, there is no religious power, as many say, that there is no religious power, and there is no government that can refer to religious values. There is a earthly power in Turkey. There's religion for power, there's a government that uses it for religious power. With such a government understanding, we are now discussing the law he brought. Seven hundred years ago, Ibn Haldun, the great thinker, said, "Mal leads to power, power leads to property." With this bill, we see how the sentence of Ibn Haldun. The power carries you to goods. Now we're discussing one of the laws that will get you laid. Now all these spiritual values, religion, Islam, they don't have any of them, now they've got the rant enthusiasm, and the minarets, the domes, there's a skyrocket in the middle of that extraordinary Istanbul skyline. The religious architecture, the Ottoman architecture, the great architect Sinan school, the rise to God, the turning to God...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0519par0092	Please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0518par0093	...as an instrument of God's glory, instead of the minarets, which are his symbol, there is an understanding that rises to the sky today, with skyscrapers and rantas. This kind of power exists now in Turkey. Now, without respect for our profession, our culture, they are not afraid to plant a skyscraper in the middle of the extraordinary landscape of Solomoniye Mosque, they are not afraid, they are not afraid, they are not moved. No republic's government, no Istanbul mayor, no prime minister had ever thought of creating a skyscraper rising from the center of this magnificent landscape, the towers of Suleymaniye, Ayasofya, Sultanahmet, Topkapi Palace. This came to you. It's the rush that makes you do it. It's the days of looting and looting. The last scraps on the plate are now being swept away by your power. When this is over, the days of escape will begin, and I'll see you then. Now, based on your majority of us, we're going to see this sense of terror here in those days, where you're going.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0520par0094	It doesn't suit me. I don't see it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0518par0095	Mr. Metiner, I don't think so. You -- I told you once again -- either act here like in the books you've written, or you can say those books are not mine.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0520par0096	You obviously haven't read those books properly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0518par0097	My dear friends, this is the law of a power that can't get away from the rush. Good luck to you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0521par0100	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0522par0102	Mr. President, Mr. Group has given a speech that condemns governments, the AK PARTY Group, as they pretend to convince us of their motion, but they don't believe in it, that they're making it a runt. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make a speech.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0523par0103	Mr. President, I have criticised the government...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0522par0104	But to our power...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0523par0105	The Minister is here. Mr. Secretary may speak for bullying the government. The AK PARTY Group has no right to ask for a speech due to bullying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0522par0106	Mr. President, you can appreciate we've been bullied by the AK PARTY, the ruling group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0523par0107	No, he doesn't, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0522par0108	Why would the opposition party hear the Deputy Director when the ruling party withdraws from the deputy leader's speech?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0523par0109	Oh, it's beautiful. Look, I don't want you to...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0522par0110	Mr. President, I don't suppose you're going to decide whether or not I should speak.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0523par0111	Mr. President, let me finish my speech for a second.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0522par0112	Mr. President, will you allow me to speak?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0523par0113	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0524par0114	Wait a second. Now, Mr. Hamzacebi, you spoke, sir. Now, the Deputy Director of the Group is talking about bullying. If you'll excuse me, we'll make a promise for two minutes, and then I'll give it to you. After my word, you have no objection. Here, I'll give you one. Have a seat.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0525par0118	No, wait, I didn't finish my sentence. I've made a mockery of the government. Until now... look, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0524par0119	I promise, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0525par0120	Well, with respect, I'm sitting down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0526par0123	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Look, I told you once again from this bench, on March 14, 2008, a closed case was filed against the AK PARTY. While he was being closed, the president of the Republican People's Party said: "The finger of the capital does not hurt." The talks that some of our fellow candidates made about the headscarf were being held, the conversations that some of our parliamentary candidates had made differently, the allegations that a candidate of a parliamentary candidate had performed the prayer in one place, the indictments. We come from an understanding, a belief that everyone in Turkey who lives in the AK PARTY group, the Republican People's Party Group, the People's Party Group, the People's Movement Group, all of us who call themselves Muslims, all of us who call themselves Muslims, all of us who call themselves Muslims, all of us have faith. If someone says I'm Muslim, we have no right to judge him. Otherwise, we'd be as idolaters. Let him alone answer that on the Day of Judgment, when we believe. I'm thankful again here, I say, praise be to God, that it's a very important development for the deputy leader of a political party to present here, when four years ago, when this party was being sued to shut down Allah's mouth-mouthed cell, and accusing them of being a member of the group. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Praise be to my Lord who has shown me these days. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0527par0127	Thank you. Mr. Hamzacebi, do you have anything to say? [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Excuse me, one moment, friends, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0528par0131	Mr. President, I don't have any demands, just that Mr. Deputy Director of the Group had no right to speak according to the Civil Code. I didn't care about that until today, but I just made a promise to expose this contradiction because he made speeches that prevented my every request. Otherwise, in my understanding, the group vice presidents are always on the stand, talking. I don't have any demands.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0529par0132	But I didn't want to pick on you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0527par0133	Thank you. The motion...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0530par0135	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0527par0137	Why do you want it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0530par0138	There's a taunting of the government, a moment or two, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0527par0139	Yo, let's vote on this, bro. Let's vote on this.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0531par0140	You give a thank-you speech.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0527par0141	Say thank you, okay. [[Continue]] I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0532par0148	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0527par0149	All in favor... You're asking for a sufficient number of decisions, over and out, sir. I will submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough to decide, the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. Thus, before voting on the entire law, Yusef Başer, Yozgat MP demanded a statement to specify the color of the game according to Article 86. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0533par0156	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to state the color of my vote in favour of Law Proposal 336. On this occasion, I salute you all. The proposal of the law consists of one clause, and there has been sufficient negotiations on the matter. Law proposals, you know, are due to needs, and they've been offered this law to meet needs, negotiations have been made. My vote will be in favor of the proposal of the law, and my vote will be yes. I hope that the bill will be passed, I wish you well, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0534par0159	Mr. Basher, thank you. Mr. Kamer Young has requested a word against the color of the game... No. I submit the entire law to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Good luck, good luck. Mr. Secretary, would you like to give a thank-you speech?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0535par0164	I'm not...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0534par0165	Okay, this way, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0535par0166	Mr. President, I'd like to thank the Honorable Council of Congress. With this law, an uncertainty has been eliminated. It's a very simple arrangement. I'd like to thank Mr. CHP's Deputy Director for his speech. In fact, he didn't mess with our government. He's probably running for mayor of Istanbul. I congratulate him as a citizen. Hopefully, he'll run and get a vote like Mr. Kilicdaroglu, and he'll take over the CHP, and I'll support him as a citizen and congratulate him. He is an Istanbul lover, he speaks of Istanbul. I thank him as my fellowman and wish him well. And I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0536par0171	Mr. President, I mean, this isn't a pleasant conversation, so...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit04spe0537par0172	I'm taking a half hour break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0537par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will begin negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the fourth place: Financial Renting, Factoring and Financial Companies Act. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 239 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been completed and passed on to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Farit Mevlüt Aslanoglu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, has asked for the entire bill on behalf of the groups. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0538par0011	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, on a night like this, even though we all have this in common today, but with the events that have happened, it's depressing to me; I'm sad, I'm losing my will to speak. Dear MPs, we need two instruments in Turkey called leasing, or financial rentals and factoring. This law should have been passed years ago. It's a late law. Last semester came, but last semester didn't see each other, so it went through this period. All groups agreed on this issue; this law had to be passed. There was a law in the lower commission that both the top commission and the top commission did not have a 100 per cent agreement, but an important agreement. Because it was a law that was especially needed by financial rental and factoring agencies, a law that the government needed, because it brought certain disciplines in this sector. In this regard, we discussed and supported this law last year before Congress took a vacation. We don't have a 100% understanding, and some of the ingredients are not what we say they are, but they should be. I want to tell you a little bit about what's leading, what's factoring, and why is it so important? (x) 239 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. In the first 85 years, the esteemed lawmakers adopted the application of financial rental companies, or leading Turkey. What is it? The machine is the most important port for investors to buy equipment, where they can't get loans from banks, especially the small investor who wants to buy machines, is a very important port for medium-sized institutions. This performs an important function in Turkey, a vital liquid of medium-sized institutions in Turkey. It's a port for investors, small businesses, who want to invest, who want to improve the machine park. My dear friends, I'd like to give you a few numbers. The institutions that employ 1 to 99 people in Turkey in particular cover 68 per cent of the total employment in our country. The institutions that employ 1 person and 99 people meet 98 per cent of Turkey's employment, friends. Dear friends, at the same time, these institutions, what we call small and medium-term businesses, also cover 42 per cent of the added value produced by Turkey. In this respect, it's a very important institution to finance small- and medium-sized businesses, especially between one and 99 people, to invest, to renovate machine equipment. Although Turkey took effect in 1985, however, it has had certain problems in important certain processes, as it has not had sufficient laws during the period, since there is not enough law to discipline and govern the entire sector. I'd like to give you some numbers again. As of years ago, in our leading country, in 2006, he created $5 billion, $8 billion in 2007, $5 billion in processing volumes in 2008. So when we look at the terms of these contracts, there are 50,000 contracts, 48 thousand businesses, and the average size is 122,000 dollars, 125 grand contracts, but with the 2009 crisis, these $5 billion numbers have dropped to about $2 billion, and they've started to rise again after the crisis, and this time they've hit the state's added value tax wall. The government's made a mistake here, too. The port where 50,000 people are sheltered, the people who want to invest $5 billion a year, you come out of nowhere, and you say, "I made your VAT 18 percent." The state says that. Wait a minute, these are all small businesses. These don't belong to anyone. The government must own them. He can't get an outside loan, banks don't give loans, and he gets walled up. But they also made mistakes here because they didn't have enough laws to discipline them, so they took advantage of the loopholes of the law, and they made mistakes. He's going to paint his house, he's trying to leave. However, it was very important for the leasing investments. Then in 2010 and 2011 -- Mr. Minister here -- we brought very important criticism about this, you cut off our arms, you cut off these people's arms. Later, with an arrangement, VAT rates were dropped again in this practice, as long as there is investment goods. Mr. Secretary, it was very important. There's more to it than that, because why? He buys an investment property, a company that gets a loan from the bank, he brings it with zero VAT. The VAT rate is zero, but in the process, you applied 18 percent VAT to the investment property of a small business. It wasn't the right way. Especially the small investor's production, the small investor's investment. We took another significant step in the building, bringing VAT exceptions to the investment property, and when we looked at it from this point of view, the numbers rose to around $4 billion in the first nine months of 2012, for example. So it's a $4 billion investment worth of leasing. Friends, one of the most important events here is that the process is a five-year investment in leasing. So a small investor can get five years. The small investor is able to set up a monthly payment or a certain payment or a seasonal payment. In this regard, it is the most important financing for a small and middle-term investor for a Turkish investor. Surely it will make the Turkish manufacturer happy for all of us, and we will enjoy it. In this respect... it's important that the entire size of the law creates an honest, manly process volume. So I wish that the leading companies would take advantage of the void of that day's law and not make the same mistake again. In fact, there were these practices: of course, from all the legal spaces -- for example, they were building a Mercedes car, they were taking it to the ground because it didn't have a VAT, they were taking it away and selling it to someone else in notars. For example, since there's not 18 percent VAT... not to mention the Leassing companies, there were only cars that were built like this. I'm not talking about companies that finance investment goods; there's a loophole, a loophole. For example, when you were 10 percent short, there was a huge buyer in the market, and in the process there was such a huge car sale that it came to some very important numbers. My dear friends, especially from a small investor's point of view, this law will discipline the sector, the industry will work in very proper conditions, in this respect, we all need our support and support to the end. However, Mr. Secretary, there's a slight lack of foreign money, Turkish money, which was here in the last law, which was not here in the previous law. You said you'd fix it with a decree. I wish that once the law is passed, there will be no shortage of it, and our Undersecretary of the Treasury will arrange it somehow. That Turkish money, foreign money, is in the old law, and the issue that is not in the law comes first. Then there'll be no shortage of industry. My dear friends, that's the way it is. And what is factoring? Factoring is also, in Turkey, essentially, the purpose of financing a goods purchase; that's what it's really intended to do, but it's the financing of the goods that are bought on the bill, which is billed between the buyer and the seller. I'd like to give you a few numbers on this. The world's factoring industry's turnover is about $350 billion. Turkey is the 14th place in the world. Turkey has a volume of nearly $50 billion. In this regard, factoring in Turkey has come to significant digital sizes in recent years. This one didn't have a law either. Mr. Minister, of course, we have almost 99 per cent of our understanding of the Leasing Law, except for Turkish money, foreign money... and I hope that it will be regulated with regulations as soon as possible. But I can't say there's a 99% agreement in factoring. They've got problems, too. Their problem is that Factoring finances bills. Factoring is sort of selling money because he finances bills. Because he's selling money, of course, he's a risk, he's a client risk. Here, of course, other financial institutions benefit from a reciprocal decree, but somehow we can't benefit from it. Minister, 8 per cent of the non-banking financial institutions in Turkey create consumer financing, 1 per cent is an asset management, 10 per cent is a financial rental, 81 per cent is a factoring turnover. In this respect, he's a big supporter of the industry. In particular, again, a model of creating an easier financing for companies that can't get loans from banks, whose balance sheets are missing but do not reflect their assets and balance sheets, and the sector's turnover here exceeds about 71 billion Turkish liras. The most important event here is export factoring. Mr. Secretary, the MPs are very important to Turkish exporters. So an exporter in Turkey can deal with the company's overseas financing company, which buys goods abroad, and soon cash these bills. It's a very important model of export financing, especially for exporting Turkish exports. In this regard, both in Turkey and abroad, the factoring companies are becoming very important in this regard. Dear lawmakers, it's a very important law in the sector. This law has to be absolute, but I'm telling you, if it doesn't, we're going to present it with a motion or two. With one or two missing, there should be a full, perfect law. All the groups here have supported us, with common will, somehow we've had support from all groups. What is it? The sector needs to be dealt with. Is there anything missing? There is. So from this angle -- I'd like to ask -- if the Minister tells us that a substance that is in leasing is going to be removed in some way, first of all, with regulations on this issue, there's nothing missing, but in factoring, there's a couple of problems with the companies, especially in terms of tax purposes, about what they're going to be following. We've talked to the finances, and I don't think the finances are backing this up right now, but we're going to defend what's right until the end, and we're going to be there for everything that's right. The goal is to ensure that the sector and those institutions -- especially the only port of small-scale companies in Turkey -- have priority legal legislation. That's what we're trying to do, but I wish you'd listen to us. I wish you'd accept what we say, too, in a way. I, believe me, after what happened here today, I didn't feel like talking about it, I didn't feel like talking about it. I'm sorry if I'm missing anything. I tried to tell you the truth, the industry. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0539par0029	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. There's no further demands for the groups...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0540par0031	Yes, Mr. President. Please take a break for our group speaker to arrive. He's on his way.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0541par0032	No, no, no. Let's move on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0540par0033	Yes, we have a speaker for the group. Please take a break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0541par0034	Let's go in person.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0542par0035	You know too much, you know too much!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0541par0036	Is that supposed to happen?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0542par0037	You know too much!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0543par0038	What the hell do you know? What are you talking about? For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0541par0039	Don't be silly, calm down!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0543par0040	What the hell is wrong with you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0544par0041	In the name of the group...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0541par0042	Let's talk about it, and then we'll talk about it. Is there such a thing as waiting?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0545par0043	No waiting, you're sitting here with 20 people, no waiting.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0546par0044	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Vedat Demiröz...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0547par0045	On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Vedat Demiröz, Bitlis... Here you go, Mr. Vedat.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0548par0048	So what if you wait five minutes?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0549par0049	God is with the steadfast!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0548par0050	God is with the steadfast. He is not with the hasty. You're doing a great job!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0550par0051	Here you go, Mr. Irony.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0551par0052	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Law Bill 239 rows. I hereby pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0548par0053	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0551par0054	I pay you my respects, even if you're angry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0548par0055	You disrespected the National Movement Group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0551par0056	The Minister for Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Companies Act Plan and Budget Commission was held on 3 May 2012 by the Council of Ministers to head the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 23 March 2012, with the accession of representatives of the BDK, Development, Finance, Ministry of Maritime and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finances and Communications, the President of Turkey's National Bank, TMSF, the Union of Turkish Accession Banks, the TOBBB, the Faktoring Association, the Association of Financial Renting and Finance Corporations Association. I'd like to thank you in person for the contribution of opposition parties during meetings held at the Plan and Budget Commission. As a result of changes in the financial sector and the needs of implementation, these regulations seem to be insufficient for these companies to be able to carry out their activities in a reliable and effective manner. It is intended for companies to operate within the framework of legal regulations that can answer the needs of today, and the establishment and activities of companies related to it should be organised under a single rule of law. In this framework, it is necessary that the minimum-payment capital companies should have in accordance with the conditions of the day; the establishment of the legal infrastructure required for the effective supervision and audits of companies; the introduction of legal substantive infrastructure for companies; the legal quality of financial rental agreements in order to compensate companies for the damage they are due to their transactions; the adoption of the rights and the implementation of the rights; the implementation of subsidisation of subsidiaries, such as subsidation of subsidiary capitals in the Law, which are expected to be used in the form of subsidation of subsidiary, such as subsidation of subsidiary, subsidiary, subsidation of subsidation of subsidiary, subsidation of subsidation of subsidiary, subsidation of subsidiary services, such as subsidation of subsidation of subsidation of substantives. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. The Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations Act consists of seven parts. We have 54 substances, 5 temporary substances. I simply want to explain the purpose and scope of the law. The purpose of the law is to ensure more effective implementation of the procedures and foundations for financial rental, factoring and financing companies, which operate as a financial institution, as well as financial rental and financing companies, as well as financial rental, factoring and financing contracts. The scope of the law: financial rental, factoring and financing companies, factoring transactions made by banks, development and loans made by accession banks and investment banks are subject to these laws. The third article contains definitions. The Union has been appointed to hire activities, bills, tenants, rentals, boards, institutions, self-sources, companies, financial rentals, control and branch definitions. It is also intended to establish unity and to explain structures in terms envisioned by the law. The definition of the financial rental process is being adapted to international standards. In the second part, there are procedures for leave. Companies in Turkey have been allowed to make decisions in the same direction as at least five members of the BDK. In this way, companies are intended to provide legal infrastructure for effective surveillance and audits, and a system based on trust and stability in financial markets. The conditions for starting a company in Turkey are blocked from entering the sector in order to prevent the possibility of harming the sector by companies who are not capable of carrying out activities related to the institutional stage. The minimum-paying capital they should have is being made in line with the conditions of the day, with the minimum-paying amount of capital raised to 20 million Turkish liras in a bill. In addition, BDK is authorized to increase the amount according to the HFE rate explained by TÜK. However, it is intended to restore a transparent partnership structure that will not interfere with the effective control mechanisms of matter and companies. Circumstances sought by founders are assumed to be the qualifications required by the company's real-person founders if the founders, who have an active role in the administration, provide these conditions. It is also stated that these conditions apply to real or legal individuals who have 10 per cent or more shares in the company's corporate partner's capital, or who are in control. Permission to operate has been expressed in Article 7/7. Companies receiving the permit are expected to get permission from the BDDK to begin their work. In six months' time, the company's permits for non-employees are also invalidated. Branches have been expressed in Article 8. They are intended to go into organization outside the branch, to open an agency and thus provide an effective control area, and to go to organization outside the branch. Jobs and procedures that the company cannot do are included in Article 9. These companies are considered forbidden to perform activities, only for their own areas, and are allowed to operate by the amount of resources. Factoring companies are prohibited from collecting funds for deposits except for their own space, guarantees, bail, guarantees, and funding in Law 2499. At the same time, it has been ruled that these payments must be documented in order for the factoring companies to take over what they are owed. In addition, it has been predicted that financial rental and financing companies will not be able to conduct insurance activities except to mediate insurance in their field of operations and to provide insurance for people. The main contract amendments, share-taking and eras have been arranged in the matter. In the third part, the subject of executives has been processed. It is estimated that the executive boards of companies -- including the general manager -- will not be less than 3 people, but will become a natural member when the general manager is not present. It is also the first time that the company's top executives are required to receive vocational experience and license-level training. In Article 16 there is a provision of opposition. Companies are obliged to resolve companies in order to compensate for their losses, born or expected to be born from their transactions. The fourth part contains provisions concerning contracts. The definition of the financial rental agreement is made in Article 18: the contract for the renter to leave it to the tenant for rent at any price of rent, which he has purchased from a third person or from a tenant or from another tenant himself on the demand and the choice. The definition in the existing Law 3226 is the same. The subject of the financial rental agreement may be the subject of moving and renting unmovable goods. As for the matter of the matter, it is excluded from its scope. The current Law is also the same, but it is also arranged to be the subject of a financial rental agreement, which is either a complementary part of the investment or a plugin. In Article 20, the cost of financial rental is specified. I don't read all the material. The topic of encouragement has been discussed in Article 35. In investments under financial rental means, it is possible that the renter will be able to benefit from the incentives imposed on the subject of property. Article 38 of the Factoring contract has been issued. The article defined the factoring agreement and provided the following restrictions: The Factoring contract is required to be paid and arranged in writing with a bill issued from the sale of goods or services. In Article 39, there is a financing agreement. The financing agreement has been defined, and the following restrictions have been brought in. Funding companies are obliged to make a written general contract with vendors who provide the goods or services they will be loaned and to organise the financing contract in writing. In the fifth part, the Association of Financial Rentals, Factoring and Finance Corporations has recovered. It is envisioned to establish a union of financial rental, factoring and financing companies -- which are essential for membership -- for purposes such as financial and public institutional enterprises -- to meet their mutual needs, to control honesty and trust in each other and their clients, to maintain professional discipline and morality. The companies must join the Union within a month of the day they are allowed to operate. Article 41 has expressed the task and authority of the unit. Article 42 contains organs and status. In Article 43, there is a central invoice register. This has been envisioned that banks and factoring companies and banks will collect information on the purchases they are taking, including invoice information, in the risk centre or in a way that the union will see fit. In the sixth section, administrative fines were voiced. In the seventh part and in the last part, the amendments have been dealt with and the verdicts have been lifted. We have five temporary clauses. The implementation of existing regulations from these provisions is in Article 1: It is stated in Article 1 that the regulations laid down on the basis of these provisions will be enforced within a year until the regulations adopted according to this Law come into effect. The 2nd interim article has a period of orientation. In three years, it has been stated that the time may be extended for a year, in the event that there are reasons for which companies have to apply to these laws. Article 3 of the Interim Article 3 has been obliged to join the Union within a month of watching the date of the Union's operation before the law takes effect. In Article 4 of the Interim Article 4 it has been decided that the Article 3226 of Financial Rental Law No. 3226 will continue the implementation of the provisions for the duration of the period for the financial rental agreements held prior to the adoption of the law. In the interim Article 5 of Article 5, the provisions for adjudications have been made. From the date when this law was adopted, those involved in the procurement were expected to apply to the BDDK within six months if they want to continue their activities. Lastly, as of today, 31 companies are operating as a financial lease on the current financing companies, and their turnover is around $19 billion. The number of Factoring companies is 76 and their turnover is 16 billion liras. Financing companies are 13 and are now around $10 billion in transaction volumes. I believe the law will be beneficial and beneficial for our country, and I wish it to be a blessing. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0552par0093	Thank you, Mr. Irony. On behalf of the groups, Mr. Mehmet Günal is an Antalya MP. Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0553par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. I couldn't, and I forced myself to, because I'm still trying to collect my papers because I just arrived. I've just been surprised, my friends are talking, and I'm looking at... well, if it's so important, how many people are you watching this with? So you're insisting on a bill that's being passed at this time of night, even though it's a meeting of the National Party of Action? Do you want to be stubborn, Mr. Elitaş? We heard what you said on the way out. What kind of understanding is that, what kind of democracy is that, how disrespectful? I don't understand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0554par0099	You watch out for respect, though.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0553par0100	It's disrespectful. I'm not insulting you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0555par0101	Don't be coy, sir, will you? Don't let them interfere.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0553par0102	When we were leaving here, we heard you say, "Do you want to distance yourself?" We'll extend it, and we'll extend it till morning, and tomorrow morning, and the next morning until morning. We have no reservations, but you have to find the majority here every time. There will be no law here if you listen to what you call the most important law. Just because there are no citizens doesn't mean there's no TV, it's all in the report. People will read it tomorrow, people will read it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0556par0103	Talk about the law and everyone will listen. Look, Aslanoglu spoke and everyone listened.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0553par0104	I'll talk to him. There's no law here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0557par0105	Mr. President, will you step in?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0558par0106	Please, gentlemen, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0557par0107	Don't let him interrupt! Interfer, intervene.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0558par0109	I'm interfering, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0557par0110	Go ahead. Warning.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0558par0111	There's nothing else I can do. There's nothing I can do but say, "Shut up."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0557par0112	Warning, warning.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0559par0113	There's no law here. There's a bastion here, there's only one party in power. This place is over, democracy is over here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0560par0114	You're yelling at the bar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0557par0115	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0559par0116	I've only got justice here. He's not here, this isn't a democracy.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0560par0117	You're yelling at the bar. There's only one party power here, you say.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0561par0118	Mr. Günal, would you please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0559par0119	There's a middle game going on here, these MPs and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0561par0120	Address the House.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0559par0121	No willpower, no will to lift a finger. It's like a mid-game.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0562par0122	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0561par0123	Sir, I'd like to ask them to address the House without mutual discussion, there's nothing else I can do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0559par0124	I'm not insulting anyone, I'm telling you. I see it as disrespect, disrespect.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0561par0125	Please address the House.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0126	Wait a minute... wait a minute... Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0561par0128	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0129	AKP Group Deputy Chairman Hatib has insulted him. The bar keeps shouting. Let him take back what he said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0564par0130	I'm not taking it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0131	Let him take it back!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0564par0132	The bar keeps screaming. He's disrespecting me about my group. He can't say that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0565par0133	With all due respect, yes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0134	You'll get it back!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0565par0135	It's disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0136	You're being disrespectful, disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0566par0137	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0138	You're yelling at the bar from there!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0566par0139	It comes out of one's mouth.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0563par0140	And don't do any hand-to-hand moves.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0567par0141	That's disrespectful. I'm using the lightest.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0566par0142	A man is bound by his tongue!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0567par0143	I'm using the lightest, that's disrespectful.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0566par0144	Words come out of words.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0568par0145	Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0567par0146	That's disrespect, that's imposition. It's not law enforcement, it's imposition.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0566par0147	You ask the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0567par0148	You'll see the result of the imposition. That's an imposition.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0566par0149	That's where you connect!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0567par0150	It's not a law-making thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0569par0151	Guys, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0570par0152	Mr. President, a word of warning!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0569par0153	Mr. Günal, let's calm down, let's calm down, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0570par0154	Can you give me a heads-up?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0571par0155	It's an imposition.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0572par0156	You're bound by human language, you're bound by it. Your band listens to you! You talk, you talk!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0571par0158	I'm talking. What's everybody talking about, what do you guys talk about when you get out?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0573par0159	Mr. President, is there such a method?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0574par0160	He's interfering. Why don't you warn him?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0575par0161	I'm warning you, sir. What else can I say, Mr. Vural? I beg you, I warn you, what else can I say, Mr. Vural?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0574par0163	What are you warning me about? I'm warning you, it's not a warning. You shut up, you give your warning.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit05spe0575par0164	I'm calling a recess.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0575par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks on all of the Law Bill 239 rows. The commission is in place. The government is in place. On top of the bill, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0576par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I stand by what I'm saying, I didn't insult anyone, I just said it was disrespectful. That's not a very rude term. With all due respect, I've made a statement, but it's really not polite for Mr. Deputy Director of the Group to threaten us with such shouting in the bar. You can't just impose anything you want here. So we bring in power, we take out what we want, we run it at any time, we do it at any time. It doesn't mean we do it the way we want. Bring it if you need it. That's what we discuss when the law comes to the commission. You set up the subcommittee from time to time, you don't set it up from time to time, you do commission meetings from time to time when we're not there, and then you tweet tweets behind our backs. You're doing all this, but there's no way you can get a law out of here alone. I mean, it's not just for us to run this place, it's for you. So at least we have to make these laws by paying attention to the minimum courtesy. Our duty as opposition is to always say what's missing, to warn if there's a mistake, to make a motion. You accept it, you don't, we wish you would, but even if you don't, there's nothing more natural than us sharing these wrongs with the public -- I've said it yesterday, and we've talked about it again today, and we've talked about it yesterday -- and there's nothing more natural than us sharing them. There's no need to react to these things so impatiently. I know you're tired at this hour, but you asked for it, so let's move on. You said, "Well, then, we'll hang on." We're here, we're going to read, we're going to talk, we're going to work. If that's the case, we'll make our motions, we'll move on. Now, this is a draft bill from the 23rd term, and I told you when it came to the Commission -- we brought it back in the same order, as it was. On top of it, there are financial crises in the world... just like in the SEC bill. It's prepared, okay, fine, it's hard work, but sit down. What happens? We'll lose time... send it to the institutions again, see if there's any missing, breaches, anything. No, we're in a hurry. Now, we're talking about laws that are so important, the whole industry, but for some reason, things like this come with a dipping-up philosophy like a paint cube, we make a law. One day at the most, or two days at the most, if we sit down and argue, you'll lose another day, but it'll be healthy. Well, you see, you've got authority here, the KHKs have come out, not three days later... and I asked our Speaker today, because he should be defending the authority of the House and the authority of the legislature. I said, Mr. Secretary General. ▪ How many corrections have you made to us today in the laws issued under that authority? If he'd come out of here, would that be so? I mean, why are you afraid to discuss it, to spread it around in time? Is that even possible? Now, there's something that concerns the entire sector, so we've renovated something that's been nullified. Now, how does that work? So if we hadn't sat there and corrected things, there would have been a lot of flaws in the commission as it came in if it had gone by in a hurry. There's still something in it that we don't feel comfortable with, but it's a bill that's essential. In essence, we don't object to it, but we've ordered some of the provisions to be improved, some of them improved, with the motions given, but the joint, but individual, our friends have worked on it. But now that we're looking at it, there's still a lot of punishments, administrative fines, things like that here, in all the laws. We're looking, there's a lot of similar crimes, similar organizations and tools. We ask, "Friends, have you received an opinion from the Ministry of Justice?" No, we haven't been approached. He says he's a friend of ours at the Commission. Now, how is that a law-making technique? We get the fines... we say in every law, we say: "Look, let there be no injustice." You put in similar crimes, we put in similar punishments. If there's anything to be said here, let's send the Department of Justice a better expert or that commission, and let them take a look and come back. Now, there are prison and administrative fines on the bill's 42, 44, 46. This law has its own clauses and other legislation. ▪ There is no singleness that regulates such punishments. Let's see, we'll talk, we'll discuss. So we've done it in a hurry. The more we make sense of it, the more correcting it is, the better it is, the more recommended it is. Dear friends, democracy should contribute not only to power, but also to parliament's work, which is opposition. The Justice and Development Party, unfortunately, with the intoxication of power in the 3rd term, who can object to what we're doing? Even the bureaucrats, our friends, how do you know what you're getting involved in? They immediately start scolding him at the Commission or cutting him off. You haven't already asked, you haven't had an opinion, at least there's a saying: If there's anyone from the agency, tell us about it. After that, we look at it, our friends are immediately, directly or indirectly, attacking this friend, mutual eyebrows, eye, or indirect speech. Now, on the other hand, it's something that's come in, it's got a lot of tax regulations in it. We're looking at exceptions and tax detection, we're arguing, the Finance Ministry says: "We don't agree. We'll talk about it later." After that, we don't have a minister. We can't get involved. I don't understand what kind of understanding that is. This bill, it's not an offer, it's an offer, it's an offer, it's our friends, but the bill goes through the Council of Ministers, and all the ministers have signatures. I mean, it's one thing if you can't talk before you get there, or if they don't get along when you're signed, I don't get it. One lack of coordination, one friend says something else, the other says something else. I mean, I understand this argument between you two, but when he gets here, there's got to be a compromise. For example, about the professional troops, our friends, representatives of the Chambers and Stock Exchanges Association came in, they said some things about the insurance people, there's a casting board. They said, "Our friends can work under us too, there's not a lot of rooms." Whatever happened, there were other compromises. So we, as a result, as the National Movement Party, don't approve of setting up so many different boards, so many higher forces. So we think that each issue should be united by separate upper boards, but I also said that this work should be considered with the SEC Law. We now have a Capital Markets Association there, but these financial institutions are separate, capital markets are separate, the Banks Association is multi-united. Well, we're building this, but it's increasing our lack of coordination. On the one hand, there's a clause about the contractors again. We're giving them direct authority, as if they've crossed over, sir, there's no judgment there, there's no judgment here, our friends said. Now, they need to be organized in a fair manner, and they need to be co-ordinated between institutions while these laws are being passed, but we're looking at that co-ordinating within the economy administration -- Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, he's here -- but we're also looking at this -- and a newspaper report says, "wrong governance, pay the public." I'm looking at it as if it's a newspaper that's closest to the Prime Minister and its executives are the two presidents of the Central Bank who are looking at the goal, and they've said the things we're saying are very polite. Sir, this is how the Central Bank keeps the interest high so it can clear the way for the runners. Now, well, with that understanding, what's a brake on one side and a gas debate on the other? So if there's a hole in the steering wheel, the driver at the wheel has a driver's license, but what if you give him a truck? I mean, if we can't even coordinate this, we've sat down, we've met, one of our friends says something else, the other one says, I don't object to it, it's natural, but we've been here before. They say, we're looking, but there's no official correspondence, there's no opinion. I'm really surprised, it could be a law. For example, just last week, we lived in the SEC Law. The Minister is here. It came at the last minute. We're coming to corporateize the Istanbul Stock Exchange, which could be a law. Okay, you need it; yes, we can discuss its philosophy, but it's -- it's about -- it's a one-of-a-kind piece of material. At the last moment, we were looking into it... and I asked him when he was here. We have friends who aren't here, but they're doing a lot of this kind of work, they're doing a lot of business, they're doing a lot of work, they're doing a lot of rotations, and at the last moment, we realized that some of the land in the Resort has been handed over to the TOKI for free. Now, isn't that supposed to go through a filter? He didn't come on the subcommittee, he's coming on the top commission at the last second, there's already a meeting down there, there's another meeting on the other side, an offer coming and going. It's not a law-making technique, that's what I'm trying to tell you. It's an imposition, then, to smuggle stuff out of a fire at the last second. We're asking, now, can that happen, guys? He wrote his island, his parcel, didn't write his square meter, so I suspect. Why don't you write it down? Real estate information, if you're handing it over, wouldn't a person write a square meter? If you do a transaction, wouldn't you write down his island, his parcel, and his square foot while you're processing the real estate? We're asking, almost 160 acres total of six or seven pieces of land. So this has to go through a filter, so the last-minute motion has nothing to do with the proposal or the bill. If it is to be written into the relevant institutions -- which institutions are relevant -- to get their views on the matter, then it should be included in the bill, if it is to be entered into the Council of Ministers. That's all we're saying. With this imposition, we did it, we did it. We brought it in at the last minute, we put it on. E, we're going to take it off. We're missing it, there's trouble. Look, we've discussed a lot of things here before. We've had our reviews, we've had our heavy debates, because it's normal for a lot of our friends to have these unhealthy conditions and to have an increased response. We started at 10:00 a.m., Mr. Elitaş, the budget was still going on, so I came down here twice, and I gave two speeches. Now, we have to warn you, but we have to talk upstairs. I'm not telling you about our meeting, we've already had an ongoing meeting with the Plan Budget Commission. Our other friends are separate, and those MPs can leave when they're done with their program. Now, under the circumstances, we'll be working at the Budget Commission again tomorrow at 10:00 p.m. You'll go to sleep, even if it's all the way to the morning prayer. Have a heart, have a conscience! So it's just gonna be set up for you? These friends of ours will be working tomorrow. Since this morning, the Justice and Development Party, CHP, MPP, all of us are working. I'm sorry, there are times when we don't have time to go to the bathroom. So, okay, so what do you expect from us now, under the circumstances? So what is your environment, what is your means, what is your respect?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0577par0017	You've been talking about this for ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0576par0018	No, but that's where we need to talk, not the same thing. I'm giving you the gist of the matter. Then, of course, when you're angry, you're reacting to us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0577par0020	You could've said that in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0576par0021	I can't do it, you go out, you tell me in two minutes. I'm just doing it so I can talk a little bit softer, or a little bit more, since we're low on blood sugar now -- especially if I'm speeding up, I'm talking harder, so I'm talking slow. Dear friends, I've done so, I've done so. Not by reason, not by stubbornness, we'll make more laws. Up there, the budget... once, that's just wrong. The Plan and Budget Commission are there to discuss budgets, and you bring in all the laws that come out of Plan Budget, so let's get another commission. You've put the Capital Market Law in front of us, and we'll talk about it. You say, 128+10, 158. Well, we're already here. If you sit down, then in order, we will work, we will sit, we will talk, we are already on watch. But now, when I say disrespect, that's not all I'm saying, Mr. Elitas. There's got to be a work ethic here. We make laws that regulate people's honor, dignity, working conditions, but as congressmen, we don't organise a human working environment. Is that even possible? I mean, what could be more natural than saying that? No, if you work under these conditions, there'll be fights and fights. People, everyone has blood pressure, they have problems at home, they're coming, they're bored, they're tired. So, let's sit this one out in my mind, and let's not do this until the end, with a good working schedule. We take it out, the financial institutions have a few important items here, and they listen to our friends, they don't listen... and yesterday, you imposed the EXPO, it's missing. What do we do? We have no choice but to complain to our people. If that's what you say we'll do with the number of fingers... but don't stop us from complaining, dear. Let us make a sound, so why are you disobeying us? Do we have any other rights? We're talking here, there's no TV, there's nothing going on. I mean, we're talking to ourselves, so bear with him, it's nothing. I mean, you've already squeezed us, so, dear friends, it's not right to make the law under these circumstances. First of all, we have sworn to uphold everyone's rights and to uphold the Constitution. The most basic things of the Constitution -- the consensus board is working -- we tell stories to everyone about basic rights and homework, human rights, working conditions. So let's protect our rights first, otherwise we won't be able to work well from here. I remind you again that power and opposition are one and all elements of democracy, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0578par0027	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0579par0028	Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0578par0029	Sir, we are now discussing the report of the Plan and Budget Commission. As is known, the bill and proposals are transferred to presidential commissions, and commissions organise reports on these laws and proposals. Thus, the main commission as commissions that should be attached to this report has been referred to as the Plan and Budget Commission, the Oversight Commission, the Justice Commission; Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission. As it is known, there is no ruling in the report on what these commissions have decided on following this call regarding these commissions, so this report is not a computational report. So what happened? Did the commissioner or did he say he wasn't going to see her? So what did he see? There is no information in the report on this, so this report is not a computational report. In that respect, it is not possible to discuss a report on an unrestrained report in such a manner that the wills of the presidential commissions are not determined at this stage, since a report has been discussed. In that regard, the report, which ensures that the conduct of these subcommittee commissions on this issue, should be complied. I'm interviewing the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0580par0030	Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0579par0031	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0580par0032	This matter has been arranged if we look at Article 23 of the Civil Code. The main commissions and subsidiaries have been sent to the commissions. In Article 23 of the Civil Charter, if the secondary commissions give their opinion on their part, the main commissions are free to consider and report. However, according to the final provisions of Article 23 of the Interior Charter, the commissions have prepared a commission report due to their failure to report the information on the issue to the main commission if they do not report it to the main commission during the period of the commission, since the Plan did not send information to the Budget Commission, Justice, Industry and other commissions, and have submitted it to the information of the Grand Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0581par0034	Sir, the information on these is not in the report. If the view is not reported, the interview is not reported. It is called, it is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0580par0035	The 23rd Amendment is very clear and clear, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0581par0036	Therefore, we do not expect to hear from the AKP Group Deputy Chairman, but from the commission that prepares the commission report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0580par0037	The AKP Group Deputy Chairman is not reporting, but the Civil Code 23 is clear and clear.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0581par0038	Did he report it or not? He didn't report it on time, we didn't wait ten days as commissions, we got it on the fifth day. There's no sacrilegious explanation in the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0582par0039	Now, sir, as far as I'm concerned, it's possible that the original commission will file a report and send it to the General Assembly unless the commission meets in ten days and gives an opinion. They say the same thing happened here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0581par0040	On which date was sent to the secondary commissions, the original commission on the commissions, which was collected at the time, should have information in the report on these issues. I don't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0583par0041	There's information in the report, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0581par0042	We're discussing the report, sir, we're discussing the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0583par0043	There's information in the report, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0584par0044	How do we know that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0583par0045	If we look at the report, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0584par0046	How do we know that? Was the ten-day deadline expected? What was the opinion after that? How do we know that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0585par0047	What dates?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0586par0048	Sir, he was sent to the commissions on March 30, 2012.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0585par0049	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0586par0050	On April 9, 2012...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0587par0051	It was sent to the subcommittee.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0586par0052	...was sent to the subcommittee, and in the last term, the Commission negotiated the report from there and sent it here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0588par0053	I see.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0589par0054	What opinion did they give?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0588par0055	Well, then, Mr. President, I'd like to open up a legal debate because the commission reports need to be sedated.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0590par0056	In the end...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0588par0057	It's not being read because the commission report has been distributed, so I'd like a word against your position.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0591par0058	In favor of your attitude, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0592par0059	Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, against him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0593par0060	Recep Special in Lehte, Mustafa Elitaş; Mr. Vural against him, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Vural is the first speaker to testify against him. Here you go, Mr. Vural. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0594par0067	Mr. President, this procedure is not in order.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0593par0068	Which...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0594par0069	For the word must be spoken in favour and against. In this regard, you have acted out of order. First of all, after you've finished the procedure discussion on the order of this promise, you can open a discussion on the subject.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0593par0070	Yes, sir. In Polish, Mr. Recep Private, Isparta.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0594par0072	No, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0593par0073	You said lethte.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0595par0074	You guys didn't do the line right. The one who speaks in favor next, he says.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0594par0075	Sir, I have stated that I do not approve of your application of the order of the promise. I want your word on your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0593par0076	No, I'm fixing it, and I promise in favor, you asked for it. There's nothing else to do. So you didn't criticize him, you criticised him for being in favor. And I promise to be in favor. Any further questions, sir? Mr. Recep Special, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0596par0079	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favour of the National Movement Party's position at which it has been discussed that it has not come to the agenda of the General Assembly as a report in accordance with the procedure of the bill we're discussing. Now, it's written in the Civil Code how to view the bill and its proposals. Parliamentary office transfers the bill and proposals to the commissions, sometimes to the main commissions, sometimes to the subcommittee commissions. In practice, he usually doesn't write up a report on secondary commissions. The failure of Tali commissions to prepare these reports does not interfere with the commission's work, its reporting, its meeting. The last two jokes of the Article 23 of the Civil Charter are: If the commissions are not specified in which direction or in which they are to comment on the articles, these commissions report their views on the issues they see about them. The last joke is that there is no opinion given during the duration of the July Commission; it does not prevent the original commission from writing the report. I think that it is so obvious, that the report is invalid in the face of such a yellow Civil Charter decree, that it can be explained in the case of the National Movement Party. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0597par0083	What's that got to do with anything? You went out there as a lawyer, say something in the name of the law.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0598par0084	You're supposed to go to the baths and talk about sweating!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0599par0085	Sloppy man, you're not ashamed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0600par0086	Mr. Private, thank you. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu, as a matter of fact, sir. In three minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0601par0089	Mr. President, I'm not against you, but there are things I'm against. Dear friends, I am an open man. I'm very sad. I'm very sorry that things have happened this way. I'm deeply disturbed by my conscience. On Tuesday, Mr. Shandır, me and Mr. Elitaş went to the Advisory Board. On Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, I asked for counseling from the AKP Group, and I got it from him. When I asked him what laws would be discussed, he said, "EXPO, Public Contract and Financial Rentals." In fact, I had a poor suggestion, and I said, if I were you, I'd do all three by the end of Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. If one of them ends early, for example, yesterday, early Tuesday, but it didn't go on because it hasn't been decided. Mr. Chancer said: "Only, we have dinner on Thursday."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0602par0091	Our group meeting...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0601par0092	Yeah, I mean, we have a meeting. Mr. Elitaş said, "What do you mean, we'll respect it to the end?" That's what happened that day. Then, Tuesday night, sorry... since there was no follow-up with EXPO last night, the Council of Counsellor's decision didn't show up, and so did EXPO. I, of course, landed at least ten times today. We're in the budget, guys. When we're in the budget, there's once we're in there doing budget negotiations, and there's a law on the Budget Commission, and we're 50 pieces. Have some pity on us. Have some pity on us. Go there, come here, go there... and we have a responsibility. Now, I, in fact, as part of my responsibility, came, it was about three o'clock, and it was three, and I said, "Dear Elitaş, I'm going to arrange my friends upstairs, myself, my speakers, all of them. At a quarter to seven, Mr. Oktay said we'd leave. You have a promise to Elitas, okay? Let's finish the EXPO thing. I even calculated that watch. The BDP has a council of advisors. I said, "It ends now at 3:30." So when I did my normal calculations, that law was over by 6:30. Did he do the normal math, the whole thing, the individuals, well, whatever, he even said to me, "Don't ask the question." I said, "I can't stop it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0603par0096	I said, "Let's get it over with sooner."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0601par0097	Oh, it's early... I said I can't stop anyone from asking... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's the thing for him once, that's the truth of it, but then when I'm not here, because you've made me witness -- I don't know what happened when I wasn't here -- that's what's been said to me. You said, "I respect the food of the MHP." But I don't know what happened after that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0604par0101	Thank you, Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu. Now, in favor of Mr. Mustafa Elitaş. Here you go, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0106	Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Shandır, Mr. Aslanoglu has made a full statement in the presence of our Speaker of Parliament. On the way out, he said the same thing: change the group proposal, take this group proposal to the end of the Financial Rental Law. Let's go as far as we can on Tuesday as we can on Wednesday. He even said yesterday: "Why didn't you buy it like that on Wednesday? If you had taken it, we would have finished the Public Contract Act. We said: Tomorrow will be. We'll do this thing tomorrow: Mr. Aslanoglu had a reservations about a clause, Mr. Secretary was given three-four-point motions and evaluated. Mr. Aslanoglu, I'll leave it to you to appreciate that you've given up on that withdrawal of substance...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0606par0107	Mr. Secretary said he was going to...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0108	He said he'd look into it, and he said it today.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0606par0109	No, no, then...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0110	He expressed appreciation, and it worked the same way. Yesterday and today, in our meeting with Mr. Shandir, we said, "Mr. Şandir, we will remove this law from the Public Contraction Act. Let's go to the other article in this frame. Aslanoglu said: "I am sending my friends. I am sending them." I said, "All right." Mevlüt Bey, then let's skip the question-and-answer part, finish at five, finish at six. But he said, "I can't promise."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0606par0111	I can't.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0112	I said you're right. Mr. Shandır, yesterday and today, I said, Mr. Shandır, your group has a meeting, it is not polite for us to continue. So let's not go on with this. We don't have a problem with this law anyway, so go ahead. He said when he left.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0606par0113	I don't know about that, I wasn't there after that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0114	When I left the Speaker's side. I said, Mr. Shandır, let's meet tomorrow, as a courtesy, we don't think it's appropriate for this to happen. And today at six thirty, we thought the Public Contraction Act would be over, but it's ten o'clock, the Public Contraction Act doesn't end, it opens up the procedural debates and so on. Now, dear friends, look, what I'm trying to say is, Dear Günal, dear friends, we...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0607par0116	Why all the arguments?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0117	I don't know why.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0607par0118	How can you not know?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0119	Maybe, maybe, guys. Look, there's no questions, there's no answers, there may be issues related to this procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0608par0120	Look, Mr. Mustafa, some of the questions have been dropped, and it's not over, brother.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0121	Our friends... look, there's been a lot of tension. We, the group's vice president, have tried to appease our friends. As a matter of fact, our other friends have shown the same zeal, to prevent unpleasant events from happening, we, as vice president of the group, have prevented them, but the testimony of Mr. Shandir, which I've told Mr. Shandir here, in the formal debate. That five or six minutes ago, when one of our congressman friends stopped talking here, Mr. Shandir, I said, are you trying to stop what we agreed, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing? Wait a minute, let's get this over with. But Mr. Chancer isn't here right now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0608par0122	Mr. Mustafa, some questions have been taken, taken away.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0123	Look, dear lawmakers, we stand by what we say. Mr. Şandir: We don't have anything to do with this law, so you can continue. I said Mr. Aslanoglu expressed it in the same way, it would be rude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0609par0125	I'm not there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0126	No, no, about that. That's right, you're not there. I thought it would be rude of us to continue this work. I insisted, but what I'm saying today is, when do we take out the Public Contraction Act? Like he said, there's a BDP Group Proposal at four o'clock. Let's not go on, he said, and his words don't come in. And the Minister said, "I have a plane. Should I stop it?" All right, Mr. Secretary, you get your plane ready and go. But I don't know what happened, what ended, how it happened...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0609par0127	Then why did you bring this? Why did you bring the financial lease?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0128	Look, valuable lawmakers, if there's any tension here, if you're leaving our fellow lawmakers with all of this tension, and you're expecting us to stand behind every word we make, every word we make, you're wrong. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Shandir. That's what we talked about, but none of our conversation happened. I'd like to, I'd like to have Mr. Shandır here. At six o'clock, at five and a half, I asked Mr. Shandir. I said, "What are we doing? Are we breaking a deal?" All right, let's finish this then... he said, but Mr. Shandir is gone. Now, let's get down to the procedural debate. Look, the esteemed lawmakers, about where, what happened... If Mr. Şandir is on the phone, we were with Mr. Shandir for five nights and six days, we traveled together for twenty hours a day, if Mr. Shangdir is on the phone, he's lying to you on the phone. If he says so, I don't approve of any rights. Look, we were together for five nights, six days, at least 15 hours.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0610par0132	Where? Where, Mr. Elitaş, where, where?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0133	Mr. Chancer knows, everyone knows where we are.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0610par0134	On the pilgrimage?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0135	Yeah, we were on a pilgrimage.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0610par0136	Tell me about it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0137	We were together for five nights, six days, at least fifteen hours.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0611par0138	He says don't lie, he's lying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0139	If Mr. Chancer, here's the confirmation, but only here with us... even friends have heard it. I told you at the group meeting today, I told you in group management, I said, friends, we made a gentleman's agreement, we'll close this once the Public Contraction Act is over. When will it be over? Ends at five, ends at six. Last-minute BDP group proposal. We said it's not over at five, it's over at six. That's what we told all our congressman friends. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, it was really hard to accuse us of violence, violence, injustice, or, I don't know, what I said, I don't remember, Mr. Günal, but disrespecting us on the way out here. Because when you accused me of a desecration that I didn't do, believe me, I showed a reflex. It wasn't supposed to be. I didn't mind Mr. Günal saying, "You've done this in a violent way." Because I explained that he said that because he didn't know what was going on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0141	But when I was leaving, after closing, do you want to distance yourself? I heard him say.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0142	What, extend...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0143	Let's get out of here. I heard him leave, after the fight.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0144	No, when?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0145	After the break...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0146	No, I said that, no, it's true...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0147	You're dragging it out, and I'm...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0148	I said, "Do you want to extend it?" I said that, and that's exactly what I said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0149	That's what I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0150	You want to extend it, I already told you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0151	Give it to me, okay.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0152	I already asked you, Mr. Shandir, if you want to extend it. That's right, you're confirming me. He said no.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0153	Now, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0154	No, he said. But at ten o'clock, Mr. Günal, that bill was due to end at five o'clock, and it ended at ten o'clock.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0612par0155	You're being stubborn. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0613par0156	Friend, we left at seven...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0157	Now, look, dear lawmakers, let's come to the matter of the Civil Code, the current procedure debate. Article 23 of the Civil Code is clear and clear. If you read Article 23 of the Civil Code, there is no need for information from the President or to help others in this regard. Here's the 23th article. I worked for the Plan and Budget Commission for four years. We went to work in the Plan and Budget Commission all day; Mr. Günal, Mr. Aslanoglu, we worked all morning in the Plan and Budget Commission, we came, we worked here. I know how hard the Plan and Budget Commission operates. Thank you, you're contributing. You have your contribution to this law, and we thank them. But the precious MPs, we may have a fight, we may have a noise, we may not agree, our quarrels may face each other, but I propose that, regardless of what happens, we must stand by our promise. We can fight all kinds of fights, we can have all kinds of reactions, but whatever the outcome, we have to stick to our promise. The discipline that we receive, no matter what circumstances, no matter where it comes, must stand by its word. This is the discipline that we receive from our elders, from our profession. We can make that promise come into practice, and we can ask others to. Mr. President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to make this statement. Mr. Aslanoglu, you've told me exactly, and I want to thank you for telling me exactly what we've been talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0614par0161	I don't know what's going on after three o'clock.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0605par0162	You've told us exactly what we're talking about. I say, you've told us exactly what we're talking about.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0163	Dear Elitaş, thank you. Mr. Vural, please, sir. I'll give you five minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0616par0166	Mr. President, you gave me three minutes before the procedural debate, and then you gave me five more minutes. Look, you don't promise us anything as we speak, you give him five more minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0167	Sir, I'll give it to the friends who want it, Mr. Young, please remain calm and sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0616par0168	You're acting on your own terms, so when it's the AKP Group, you're giving it five minutes more.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0169	There's been some tension, and I'm trying to soften it up. Please don't stretch, sit down, I'll give it to our friend, don't worry. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0617par0172	How much did you give to those who used it in favor and against you before this?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0618par0173	You gave me three minutes each.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0174	Three minutes each...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0617par0175	This practice is against the Civil Code, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0176	Mr. Vural, I'm trying to lighten the mood.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0617par0177	There's no need to soften it up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0178	I know... it's not necessary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0617par0179	There's no need to soften it up. You use Persilmatic to soften things up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0180	I didn't interrupt Farlut Aslanoglu. I'm not cutting either. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0617par0181	Mr. President, it's none of my business. What I'm saying is that what you're doing right now, what you're doing with words, what you're doing with time, is against procedure. Therefore, let this attitude be first discussed about your attitude toward time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0619par0182	Mr. President, the 60th article of the Civil Code is clear.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0183	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0617par0184	This isn't a crossing inn, you can't run it on your own. If he says three minutes each, you give him three. Five minutes to that, eight minutes to that, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0185	No. Now, Mr. Vural, will you listen to me for a minute? I didn't interrupt any of them, and I won't interrupt any of you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0620par0189	Sir, it doesn't matter whether you cut it or not, I say: How many minutes have you given to those before you? I gave you three minutes. Is it true?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0190	Right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0620par0191	If that's true, what authority do you give me?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0192	Sir, since Mr. Elitaş has been talking for seven minutes, I'd like you to talk to him if you'd like.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0621par0193	So do I, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0194	Look, it says here: "The repair is in the president's discretion not to exceed the minute." I made your friends talk as much as they wanted to stop interrupting. That's all there is to it, nothing more.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0622par0195	That's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0196	Yes, sir, I have it right here. It's in the president's discretion until the minute of the repair, he says. If he's not talking, I can't force him to talk. He finished in three minutes, Aslanoglu. He finished in seven minutes. And I just said to you, "Whatever time he's finishing, let him talk." Until ten...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0622par0197	Are we negotiating? You're negotiating. It's like you're doing a bidding job!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0615par0198	It's not a negotiation. It's a matter of ten minutes. It says here, the matter is open.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0623par0199	No, no, no! You can't run this place like this.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0622par0200	Mayor, how many minutes did you give him?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0624par0201	Mr. President, this is so unfair!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0625par0202	Mr. President, you're inequality between parties!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0203	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0627par0204	No, Mr. President, the matter is not open here. He says he can give you ten minutes in the legal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0205	Right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0628par0206	So give it to him!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0627par0207	So you're going to set the time you're giving here for the pros and cons. I don't like Mevlüt Aslanoglu, three minutes; I can't tell him anything, seven minutes, ten minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0208	There's no such thing. Look, don't go astray from what I'm saying. What I'm saying is, friends, there's a tension in the air, so let them talk, don't interrupt. I said, "Don't interrupt." After three minutes I didn't interrupt Mr. Aslanoglu, do I have to tell you to talk?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0627par0209	Why didn't you give it to him?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0210	Now, I didn't call out who was talking. That's what I'm telling you and the other one, that's what it's all about.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0627par0211	You gave him ten minutes?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0212	Seven minutes, sir, seven minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0627par0213	If I talk...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0214	Sir, I gave him three minutes and I didn't cut any of them. You're welcome, you're welcome.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0629par0216	He says if he talks, he won't stop. Talk till ten, talk for fifteen minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0217	I gave him three minutes, and I didn't cut him off.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0629par0218	If we talk, he'll be free in ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0630par0219	Ten minutes, ten minutes... ten minutes for the procedural debate.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0626par0220	Now, as much as you would like to speak, Mr. Elitaş, speak in ten minutes, and I will not interrupt you. Go ahead and talk.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0631par0222	President, you're not giving it away! Just give it 15 minutes!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0223	Mr. President, could you start with the rest of the time?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0633par0224	Mr. President, did you start the clock? Bring him in in ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0225	Start with the rest of the time, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0634par0226	It's started!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0227	Mr. President, is the clock starting? [[Rumbles and applause from the AK PARTY!]] Are you writing applause from the AKP Group?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0634par0230	Read all about it, write all about it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0231	Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0635par0232	Mr. President, you're going to continue this practice, you're going to continue ten minutes in the procedure debate. You can't do it anymore!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0233	Of course, that's the future of unprincipled politics. So I guess you all know what it's called when you make a promise and don't stand up for it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0636par0234	That's exactly what it's called.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0235	And I know you're not standing up for it right now, and I know you know it. The truth has been delivered.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0636par0236	That's right, they're called liars who don't stand up for what they say.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0237	We've already identified the mufter before because it's registered. So, that's what I'm... that's what I'm going to open up about. Sir, it's like this... when there are certain issues between parties, of course, it's discussed, it's explained, and it's discussed in mutual understanding. It's the only way we can get the coven to work. Now that I've discussed this report, I'm going to consider this part of the procedure debate, and then I'm going to ask for a word about Mr. Elitas, and you're going to write it down, because you're saying something there, and then you're going to give up, so let's just remember that I'm asking for a word because I'm being bullied, okay?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0636par0238	You can't do this in advance.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0239	Now, this report says that the Justice Commission has been transferred to the Industrial Trade Commission. Now, is there any information on what these commissions are doing in this report?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0636par0240	No. It wasn't on the other Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0241	Is there, Mr. President? No. So since these commissions were not met on time or have indicated they would not give an opinion, our Commission has made an assessment. That's what I'm looking for. In Article 23 of the Civil Charter of this, sir, he can take ten days of commissions, and do these things... of course, the provisions of the Interior Charter. I'm interviewing the report. I'll read it in the report: these subcommittees, these commissions, what did they do, why didn't they give an opinion? Because it's expired? Because he said he wouldn't give me an opinion? So that's not what's in this report. There's no point in saying, "That's the case, that's how it is, that's how it is, when you're standing here and discussing a report while you're not in this report. I'm looking at the report, it's not in the report. Mr. President, is it in the report? Is there? No. So what I'm saying is, we've discussed this before -- remember -- and we've asked the people on the commission to assess the outcome of these commissions in the commission report. We've said it over and over again. Laws and Decisions are here, reports are here. I'll read the report as to what Article of the Civil Charter of a transfer. In that respect, I'm looking for... why am I looking for this? Because I also have deputies on the Justice Commission in Industry, Trade, Information, Technology Commission. I have to find out why a bill is not discussed by these MPs. That's the point of the report. In that sense, the report was not complied. This report is required to include transactions, transfers, and, according to it, talk at the General Assembly. In that respect, since that's not what's in this report, I'm asking for the outcome. Otherwise, it happened on this date, which happened on this date, and it's easy to rule on issues that are not in the report, but I'm seeing the report, and my lawmakers are looking at the report, and they say, "The Justice Commission has been transferred, but we haven't heard from them." I ask the lawmakers in the Industry, Trade Commission, and they say, "We don't know anything about it." Now, in this case, the commissions need to be included in this commission report, because the Commissioner is already negotiating on Mr. President's wire transfer. Tali also reports on the President's wire transfer on the commissions.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0637par0242	There's been a meeting at the Industrial Commission, it's unfinished.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0243	Oh, yeah?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0637par0244	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0245	That's interesting, too.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0637par0246	His first meeting was held, and then he referred it to the subcommittee of the Budget Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0247	Now, Mr. President, look, the Industrial Commission is starting to meet, and it's unfinished. How's that? So what happened? So what did that commission say? Look, if there is such a thing, really, in this respect of this report, even though the commission has put it on the agenda and hasn't made a statement about it -- what opinion did the commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have on a job that was under control? In that case, your presidency should have a statement of will. I need to see this. In that sense, we're saying that this report has not been complied. Now, if a report like this came up, for example, if a subcommittee had a meeting about it, sent a report, and the actual commission didn't consider it, it would be a very serious problem. In that sense, we always say that commission reports should be sari; they should be clear; we should see what commissions are doing, we should know what commissions are doing. Because my congressman doesn't know until my dear friends are called to a commission meeting. Now, if he's been transferred to the Industrial Trade Commission, we don't know when this will be discussed without a call to the MP. In that regard, they need to be made clear in the report of this principal commission. My dear friends, there's no need to turn it around like that. Yes, thank God, in honor of our party, which was shut down during the revolution, we had our group meeting this evening about the 10th General Assembly because we didn't do it on Tuesday, and we wanted such a will to be used because we couldn't express our opinion and opinions on the agenda of the House. Sir, as soon as this is over... it's not over till ten. So what happens? Mrs. Ayþenur, what will happen if it is? So it's true that you ignore any desire for a party group to uphold its rights, its law?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0638par0251	No, we didn't ignore it, don't falsify it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0252	So what happened? What are we seeing now?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0638par0253	Please, don't falsify it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0632par0254	What are we talking about right now?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0639par0255	The counseling board.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0638par0256	You didn't go to the front desk. You broke our agreement, you're living the consequences of disobeying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0640par0257	Oh, admit it, it's on the record.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0641par0258	All right, all right. But I'll tell you something: we're going to get out of here, you can get out of here. I made the phone call to confirm that the person who said it was a lie.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0642par0259	Let him speak for himself.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0643par0260	I was with him five nights and six days, at least fifteen hours.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0641par0261	And to that end, the statement is now....... until this hour, when it's finished by five....... if it's finished by this time..... what if we give our will to you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0643par0262	Call Mr. Shandır. I was with him for five nights and six days.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0641par0263	We say we go to seven, we work till seven, it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0643par0264	I don't think Mr. Shandır is lying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0641par0265	Oh, what the hell. It doesn't matter. What the hell. We're not a group to oppose it; we know how to uphold our rights, our law. We'll come, we'll work till morning. But, dear lawmakers, just so you know, just so you know, It's not worth... There's a special MP who's been calling this meeting about Kurulta. I guess he just wants to finish his assignment and go to the bath and sweat it out. So I guess he's going to take these off and join the bath in Redhall. He's probably in a hurry. That's what the rush is all about.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0644par0267	Some dirt can't be washed away by floods, Mr. Oktay.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0643par0268	You're in a lot of water, but you're not getting clean...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0644par0269	Who? Why are you answering?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0643par0270	Why are you offended? They've got so much dirt they can't even get clean in the water.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0644par0271	Yeah, that's what I said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0645par0272	You said as much as you wanted.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0646par0273	It's been ten minutes, you want more?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0645par0274	No, you said as much as you wanted. That's what you said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0646par0275	No, I didn't say as much as you wanted. In ten minutes, according to the Civil Code. So we gave him his maximum here, in ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0647par0276	And there was teasing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0646par0277	No, no. I only said it because the others didn't talk.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0648par0278	That's all there is to it. So at this point where we're here today, you can make the law, we're here. We're going to continue our struggle, but we're going to continue a meeting where you say you're not really going to be from seven o'clock, and then we're going to go ahead with the law, and then we're going to talk about...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0649par0279	It's not like that, it's not like that...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0648par0280	I'll pass it on to your consciences. Tomorrow's blessed Friday, today's Friday night. I entrust it to your consciences, and to all of you, my respects.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0650par0283	Thank you, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0651par0284	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0650par0285	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0651par0286	Mr. President, the honorable speaker has expressed something to me about talking on a phone that I didn't say. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to fix it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0650par0287	In two minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0651par0290	Dear friends, in our discussion, there is no motion, there is a certain number of talks, they will end quickly in that frame, but if you come here and pull the pin, if you try to detonate the bomb, it's not finished by seven o'clock, but we told you until seven o'clock. It's not fair to say, "It's not fair to say, it's not fair." What we talked about, it'll be a conversation; there'll be a fight, there'll be noise, it'll be over. You come in here and there's no foil, you come in here without an egg, you pull the pin, you detonate the bomb, it's wrong to do what's done. That's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0652par0291	Mr. Elitaş, if you had finished, we wouldn't be here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0651par0292	I'll say it again. If the person on the phone is Mr. Shandir, who I'm sitting at my desk, Mr. Şandir comes up and says, "What are we doing tomorrow?" He says, "If you'd like to continue, let's meet tomorrow. Let's meet tomorrow." He's lying. If he says, I don't approve my right, one.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0653par0293	What about these people's rights?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0652par0294	They don't allow it either, so what?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0651par0295	Second of all, there was another incident recently. Mr. President took a break, and he said, "Let's not talk about Fezleke, let's talk about the group proposals, because our Mr. President is going to be here at the hearing. We, as a courtesy to the president of a political party, started a business, despite it being contrary to the Internal Charter, discussed the group proposal, and we said, "Let's postpone it until Mr. President arrives at five o'clock." But Mr. President General didn't come, he was wrongly expressed. He stated that he would not come, but that a term shaped like "common" had come to a different point. Look, we stand by our promises to the end. Where do you have it? Under any circumstances, we stand by my word to the end. If this happens, if this happens... he says, "What do we do, it's up to seven." He says, "It's up to seven." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0654par0299	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. My dear friends, the Commission has an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0655par0303	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement about what Mr. Vural is talking about here, if I may. On 30/3/2012, this law was transferred to the commissions by Parliament Speaker. As the main commission, the Plan was transferred to the Budget Commission and to the Justice Commission and the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission as a commission. We started discussing this law on April 10, 2012. So, there's a ten-day window. In that ten-day period, if they don't hand over their reports, the original commission will begin their talks, regardless of whether or not they'll give it. That's the way it is, that's the way it is. We've drawn up this report in this frame and presented it to the Speakership, and it's been published. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0656par0306	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0657par0307	Mr. President, this is not in the report that Mr. President has expressed. So you didn't put that in the report, I'm expressing it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0656par0308	Excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0658par0309	Mr. President, review all reports, none of them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0656par0310	If you'll excuse me. As stated on the 42nd page of the commission report, the bill was transferred to the secondary and main commissions on 30/3/2012. The main commission, the Plan Budget Commission, discussed the bill at its meeting at 10/4/2012. And since ten days passed, he sent his report and sent it to the rest of them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0659par0312	Yes, Mr. President, and I say that should be in the report. You're an officer in charge of overseeing the House Commissions. So we say: It's about the ten-day period; it's about the interview, and he sent the report, and he didn't take it into account; he needs to know about it, and he needs to be in the report. That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0656par0313	Mr. President, as far as I know, there is no such obligation. I think my attitude is correct. So we'll continue the negotiations.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0659par0314	Mr. President, it is imperative that the number of decisions required by the law in accordance with a law shall be called upon in accordance with the law. So this decision was given to you by my statement of will to search for enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0656par0315	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0659par0316	After this statement of will, you opened up a procedure debate about it, and unfortunately, in this procedure debate, you made a false statement that although I had asked for a sufficient number of decisions, I did not submit the demand for a sufficient number of decisions. So I'd like a word on your attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0660par0317	Mr. President, in your favor...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0659par0318	According to Article 13 of the Civil Code, first of all...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0661par0319	Against you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0660par0320	Mr. President, how many times have we discussed... the same thing?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0659par0321	Sir, I'm not going to...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0662par0322	In your favor, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0663par0323	Against you, Mr. Vural. In his favor: Mr. Recep Special, Mustafa Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0664par0325	Mr. President, if there's anything else, let's talk about the ball.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0665par0326	We've got more to talk about, because I guess the one who does the dirty thing is always trying to rub it in his face...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0663par0327	Against you, Mr. Hamzacebi?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0666par0328	Mr. Mahmut Tanal...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0663par0329	Against you, Mr. Mahmut Tanal?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0667par0330	Against...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0663par0331	Okay. Mr. Elitaş, MP of Kayseri. Mr. Elistash, in favor. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0668par0335	Please follow the times, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0669par0338	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I'm looking at your statements. We've searched the transcripts. When Mr. Shandır spoke to you, he said with Mr. Vural, take a look at the books. We looked at the records.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0670par0340	There's no Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0669par0341	I say with Mr. Vural. We looked at the records.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0671par0342	No, we didn't go through the reports together.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0669par0343	We checked to see if there was enough to decide whether or not he wanted it. We've seen that you don't want the number of decisions enough. Mr. President said: Mr. Vural came to me on the stand, told me, I'll ask for the number of decisions. But I looked, Mr. Vural was on the phone. Three and a half minutes after his phone call, Mr. Vural asked if he wanted a sufficient number of decisions. The first thing that should happen is that you express a will, you represent a group, you act with the corporate personality of a group. You're going to ask for the number of decisions, but your phone is so important that you don't take it seriously, you don't take Parliamentary office seriously, you don't take Turkey's National Assembly group seriously, you don't take the rights and demands of the National Movement Party seriously; three and a half minutes later, four minutes later, you say, "I asked for the number of decisions." Dear lawmakers, the number of decisions sufficient is clear how to be asked. The number of decisions should be the 146th Amendment -- before voting in Article 146, I demand the number of MPs who are not in the Civil Code, but by default. If the president says, the number of decisions is sufficient, but the clerk asks the person on his right. He says, "Are there any decisions enough?" He says, "There are examples." He says, "The number of decisions are enough." He asks the one on his left: 'Do you have any?'
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0672par0345	The one on the right says, "No." The one on the left says, "There is."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0669par0346	So he asked the one on the right: "There is none." He said to the one on the left: "There is one on the left." Then the President will say: "Because there is a conflict between the clerks, I will search for the number of decisions that are sufficient electronically. " He'll do the job. Dear MPs, I'm going to ask for a requested number of decisions. It's called a decision, but since it's a phone call, it's forgotten. The president has assessed the demand to ask for a sufficient number of decisions here, and there is a majority here, although it is not wanted within the majority, he has said, "It is accepted." He has passed on to the other matter. In that sense, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0673par0349	Mr. President cut Haydar out while Haydar was talking.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0669par0350	He didn't cut Haydar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0673par0351	He cut it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0669par0352	Mr. President didn't. It is disrespectful to the party, to the MP and to the group, to be interrupted by any party, no matter who it may be. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0674par0355	I just said, he cut mine, you didn't say disrespect, we're incomplete, it's the same thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0675par0356	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Tanal, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0676par0358	Mr. President, how long are you giving me?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0675par0359	Three minutes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0677par0360	I can't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0678par0361	It belongs to the President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0677par0362	What did we just do? I took your word for your attitude, but, dear President, dear lawmakers, this is a separate discussion now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0679par0363	Mr. President... Mr. Tanal, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0680par0365	Hold on, hold on. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0679par0367	Mr. President, you've just given seven minutes to the ruling party deputy leader of the group in the procedure debate, ten minutes to the deputy leader of the nationalist movement party. I'd like you to do the same for Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0680par0368	Now, Mr. President, I explained that at the time, even though I told everyone three minutes in a tense situation, I didn't interrupt those who spent three minutes, that's all. I just gave him to Mr. Vural for three minutes, and if they did, I didn't interrupt him, I talked to him for four minutes, he talked to him for six or seven minutes, he talked to him for ten minutes, that's it. Otherwise, as you know, we're talking for two or three minutes in the procedural debate. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0681par0369	You're inequality between parties, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0679par0370	So you want me to understand from here, sir, that if Mr. Tanal doesn't finish in three minutes, you're going to prolong the conversation, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0680par0371	I'd appreciate it if he didn't, someone else didn't, so I'll give him three minutes, if that's possible, if that's okay. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0679par0373	All right, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0682par0374	He's gonna stretch it out.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0683par0375	Dear President, dear lawmakers, of course, we have made a commitment to the position of Mr. President regarding the procedure debate, but, Mr. President, rights and dignity among the groups do not act in accordance with the principles of equality. Mr. President must first make an equal, fair commitment to all groups in accordance with rights and dignity. What did he just do? Mr. Mevlüt Aslanoglu gave him 3 minutes when he spoke, Mr. Elitaş gave him 7 minutes when he spoke, and Mr. Oktay Vural gave him 10 minutes when he spoke. So this is a clear and clear statement of the president's arbitrary transaction between groups. Of course, Mr. President, in accordance with Article 14 of the Interior Charter, although he has the authority for commissions to deal with injustice and irregularities, both Parliament Speaker and Parliament Speakers have not yet performed their duties on the commissions. As a parliamentary speaker, I wrote a petition to the Speaker of Parliament for this injustice, inequality, co-direction of the commissions of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Although I've filed a written petition, it's still open and clear to this day. Today, when we went on a hunger strike mission in Bolu, the same law was sent to the Public Relations Commission on Public Contraction Law, which was discussed in Parliament, it came to the Commission not 48 hours later in that Commission. In parallel with him, I offered him a law in the same situation as we talked about. The commissions said that they must be united because they co-operated between the two clear and clear proposals of the law. In the same way, when the Public Contraction Act had nothing to do with the Public Relations Commission, it had nothing to do with the Justice Commission... although there was an intense debate, unfortunately none of our demands were taken over due to the majority of the fingers in the commissions, and that only temporary clause was brought to the General Assembly today. So we, as a parliamentary speaker here, are these irregularities in the commissions, where are we going to complain about that? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry, Mr. President. Who are we to complain about these irregularities? Who are we dealing with? Under Article 14 of the Civil Code, we're dealing with Parliament Speaker and Parliament Speakers. Well, we're filing petitions on that. Mr. Oktay Vural is being mentioned and expressed in relation to what Mr. Vural has just mentioned. Our words are not heard in commissions because of the number of you are numerous, our words are not heard in the General Assembly, and because of this number of things -- what happens -- I mean, you need to decide independently in accordance with our Constitution, but you have trouble getting out of that party discipline and making independent decisions. Of course, this right and law does not just violate the rights and laws of us lawmakers; this right and law are also violated by the nation. Now you're going to say, "Well, what do you say about the commissions?" Mr. President, they're also in your line of work. For example, what do we do with injustices, illegalities? Does the lawmaker have nothing to do with this time? We shouldn't be doing nothing. Everyone's a certain professional, from a certain level of education. Almost all of us have a place in our memories. Hasn't the Turkish Trade Law just changed, fellas? He's changed, hasn't he? The Turkish Law of Debts has also changed, and since you, of course, don't understand this business, you're only dealing with these useless things -- so as a result...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0684par0385	Talk about attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0683par0386	...in Article 22, sir, you referred to the Old Trade Law 6762. Please, if you'd just listen to the commission, the subcommittee, and give it time. I mean, can't we just sit here and do nothing? Likewise, there is a reference to the Law of Debts. Of course, if there is a quality law, Parliament will be quality, if there is a poor law, and because of this poor law, parliamentary members in all Parliament will be under suspicion, so the quality and quality of the law will be measured by whether Parliament works efficiently or not. Well, we're here with 110 fellow lawyers, and friends in other trade groups are a different problem. Well, when we took this, like the summerboard, the Turkish Trade Law came into effect -- Mr. Secretary is here -- and a clause of about 55 articles was changed again two days before it went into effect. So, now, while we're doing this, and after a few days tomorrow, why should we deal with that reference to the Law of Debts again, the reference to the Law of Commerce, the judgment of the Law of Commerce, again? There's the name of the law, and you're going with the name of the definition, and there's some flaws in the definition. It's all made up for, dear friends. The way and method of making amends, until it's possible -- until it's possible -- without enough discussion from the commissions, just by finger votes, if we actually get it from commissions like this, we'll have a problem with the General Board, and that's the same problem... Maybe you didn't deserve some sentences, but we have to spend them on these wrong behaviors, so I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0685par0391	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. In favor of being in favor, Mr. Recep is special.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0686par0394	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, you've opened a formal debate over the procedure we've just discussed, your attitude, and the request you've reached. A decision was made earlier, and you shared it with the General Assembly. Now the position of the President at the request of Oktay Vural again... There must be another ruling in the Civil Code: We open a general discussion because of the president's positive-negative attitude, and I think there's a need to discuss the attitudes of the groups.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0687par0396	You do not interfere with it, but treat it with it, and you do not control it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0686par0397	However, there is no need to do so here; in all the elections, people look at the attitudes of these groups, and the EC increases the vote in every election, and you reduce the game.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0688par0399	That's a very historic thing to say!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0686par0400	So, with this kind of behavior, you can continue your efforts to lock down the House. We can encourage you more about this, but know that the people are testing your attitude more than the President's. We have local elections ahead of us, the presidential election; maintain that attitude until then. In my speech a moment ago, I think the MHP is locking this House up as part of Congress's work, because of Congress, where they're about to go to your meeting at the end of the week and do some activities there... we're going to the study meeting, not to enjoy it like you are. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The whole public knows how we've been running this House for ten years as an AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0689par0404	You're breaking it again, Mr. Special, when you say you're gonna fix it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0690par0405	His apology is bigger than his fault. It's better if you don't speak, Mr. Recep. Honestly, don't you think it'd be better if he just stood there, friend?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0686par0406	In the position of the President, you have just left with five minutes to go, even though we've agreed with you here, you've said, "It's enough," and you've said, "It's enough," and you've gone on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on There is a decision made.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0691par0408	Are you in favor of the President or against him?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0686par0409	Mr. President, this is the second time you've opened a legal debate on the same matter against the Civil Code. My respects to all of you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0692par0412	Then you should have taken it against him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0693par0413	Thank you, Mr. Special. Now, to be contrary, Mr. Vural. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0694par0417	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, these are the transcripts... now, he said I've just opened up a Koran-style debate on these proceedings. No, I didn't start a procedural debate at five to seven. I just said to Mr. President, when you've called enough, look at the transcripts. If you've called after that, there's nothing I can say. So you'll know what you're talking about first. Speaking of which, it doesn't suit the Ispartans you represent from the bottom of the line. So when you talk to him here, you're gonna talk to him on purpose, and it's not right to talk without knowing. Look, Mr. President, about your attitude... you have to manage correctly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0695par0420	Right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0694par0421	And do you know what you're talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0695par0422	I know very well.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0694par0423	You know...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0695par0424	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0694par0425	Okay. Look, I'm reading from the transcripts: - But Mr. President, it's against the Civil Code... The president -- now, one second -- Mr. Oktay told me that we want the number of decisions enough. Oktay Vural (Izmir) - Yes. Mehmet Shandır - Did you call? President-I was on the phone when I was going to vote, and I looked, and I guessed there was enough to decide... one second, sir... and I said there's enough to decide. He's saying, "Hey, I said there is. He says there is. Look, there is. I said there is. He says there is. It's in the report. Look, there is. Do you know what Mr. President said in the vote I said? I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be accepted into the terms of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0432	Right. Of course, there are enough decisions. I said, you said! Maybe, sir, it came out of my mouth, but it was accepted. I see it's accepted. It's over, a friend starts talking, and three or four minutes later you say, "What happened to the number of decisions I wanted to make?" I see, at the same time, you always know very well that when the group's vice presidents want to make a decision, they end up talking there, and I want the number of decisions enough. If the vice president tries to vote, we ask for a sufficient number of decisions. Your Grace was on the phone, and I was there when we spoke, and I waited until after the talk was over, and when I saw you on the phone...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0697par0435	Will Mr. Oktay ask for the number of decisions? For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0436	I looked at it with my friends, there's a majority of them, and I voted and I said, "It's over." It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0437	You're not telling the truth again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0438	No, it's the truth, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0439	You're not telling the truth again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0440	No, I'm telling the truth, sir, it's in the records, I'm telling the truth.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0441	Look, I'm reading from the reports again, from the transcripts: Mr. Oktay told me, we're asking for a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0442	Okay, that's right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0443	Have you called my request, my request for a sufficient number of decisions?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0444	I didn't call because you have to repeat the number of decisions you want.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0445	For God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0699par0446	For God's sake! There's no such thing! What makes you say that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0447	You know the drill here better than I do. When the talks are over, the decision is asked to be enough. If he doesn't, if the Speaker doesn't, you'll object immediately.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0448	Then you'll never be trusted. You don't run the House! Then you can't be trusted.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0449	No, sir, it's like this, look...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0450	Oh, my God! He says: "Don't trust me. " He says!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0451	How can you not trust me? It has nothing to do with that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0452	Don't trust me. That's not gonna happen, is it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0453	Yes, sir. Yes, yes, yes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0454	I want the number of decisions enough. He says, "I want the number of decisions." He says, "I want the number of decisions." Now he says, "Ya, he told me, but I shook it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0696par0455	Yes, sir, yes!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0456	That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen. How is that aberration?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0700par0457	Mayor, you're going down more and more!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0458	So you're going down, you're going down. If you've been given my request, you'll have to do what's necessary, that's clear. You didn't look for enough to decide. Look, there's the valuable lawmakers in the report, and there's the report, and look...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0701par0460	You've been doing theater all evening. Are you kidding me?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0698par0461	What a wave!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0701par0462	Are you kidding me?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0702par0463	What are you talking about, hooop! What are you yelling about?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0703par0464	Cut, cut, cut! You don't talk to the Deputy Director of the Group like that, stop!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0702par0465	Who the fuck are you? Who the fuck are you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0704par0467	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0705par0468	They're screaming, too. Why don't you tell them? Everyone's yelling, I don't understand. Please, you're yelling, so let's talk more calmly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0706par0469	Who are you, my lion, and who are you? Look, I'll show you in a minute, and I'll explain in a minute.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0704par0470	Mr. President, step in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0705par0471	We're doing a public service here. Let's not get personal, let's just talk about it. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0707par0473	You speak in Parliament, talk to your eternity!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0708par0474	Then talk to your Parliamentary literature.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0707par0475	That's enough!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0708par0476	Are we going to be dumb devils who shut up about your injustices and your irregularities? Am I gonna be a demon like you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0707par0477	Just talk to your literature, damn it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0708par0478	You're rude!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0707par0479	You're naughty!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0708par0480	How do you interfere? Look at that!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0707par0481	Sit down!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0709par0482	Yilmaz, Bulent Arinc is coming Yilmaz... Yilmaz, Bkent Arinc is coming, how quickly did you forget to turn your face to your lining!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0710par0483	Guys, please... Please, let's take our seats.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0711par0485	Look at that!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0712par0486	You're gonna teach me!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0713par0487	You've forgotten how quickly you've turned your lining to your face!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0714par0488	Let's talk calmly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0712par0489	That's enough!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0490	Do I need your permission to talk here?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0712par0491	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0492	Am I going to leave my rights and my law to you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0716par0493	Guys, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0494	I mean, if your finger is unconscionable, then what am I supposed to do?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0717par0495	That's enough! You've been making fun of me all night.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0496	That's enough! That's enough!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0718par0497	Yilmaz, Bulent Arinc is coming Yilmaz!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0498	It'll be enough, it'll be more than enough. It's more than enough! You'll see that you can't share with injustice and irregularity.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0499	Friends, please, please, let's sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0500	I'll make you say more, I'll make you say more.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0501	Mr. Vural, please...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0502	Can you give me a heads-up?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0503	I'm warning you, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0715par0504	Who?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0505	I'm trying to warn everyone, anyone who talks loud, anyone who has a voice. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0720par0507	The preacher doesn't insult, they insult the Hati.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0508	Please take your seats, Mr. Okan.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0721par0509	Mr. President, shut them up, we'll sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0510	Let them sit down, all right. Please, please, please, please. Okay, guys, okay. Please, I beg you to take your seat.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0722par0512	You've forgotten your scolding so quickly, Yilmaz! You forget how quickly your lining was facing you, and you couldn't get out in public! You're talking big now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0723par0513	Nevzat, don't forget your scolding!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0514	Mr. Korkmaz... Mr. Vural, continue, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0724par0516	Mr. President, can I ask you something?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0719par0517	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0724par0518	I'd like to ask your speaker's permission. Would you ask Mr. Speaker to explain when and where he asked you for the number of decisions that were sufficient?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0725par0519	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0726par0520	He's just saying it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0727par0521	He told you on the phone?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0726par0522	It's in the transcripts because he wanted it. He's just saying, where else is he gonna be?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0728par0523	It's not in the records.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0729par0524	When and where did he want it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0525	I'm reading from the transcripts...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0731par0526	Well, well, well...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0527	Mr. Oktay told me we want the number of decisions enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0529	But there's no way I'm asking for the number of decisions at that moment, Mr. Vural, I'm not done talking. That's what I'm trying to say. We're not done talking.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0530	You'll want it when it's over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0531	Okay, but when it's over, when we don't want it, you know, you always warn us that we've asked for enough of it. So we cut it, we want the number enough to decide again, it's that simple.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0733par0532	When will it be over? When?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0533	Now, look, what you're saying here is that the MP of the MHP came to me before the speech was finished, and he said, "I'm going to ask for enough."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0534	Right, right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0535	Look, I want to. I said I want to.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0536	Sir, I don't remember any of this. So I'm asking you...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0537	Look, I'm talking about your attitude. You're making it sound like I didn't want it. I wanted to.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0538	But you can't ask at the time, which I'm trying to explain because the conversation wasn't over, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0734par0539	He wanted it after it was over, how do you know? Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0540	Mr. President, when I'm done, I want a sufficient number of decisions. Since the recording has come to you, when you do the procedure, you have to ask for it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0541	That's right. I may have been wrong, you would have warned me, it happens all the time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0542	Now, Mr. President, look, I don't need to warn you. Mr. Elitaş just said, according to Article 13 of the Civil Code, if you say that the number of decisions is required, and if you have not done this vote, you can make it possible to correct it by opening a procedure debate. Why didn't you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0543	Mr. Vural, we, then, you weren't there, we discussed the procedure, and there was a decision made. Now that you've asked us to discuss the same matter again, we've reopened it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0730par0544	And you opened it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0732par0545	So, what else can I do?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0735par0546	You shouldn't be answering, Mr. President. How many minutes is this going to take, President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0736par0547	One hour, one hour!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0737par0548	Why don't you stand on the stand? Mr. Kaçir, get out of here. You'll be the vice president.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0735par0549	Let's know, my dear. Let's know the limit so we can sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0737par0550	As much as the president wants!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0551	Now, Mr. President, I beg you, I ask you for the number of decisions. Did I say?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0552	That's right, you did.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0740par0553	Where, when, where did he want it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0554	It's necessary... before we vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0555	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0556	Mr. President, when did I ask for it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0557	You asked for it while the speeches were going on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0741par0558	He accepts, he accepts! Mrs. Ayþe, he agrees, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0559	Yeah. [Applause from MHP rows, applause from AK PARTY rows!]
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0560	Okay. You know, there's enough decision-making to be asked after the end of the talks, that's the general way. If I'd jumped, if you'd asked me again, Mr. Vural, I'd have called the number. You know that. Why shouldn't I? We're all human. I mean, seriously, you don't have to nod like that, I mean it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0561	Shame on you, Mr. President, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0562	There's nothing to be ashamed of. Members of parliament, there are also reports that there is no demand for a sufficient number of decisions to be made in accordance with the protocols of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0564	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0565	There are reports that he's not. There is no irregularity in voting and switching to articles. That's our decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0567	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0573	Now, on behalf of their people, Mr. Ali Longening...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0574	In the reports, the decision asked for a sufficient number. You say. Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0575	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0577	Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0578	This is too much!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0580	A thousand times for you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0581	This is too much!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0582	Shame on you! He asked for it in the transcripts. You say.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0583	Don't get out of line!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0738par0584	He asked for it in the transcripts. He asked for it in the papers. You're talking about it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0585	Mr. Ali Longırmak, here you are, sir. Isn't there, sir, Mr. Ali Tallurmak?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0742par0587	Mr. President, on behalf of myself, I request a word.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0743par0588	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0589	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0742par0590	Unless there's a personal request, I'd like a word on my behalf.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0591	Here you go, sir. Wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0744par0593	Where does he want to talk?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0594	They demanded to taunt the group, sir, and I did.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0744par0595	When did he ask for a word? Take a look at the report! The man calls himself the witness. Mr. President, you've had your fun!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0745par0596	If you don't want to stretch, I say I do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0739par0597	Sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0746par0598	Mr. President, why don't you take a rest?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0747par0599	He wants a word on behalf of the individual, about picking on the group...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0746par0600	Mr. President, take a rest.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0748par0601	One second, let's make a personal promise to the other friend, and if he doesn't show up, I'll give it to you, please. Nevzat Don't be afraid, come in...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0749par0603	Negotiate! Yeah, yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0748par0604	Nevzat Don't Be Afraid, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0750par0606	Mr. President, does Nevzat Korkmaz have a name?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0751par0607	Sure, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it, he's got it,
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0752par0608	Don't worry, we're reading that much of the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0753par0609	Mr. Korkmaz, go ahead.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0610	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. It is the duty of the Parliamentary majority, as you all know, of the MPs, to run the commission and the General Assembly, to ensure that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is properly implemented, even to defend the rights of the opposition, and to provide this environment for the opposition. But unfortunately, you're displaying a vision that is far from responsible. A vision that interprets the Civil Charter in its own way, assigns the commissions to its own pleasure, tries to trap the opposition and create an opportunistic environment in the General Assembly. Look, the opposition is constantly complaining about these traps, these environments that have been created for him. What are they complaining about? Are these complaints right or wrong? Are you questioning this? No. So, dear lawmakers, what do we call this attitude, what do we call it? In its simplest way, it's rude to the opposition. Whether you're uncomfortable or not, what else is called a majority that doesn't respect opposition? Dear lawmakers, how would you react if you faced the same attitude? Isn't the Assembly General Assembly adjourned because your party has a MYK meeting in this House? Even if all the council groups didn't approve of it, didn't they remain silent due to mutual respect? Yes, you all know that fact, you've all been there. So, what do you do now? Opportunity. If the National Movement Party is not in Parliament, then make haste. What do we make of the pies of Hassan? Does it look good? Mr. Elitaş came to the stand, tried to legitimize what had been done, and he explained: "Sir, this is how we agreed with Mr. Shandir. This work would be over, and it would not be over. If it's not over, then we've put the next law in front of the General Assembly. Dear friends, no AKP MP has spoken out against this incident. I'd have expected...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0755par0615	You wish!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0616	...a few of your brothers in their right mind, in terms of the welfare of the next General Assembly's work, were the means to eliminate this misdemeanor. Neither them nor you, nor any of you. It's called justice, cruelty in essence, treason in the essence of national will. Now, a member of parliament came here and made a statement for the General Assembly of the National Movement Party on November 4th. He's a lawyer, he came here on behalf of the law, he didn't say anything on this stand. He read the Civil Charter, didn't even interpret it, friends -- perhaps we expect too much from him, and, frankly, he didn't find any words to connect it to me, which I should question. In front of all of you, when the Civil Code is so open, I think I'm referring to this objection to the National Movement Party's pre-committee state of mind. Like the General Assembly, he has made a truly political, disapproving and unpoliticized promise, and he has spoken a huge word. This dear friend of ours, who speaks of the affliction of the Civil Code, and wants to respect it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0756par0618	Where's the congressman?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0619	...the Constitutional amendment that was voted after the parliamentary debate on the October 27th election, remember? This dear friend of ours, this dear friend of ours who wants to respect the Civil Code, has come to the rear of the National Movement Party, there are friends who don't vote, I looked at the list, let's vote for them. He has made his offer to the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0757par0621	Look, now, we got him. Six, six! Bravo! Six, six!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0622	Yeah, yeah. [[Republican Party (CHP) rows (Bravo) voices and applause]] Do you know what he came and then got, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0757par0625	Oh, boy, oh, boy!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0626	He was chased from that time, out of respect for the nationalist movement party's national will. You have nothing to say or add to that statement.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0758par0627	And we're cheating there. When you say, "I'm sorry, we didn't do it, blah, blah, blah." I caught them red-handed there, red-handed! Look, now, you offered to cooperate! Let's go!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0628	Yes, dear friends, you should eat a bunch of bread about inviting the beloved MP, the National Movement Party, to pay homage. Dear lawmakers, of course, it takes a lot of commitments to run the state, but I think the most important thing is to have a government care. The AKP has done a lot of wrongs so far, of course, with some of its rights, but do you know what the biggest mistake is, my friends? His acceptance of himself in government is that this state, as if it were a tribal state, has mistaken everything that was done to him, as if it were hundreds of years of state tradition, and denies every act as if it had no truth in it. Dear friends, in this great state life, in the vast and deep waters of these oceans, the AKP is a cat, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan is a drop. Look who's here, look who's here, dear friends. When you realize this fact, you'll see that everything is behind you, and you'll be blown away like leaves in front of the wind. Dear lawmakers, in the name of institutionalism, whatever there is in the name of state traditions has been battered in your term, ignored in your term. A few hours ago, here at the General Assembly, the Public Contraction Act matches exactly the description I just made. It's a deal. It says Mr. Elitaş. He says it would be done by 1900. Is that so, Mr. Elitaş? We agreed with Mr. Şandir, that it would be done by 1900. I swear to you, Mr. Mehmet Shandır Bey stopped some of them from being asked before he left. It's not over, it's not over. We have to leave at 7:00, tops, at the latest. If you'd finished, who'd have held your hand? Who stopped you here? So the National Movement Party isn't here so it can stop you, but what did you do? If there's no MHP, then add the financial factoring car to the back of the Public Contraction Act car. This is the Public Contraction Act, whose precious friends have been identified with the AKP, and if you haven't had one in ten years, you've brought this Public Contraction Act to Parliament three or four times a year. We are also discussing the Public Contraction Act as if this Assembly had no other work to do. What are these institutions for, dear friends? These institutions were released at the time of the 57th government. Exposed for what? Rescuing politics from its negative effects and allowing the tender agency to function objectively. What have you guys been up to? What did you add to this distinguished institution? Let's not add to it. With the changes you've brought in, you've cleared the gold with the wrong methods of the Public Contraction Act, the Public Contraction Agency, and you've emptied it, and I'm sorry, you've made it your own farm. You wronged the right one, you drowned the lion in the cat. Why, dear friends? Because you're afraid of control, you see, in a very general expression during the ten-year AKP administration, a year's budget revenue is about 150 billion dollars, and if you multiply by 10 puts $1.5 trillion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like an extension to finish my vows. It's a trillion and a half...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0759par0637	Mr. President, he's slandering us. No additional time, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0639	Don't be afraid, I say what I say, you come in here, you do...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0759par0640	You'll get your answer now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0641	Look, all the friends there are witnesses. My dear friends, all that has happened since evening, unfortunately, is a great injustice to the national will. This rudeness must end quickly, because after that, the General Assembly must work in peace and quiet. With these feelings, I hope, that this wrong will somehow be avoided, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0760par0645	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0761par0646	There's teasing Mr. Recep.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0754par0647	He made a statement, all the friends heard it here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0762par0648	No, sir, no names, no names.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0763par0649	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0764par0650	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0763par0651	You've just called Mr. Tallırmak, and when he's not, I want a word on my behalf.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0765par0652	There were times, Mr. President, you missed the time.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0766par0653	Why don't you explain, Mr. Recep? I wonder what you're gonna say. All the friends saw it here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0763par0654	You called Mr. Korkmaz... did you draw straws?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0767par0655	Sir, since they were both on the MHP, they handed it over to the scholar Light, who was spoken here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0768par0656	And our clerk is a witness, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0763par0657	Are you drawing straws, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0769par0658	There's been a draw before.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0763par0659	Did you draw a new lottery? We know Mr. Tallırmak isn't here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0770par0660	Why, does it bother you, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0771par0661	Mr. Elitaş, in the first thing, the lottery was drawn, and they both went up to the MHP, and one was the scholar Light.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0772par0662	It's already been taken before, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0771par0663	So now he needs to talk.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0773par0664	Mr. President, I'm telling you, sir, in the theory that you just drew him in at 10:30 a.m. at quarter past, he had a say in the name of the two MPs from the National Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0771par0665	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0773par0666	You said someone, Mr. Tallırmak. You said someone, Mr. Korkmaz. He's not afraid, he's changed it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0771par0667	The first ones out...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0773par0668	Mr. President, since Mr. Ali Longırmak isn't here right now and hasn't come this way at 10:30 p.m., he has the right to speak to two MPs from MHP...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0774par0669	He's turned it over, he's turned it over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0773par0670	Mr. President, since he's not here right now and he's not here at 10:30, I mean, what did he send the power of attorney with, teleport?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0775par0671	No, he was just here, you didn't see him. Mr. Elitaş, everyone was here when you were traveling. Mr. Elitaş, if you look at the surveillance footage, you'll see.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0776par0673	Mr. President, it's like this: when the first lottery was drawn, it was Emin Çınar, MHP; Scholar Light, MHP.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0777par0674	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0776par0675	So they changed Ali Longırmak to Emin Çınar. Ali didn't want to be taller, he said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0778par0676	Emin Çınar handed over to Ali Longırmak, and to Nevzat Kormaz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0776par0677	Instead of these two... the scholar light was already one of the names of the original theory.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0678	Who changed it, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0780par0679	To the place of Emin Çınar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0680	Is Emin Çınar here?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0780par0681	Yes, Emin Çınar is here too, Emin Çınar had already handed over...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0781par0682	Ali Longırmak has handed it over to Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0683	Mr. President, who did Mr. Ali Longırmak hand over to?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0780par0684	Nevzat is not afraid.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0782par0685	Nevzat handed it over to Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0686	Ali Longırmak wasn't here when the lottery was drawn.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0783par0687	No, he was just here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0784par0688	Mr. Elitaş, you don't understand. Listen to the president. Kura Emin went up to Çınar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0689	Mr. President, you came to me when the MP voted on the Constitution. That's what you said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0783par0690	I didn't say me, I said the nationalist movement group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0691	Mr. Ali Longırmak, who accused my MP during the constitutional vote, we know that Mr. Ali Longırmak is not here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0785par0692	How do you know? He was here before, for Christ's sake.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0693	The draw time of the lottery is set. We already have the CCTV footage of Mr. Ali Longırmak being here at what hour.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0785par0695	Look, he was just here. Look at the surveillance footage.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0696	I don't understand how the President of the Turkish National Assembly would allow someone to continue to accuse my MP here. Secondly, here...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0785par0698	Oh, no, he was just here, he came from the band. We said we'd talk, I'll hand it over, I won't talk. He said, "You're amazing. It doesn't look like much of a pilgrim.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0786par0699	Let's take a break, and then we'll look at the surveillance footage, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0779par0700	Second of all, someone who's started talking with a fake signature here, and we're obviously condemning that kind of language on behalf of others. Our congressman has been framed. I don't want this to go into...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0785par0702	Mr. Elitaş, let him speak again. Emin Çınar is here, the original owner of the draw is here, come here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0787par0703	Sir, now... please, please, let's keep the peace.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0788par0704	Mr. President, what you did is true, because Mr. Longırmak handed it over to Nevzat Korkmaz; the scholar Light has gone up, and the scholar will speak.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0787par0705	Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0789par0706	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0787par0707	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0790par0708	Emin Çınar is here too. Mr. Elitaş, both of our friends are here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0791par0709	You're putting Mr. President in a difficult position, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0792par0710	Mr. President, sir, I'd like word from the teaser. By mentioning my name...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0793par0711	By mentioning your name, yes. Two minutes. A new pick-me-up...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0794par0712	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0793par0713	Mr. Alim, he doesn't want to talk about bullying, I promise you later, don't pick on him for two minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0795par0714	What's the connection? Don't pick on me without a personal name, okay?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0793par0715	By name, one second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0796par0716	Wait a minute, sir, I used the name Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0797par0717	Mr. President, don't interrupt a character who's on the stand...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0796par0718	Excuse me, sir, just a minute, sir, and I'll explain my motive.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0797par0719	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0796par0720	I used the name of Mr. Elitas, but what did I spend on teasing, please tell him? Where's the pick-me-up?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0798par0721	That's what you have to ask, Mr. President. Ask him, he promises in advance...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0799par0722	Yes, let him say it, sir, one minute, one minute, calm down, sir, sit down, let him say it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0796par0723	No, sir, no teasing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0799par0724	He says he picked on me by mentioning his name. When the name is mentioned, it is not discussed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0800par0725	Let's hear what he has to say. Mr. President, Mr. President, you have to tell me what he said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0796par0726	I mentioned his name, but I didn't pick on him. You'll appreciate it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0800par0727	Let's ask him what he said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0801par0728	Sir, I'm asking you, I'm asking you, please, one of you talk to me, how can I listen to all of you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0796par0729	A problem, yes, what did I pick on?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0800par0730	What did he say, what did he say?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0801par0731	Mr. Mustafa, what did he say, sir? I'm asking you. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0802par0734	Mr. President, I'm asking you, Mr. Elistash, is this the work of our fellow MP fit or not? I'm looking at the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0803par0735	No, I told you to talk about Mehmet Shandır Bey.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0802par0736	Yes, Mehmet Shandır, that's right Mehmet Shandır, you reminded me, he was there. That's what it was about. We've spoken to Mr. Şandir. That's right, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0803par0737	No, there's no teasing there. I just passed on your speech. There's no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0804par0739	Mr. Korkmaz said it's my honor if there's any bullying. Please take your seat, can you wait two minutes, please, please?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0803par0740	Mr. President, would you please explain what I was picking on?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0805par0741	Let's get the statement, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0806par0742	Mr. President, the ruling party is the vice president of the group...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0803par0743	Mr. President, can you explain how you appreciate it? How did I pick on you?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0805par0744	Let's take a look at the report.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0807par0745	Mr. President, take a break and rest for five minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0808par0746	Sir, he said, by name. Please sit down. Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0809par0748	Mr. President, can you reboot the time?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0810par0749	Mr. President, please tell me how I picked on you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0808par0750	Mr. Korkmaz, please. Please sit down and tell me how to... please, just listen for two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0809par0753	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0808par0755	Here you go, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0809par0756	Look, I've read the transcripts, and I've just read the transcripts from around 6:00 p.m. before the General Assembly closes. Mr. Bahçapılı asked permission and said, "Mr. President, when and where did the Deputy Director of the Group ask you for a sufficient number of decisions?" I've looked at the records, none at all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0811par0757	Didn't Nevzat Korkmaz tell you that? Wait, what does that have to do with teasing? What does that have to do with anything, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0809par0758	As far as I can tell, he came to you and told you. What you must do, Mr. Oktay Vural, is to call and tell you that there is enough to decide. Because he's told you that there's no way to do something that's not in the transcripts. Look, valuable lawmakers, we're trying to get a law out, and we're trying to get a law out that groups agree on. We're trying to express our meeting with Mr. Group Vice President. I want to thank Mr. Aslanoglu again, and to the letter, he repeated his speech here as chairman of our Parliament. If we had written the group proposal the way we talked about it, we would have passed all of these laws here yesterday. If not, then the Financial Rental Act would be up around five or six, and we'd be done. We said that it would be wrong, it wouldn't be ethical to continue working as an AK PARTI Group, when we had a congress of the National Party of Action, and if we didn't talk to Mr. Presidents about eating with their deputies or other friends, it would be wrong. We said that, we said that, but -- as I said, we said that -- that if the group's vice presidents came here, and the pin was drawn between them, it would go to the wrong points. We still have two and a half years left to work together.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0812par0761	Yes, I'm glad you remembered, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0809par0762	We're going to work together, but please don't try to accuse us of lying and different things while you're on that bench. I don't care if we... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0813par0765	Mr. President, can you tell us who he meant by lies?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0814par0766	Mr. President, what taunt did he answer to?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0815par0768	Answered what?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0814par0769	What answer, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0816par0770	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0817par0771	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0818par0772	Why did he leave?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0819par0773	And then there's the subject explanation, why did he come out?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0817par0774	He's been picked on by his name.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0820par0776	I didn't give a name.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0821par0777	He didn't give me a name, why are you being offended?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0822par0778	Mr. President, look at the report. He didn't give a name.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0823par0779	Mr. Recep, for what?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0824par0781	My dear President, I salute you all. Just now, Isparta MP Nevzat Korkmaz has made a claim against me...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0825par0783	I didn't give a name.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0826par0784	That's who showed up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0824par0785	I've had several contacts there to get me to vote one wrong vote in the Constitutional Amendment vote that we've given together by the MHP and the AK PARTY groups.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0825par0786	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0824par0787	I've never had a theme to get anyone to vote wrong; one.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0825par0788	Mr. Recep, you've been chased behind the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0824par0789	We voted for this Constitution as an AK PARTY and an MHP group, the two of us together, friends. So it's obvious who sold who and why 360 votes came out of this thing of yours.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0827par0790	He didn't say a name, so why are you offended?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0828par0791	And why are you offended?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0827par0792	Why are you offended? Why are you offended? You're confessing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0829par0793	Now, do you know why this Nevzat Korkmaz friend, the Isparta MP's grudge, his hatred, my friends? The AK PARTY government has made him the head of the department at the Home Office.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0827par0794	Caught red-handed!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0829par0795	And in 2004, he applied to me to be mayor of Yalvac, and he came to my room and said, "I want to be mayor of Yalvança from the EC PARTY."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0827par0797	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0830par0798	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0827par0799	You did that fraud in front of everyone!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0831par0800	We did not nominate him from the AK PARTY, where his hatred and hatred for the AK PARTY came from. I said to him, "Go to Erkan Mumcu." I said, "It may be if Erkan Mumcu nominates you."
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0832par0801	Recep, tell me how you're gonna get a fake vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0831par0802	Mr. Erkan knew his quality, caliber, so he didn't run from the party. The AK PARTY has once again told you how big it is because it doesn't nominate people like this with no caliber.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0833par0803	You swear you didn't say that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0831par0804	I thank Nevzat Korkmaz for giving me this opportunity, and I give you all my respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0834par0806	Is the government your father's farm?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0835par0807	Mr. Special, thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0836par0808	What did you do in front of everyone? That's when you got here, and you brought it here in front of all of us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0837par0809	Tell me if I've done it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0835par0810	Please, you'll have two minutes... but please, let's stop. Here you go. [[Noises in MHP rows]] Okay, listen to your friend. Please, please. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0838par0816	Yes, Mr. President... Mr. President, did I just mention Recep's personal name while I was speaking here? Why did he come to this stand?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0839par0818	To confess his guilt...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0838par0819	So it was the Reverend who walked around in the back rows.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0840par0821	We need more pouches in the baths to get dirt out of this.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0838par0822	Yes, now, look, dear friends, he has slandered me as I came to him from the Justice and Development Party to run for mayor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0841par0823	You came to my room.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0842par0824	What did he say when he came to your room?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0838par0825	Look, now, do you swear on your honor, on your honor, on God's, on your book, on your religion?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0841par0826	I will.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0838par0827	Shame on you! That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0843par0828	Shame on you, you lying Recep, you lying Recep!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0844par0829	It's either a fake vote, or he's talking shamelessly! You walk out of there shamelessly, confessing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0843par0830	Recep, you're a fake, even the money in your pocket is fake! You even cut off the victim with fake money.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0845par0831	Shame on you, that's all I'm saying. Look, shame on you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0846par0832	Okay, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0845par0833	Look, I'm telling you guys, I've never been to Mr. Special, or anyone else's friends, not just the mayor of the Justice and Development Party, but to take part in any election mission.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0847par0834	You came to my room.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0848par0835	Look, you came to my room.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0849par0836	You're a fake voter, so what good is it for you to swear now?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0850par0837	Look, you're making another accusation about being caught red-handed in there, brother. Oh, and let me tell you something else. My dear friends, I have been appointed head of the Office of the State Administration of the Ministry of Interior at the time of the 57th Government, you are misleading the General Assembly with false information, and I have nothing to do with AKP yesterday or tomorrow. I'm one of those who, thank God, have the heart of the Turkish-Islam nation, have the forehead open, have the head up. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] As for the calibration, your gram is not enough to measure my caliber. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0851par0842	Members of Parliament, Scholar Illum...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0852par0843	Mr. President, look, it's important.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0850par0844	What kind of slander is that? Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0852par0845	In this regard, a statement of false voting has been made, while an MP comes out and corrects it, revealing that he made that statement. It's so sad... so sad.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0853par0846	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0854par0847	My dear friends, one moment...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0852par0848	I mean, why didn't the other lawmakers object, why didn't they? Why didn't Mr. Osman tell Mr. Çazatay and Mr. Recep?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0853par0850	Mr. President, I didn't mention the name of Recep Special.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0852par0851	Which means he did, which means he was there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0853par0852	Recep didn't mention the name of the Special, but he pointed. Under the shame of slander here...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0855par0853	I'll tell you, Recep, your name is now Recep the faker! You've become Recep the faker...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0856par0854	Thank you. Dear scholar Light, here you are, sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0857par0856	And the Prime Minister will give up his name when he sees it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0858par0857	Betraying Erbakan too...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0856par0858	Mr. Light, please. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0859par0861	Mr. Elitaş, look, you're gonna get in trouble, you're gonna get him under control, you're gonna get in trouble.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0856par0862	Let's hear it, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0860par0863	He didn't swear, he didn't swear, he said.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0861par0864	He can't!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0862par0865	What if he did? If I did, let him say I'm an asshole, and let him go. Let him say I didn't. Let him say, let him go. Come on out and tell me I didn't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0861par0867	My skin...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0863par0868	Sit down, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0862par0869	Come on, Recep, if I've done it, say it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0864par0870	He can't.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0863par0871	Mr Turkkan, listen to your friend. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0865par0873	You're making it look like something that didn't happen, that's a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0866par0874	That's a shame, that's a shame, I just found out, but it's a shame.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0865par0875	Look, it shows how desperate you are...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0866par0876	You will bequeath to your children the name Recep, the faker. That's too bad. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0867par0877	Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0868par0883	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I believe that time has grown long because of this unpleasant discussion at this time of night, which has made us all nervous. I, after all, salute you all first and foremost. We are now discussing the Bill of Law 239 rows. Our predecessors expressed their views on the unfortunate arrival of this bill to the commissions, the absence of the opinion of other subcommittee commissions. I'm a member of the Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Natural Resources, Information and Technology, and I'm here to attend the first meetings, general discussions of this law with the members of our Commission, along with the valued members. In fact, at that meeting, I told the sector representatives, I said, "There are only people here who give money. Let's listen to the sides of the nests that were destroyed by those who gave it to us. So let them give us a briefing first for these talks. What is the current location of the factoring companies in the Turkish economy? How many homes have been destroyed because of the economy that went bad during the ten-year AKP rule? We can't see each other until we have this data. After the first meeting, a break has been made. A week later, we agreed to renew the meeting to get this information back. However, word came in that the Plan and Budget Commission had transferred it to the subcommittee, and that the Commission had not met after that while we were waiting for the subcommittee's talks to be completed. So we're dealing with a bill that started negotiations with the Industrial Trade Commission, which was incomplete, that the Commission report wasn't sent to the main commission. I want to make that determination once. Now, I hereby ask the Minister once again during these law talks: How many of these factoring companies are in Turkey? Is it true, in particular, that most of them have broken down nests in Turkey with foreign partners? How much money has Turkey been given in the last decade? If he can't pay, how many homes have been destroyed by double, triple resigned? Now, while protecting companies in these regulations, there is no measure to protect the people who are forced to go to these companies and be set up because of economic difficulties. So this bill will destroy new homes, but it will transform many of the foreign-born companies into banks in Turkey. It would be in this country's best interest to withdraw this bill. Therefore, this particular bill may be lacking in talks, but this great Parliament cannot give a bonus to a sector that is disbanding the precious families of the Turkish nation. That's what this bill is about. We need to reassess this bill. The opposition here must be read carefully, and the government must withdraw this bill by heeding these warnings. It would be a shame for this House to have such a bill out of this House. That's my personal opinion. It's really a bill to re-enact an industry that has destroyed many homes, causing many people to rot in prison by the hand of Parliament. There's no way we're gonna let that happen. You must give us this information. In the last five years, how many nests in particular have been destroyed because of them, you need to enlighten this House. So there's a great deal of good it would do here for those of us who know this information, who are valued, who are responsible for the economy. We need to get this information. I know a lot of people in my constituency who have fallen into the trap of these companies, rotted in jail, their homes destroyed. This nation doesn't get us to approve a law that gives these companies a bonus here. I have to give this warning. When we don't pay, we re-sign and discuss a bill with people who rot in prison for years. We need to have a serious discussion about this bill. On the other hand, I would like to point out that today, in 2009, I have come to the Supreme Assembly in the middle of the night, knowing that there is a very special situation, and once the other law is over, after the negotiations on the amendment to the Public Contraction Law have been completed, I have come here with a firm understanding of the Justice and Development Party's efforts to make us work all the way to the morning. He's been waiting since 2009, and what were you thinking? So what if it's next week or a week later? With this concept of imposition, okay, maybe you can silence your own party members, but with the understanding of silencing opposition parties, if we make these talks work, we'll continue to break each other down. Dear lawmakers, I actually had a speech during previous law talks, but since we had to leave, I couldn't share that information with you. Some of the valued lawmakers came and said: "The Public Contraction Act has been changed since 2003, since this period of government." True, 25 laws have been issued, but a total of 47 articles of the 70-point law have been changed. This party made the most changes in the Public Contraction Act. 152, please see, one by one, 152 times. Every ten years, different elements of the law, some of which change a few times, we have to sit down and think about it. Yes, it can change not 25 but 35, amenna, but remember the latest change, the contract will be given to contractors called in by invitation, and no one else will get the contract with their money. And today, as their case continues, you've granted the right to tender the people who have been denied the right to public tenders, even though the case has not been finalized. Your consciences will be aching. With these impositions, if we make these chords with a few items in a short period of time, this nation will be caught up with us. I'm celebrating my friend. For five years, in this grand assembly, the law proposal has become the fastest legal friend, the Congressman of Şanliurfa, I can't remember his name now.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0869par0893	Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0868par0894	The law makes its offer, comes to the Commission not 48 hours later. There's no government representative on the commission. Hasbelkader, I'm a spokesman for my own group. A commission meeting has begun without a government spokesman. We said, "You can't do it properly." We said, "It's been a recess for an hour. The government representative has arrived, not 48 hours later, up and down, this has passed through the Commission. We're looking here, and in the 30th century, he came to the General Assembly, and again, forty-eight hours later, he became a law from here. I congratulate my friend, 550 MPs have been awarded the title of lawmaker, the fastest-legal candidate in the House. I want to share with you once again that this is the miracle of the esbodan, that you have to ask, think, to think. Dear lawmakers, this law -- I repeat it again -- read it well, no matter how many nests we destroy, the plague will be on all of us. Maybe someone in this world won't be able to reach us, we have immunity, or they won't be able to answer for them, but in the next world, I believe that every voter finger will be called the plague. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0870par0898	You're wrong, correct him, and don't let him get wrong in the reports.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0899	Congressmans, there is a motion issued on the matter according to the Civil Code 72. I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that all of the laws continue in their talks according to the Civil Code 72. Talks must continue to ensure that the law can be understood better.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0872par0908	Mr. President, we want enough numbers for the meeting.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0909	Is the decision enough? I understand you asked for a roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0872par0910	We want enough numbers for the meeting.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0911	You want enough numbers for a meeting.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0873par0912	Mr. President, there's no roll call at this hour, but the meeting can ask for enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0913	Yes, take the names, please. Mr. Günal, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Halaçoğlu, Mr. Adan, Mr. Şeker, Mr. Torlak, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Dedeoğlu, Mr. Illum, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Çınar, Mr. Oğan, Mr. Varlı, Mr. Erdem, Mr. Belen. Congressmans, we're going to do an electronic check-up. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0874par0919	Mr. President, I've had one too many miscalculations, twice. I went into roll call instead of asking questions. So think of ours.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0921	Ali Ashık, Izmir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0875par0922	No.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0923	No. Mustafa zucchini, Iconya?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0875par0926	No, no...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0927	No. Sermin Fish, Elazig? No. Salim Nice, Çorum? Here. Mehmet Ölturk, Hatay?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0876par0931	Where is it? No.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0932	No. Nihat Zeybekci, Denizli? [Bravo! From MHP rows!] No.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0877par0935	Well done, all of you! Well done, all of you! Wow! Wow!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0871par0937	Canan Candemir Steel, Bursa? No. Gürsoy Erol, İstanbul? Here. Gülay Dalyan, Istanbul? Here. Mehmet's here, Giresun? Here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0878par0941	What a fraud!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0879par0942	What a fraud, a fraud!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0880par0943	What's to be done with those who aren't?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0881par0944	There's plenty of meetings, we're still negotiating.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0882par0945	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0881par0946	Here you are, Mr. Vural, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0882par0947	I want to know how many meetings were enough.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0881par0948	185, sir. That's the number I was given.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0882par0949	Mr. President, Mr. Alim Light has stated that you've entered the roll call because I'm going into questions. It's in the records, too.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0881par0950	We got him out, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0883par0951	Mr. President, there's no one here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0882par0952	So 184 of them, after we got him out...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0881par0953	We got him out, that's enough. [[Continue]] Now, according to the 72nd Amendment of the Civil Code, I will submit the motion to your votes: those who accept...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0884par0960	What motion did you vote for, Mr. President? We don't understand what you're reading.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0881par0961	According to the Civil Charter 72...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0885par0963	What's written here is a fraud.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0886par0964	I don't get it! What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0887par0965	What are you talking about, citizen? You're the fraud!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0885par0966	What's written here is a fraud!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0886par0968	What do you mean, "I'm going to kill you"?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0887par0969	You're the fraud! Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0888par0970	Mr. Vural... please, please, friends...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0887par0971	You don't know how the coven works, brother! He's a sucker for everything.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0889par0972	That's what he does.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0890par0973	Mr. President, you've taken a vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0889par0975	One moment, Mr. President... one moment...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0891par0976	It's all right, sir. Sit down.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0889par0977	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0892par0978	He should apologize, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0893par0979	You dirty man!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0894par0980	Mr. Vural, let me read it. I will submit to your votes according to the 72nd Amendment of the Civil Code: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0895par0982	Mr. President, tell me again who's not here, who's using fake votes. Let's celebrate them, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit06spe0894par0983	Now, before we get to the question-and-answer part, I'm gonna take a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0894par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 15th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks on all of the Law Bill 239 rows. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Now...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0896par0006	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I had a disciplinary request.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0894par0007	It will be processed, Mr. Tanal. Please, sit down. Now, we're going to do the QA for 20 minutes. In order, I'll make a promise to our friends who have entered the system.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0897par0009	How did you shut down the system?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0894par0010	I took a five-minute break, sir. I didn't hang up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0898par0011	There was a line, give it to me in order.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0894par0012	Of course, the system's shut down, but the list we've made is still there, the words of our friends who were quoted earlier.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0899par0013	If you read their names, they'll be in the system, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0894par0014	Now, if you want me to read it, I'll make no mistake. Mr. Özkan, he's in first place. Mr. Günal, Mr. Özensoy, Mr. Light, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Agababa, Mr. Akar, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0900par0016	Mr. President, Mr. Special is out, sir. It's right here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0894par0017	There's been a mistake, it's come back. They fixed the exit somewhere else. Mr. Özkan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0901par0019	Mr. President, thank you. The concerned minister is gone, but I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: The 6322 Act on delaying taxpayers' debts ended on October 30, 2012. In addition, debts were not paid due to the long holiday holiday, they were punished, both for economic straits and climate reasons, as well as for the producer's goods placed in the warehouses in the next few days. Do you intend to extend the revenues by three months, as in the sale of 2/B properties for the collection of debt without punishment? My second question, Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petting Minister, is here: When are you going to appoint veterinary physician, veterinary health technician, agricultural engineer, agricultural technician, food engineers who will be appointed at the end of 2011 under TAR-GEL? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0902par0023	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0903par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, while I've found you here, let me ask you a question, and I won't push it. How many living animals, karkas and half-carkas have been imported since October 2010? How much damage has our government suffered due to the removal of customs duties from this import? Does this have anything to do with tax increases? Second: Your ministry has been informed that many tasks have been carried out by proxy from the borough office to the highest level. Is that correct? If it's true, why can't you make an appointment? When are you going to do it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0904par0030	Thank you, Mr. Günal. Mr. Özensoy...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0905par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Bank of Agriculture is a bank founded to support the farmer. This bank's share in this pie in farmers' loans is getting smaller, and that's what we're seeing in our audits at the CIT Commission. More sad than that: Mr. General Manager stated that the latest audit would change the name of the Agriculture Bank and that its logo would also be changed, so the Bank of Agriculture would cease to be the farmer's bank altogether. Do you know about this? Now, what's your hurry with these financial markets, the factoring? Are you going to send the farmers to this factoring place as soon as possible? That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0906par0036	Thank you, Mr. Özensoy. Dear scholar Light...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0907par0038	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, for the record specifically. How many financial rentals, factoring and financing companies are still active in Turkey? How many of them are foreign partners? What is the origin of these foreign partners? How many homes have been destroyed because of them in Turkey? I would especially like you to explain the transcripts to this great House until the end of these law talks. Secondly, as it is known, sacrifice sales have victimized many of our people during this time of sacrifice. One year of hard work and waiting for the Festival of Sacrifice, animal manufacturers were devastated that they could not sell their sacrifices. How do you intend to resolve this matter? I don't want to ask about those who can't sacrifice, but how are you going to comfort the people who are left with the sacrifice?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0908par0042	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Private...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0909par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has changed. While our Minister of Agriculture is here, I'd like to ask you a question about his subject. Deaths continue, such as gold strawberries, hot pepper pills, which are sometimes contributed to the promotion of the country's political leaders, which have only been licensed correctly, under the name of the Agricultural Aid clause, which is applied to the Ministry of Agriculture, even though it is unable to obtain a license from the Ministry of Health. You were thinking of doing a study on this and making it possible for the Ministry of Health to hand over their licenses, and therefore to identify those who contain health-deprived or different chemicals. How's the work going on here?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0910par0047	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0911par0049	Thank you, Mr. President. Wake up the lawmakers who are sleeping in the back of the AKP at this time of night, Mr. President, or in such circumstances, it's really a chore to work.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0912par0051	Are you the manager?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0911par0052	Would you look in the back, brother? Look, here's...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0912par0053	Maybe. Are you the manager?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0913par0054	Mr. Tanal, ask your question, yes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0911par0055	So in that sense, please, make it right. The second question is: One MP has just made an offer on the stand for another MP to vote instead of those who didn't show up in the Constitution vote. That's all on the record. What do you intend to do about them as Acting Speaker? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0914par0058	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0915par0060	Mr. Secretary, I have recently traveled villages and plateaus in my constituency. On these plateaus, as you know, there's animalism; there's yogurt there, there's oil there. These plateaus have no roads, no electricity, no water, but they're being seriously manufactured. Also, the farmers there said to Mr. Minister, I ask you: last year the pair of sheep were 800 liras; now 300 lira; last year the weight of hay was 150 liras; now they say 700 liras. On Porga, on the plateaus of Lakedağ, people ask you, they say: "Is the Minister planning to take precautions on this matter? Is he thinking of us; he thinks of my farmers in Uruguay, who produce livestock in Argentina? They say, "Mr. Minister, is he able to sleep well in his bed?" Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0914par0062	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Akar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0916par0064	Mr. Secretary, I prepared the question for Babacan, but the Treasury plans to pay $18.6 billion in debt in 2013, including $139.6 billion in capital and $49 billion in interest. In response, he says he plans an internal debt of 150.6 billion euros and an external debt of 13.7. He plans to cover the remaining 24 billion from 2/B, funding and privatisation. As you can see, every year the state borrows both domestic debt and foreign debt, which means the burden of domestic and external debt is also increasing, as you can see from interest. However, the Prime Minister and your government, including you, when you say "outer debt," you only talk about the debt to the IMF, which you say will be repaid in a few years or so. Can you please tell the citizen the sum of the internal and external debts of the Republic of Turkey? How much of this is government debt, how much is private sector debt? I'd like you to say that clearly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0914par0065	Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0917par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, while you've been found, the Eskişehir Mihalgazi district of Alpagut has become a tornado prior to Ramadan Day and all agricultural products have been destroyed, but no help has been given to these agricultural products. I'd like to know where the work is, when the damage will be paid. And my second question, Mr. Vice President, is to tell you, how are you going to identify friends who voted for lawmakers who weren't here just now, and what are you going to do about them? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0918par0070	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0919par0072	Thank you, Mr. President. In the third joke of Article 73 of the Constitution, the Council of Ministers shall be given the authority to make changes above and below limits in its provisions concerning the immunity, exceptions and reductions of tax, image, mortar and similar financial obligations, which are stated to be put on by law, or to be replaced or removed by law. Even the Council of Ministers is granted limited authority in such a framework, while the BDDK is currently able to organise taxation with an administrative savings. Because the BDK is able to determine specific responses that can be downloaded from the tax matrix, without any amount and without a limit, so that it can determine its tax practices, its incomes. Clearly, as this violates the rule of law in taxation, Turkey's Parliament of the Grand National Assembly gives its authority not even to the Council of Ministers, but to the BDDK. Is that not contrary to the Constitution?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0918par0074	Mr. Dudu...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0920par0075	Mr. Minister, since 2007, the funding for earthquake taxes -- despite all the questions of the People's Party of the Republic and lawmakers -- has been spent on double roads, Mr. Finance Minister said a while ago. Now, a claim has been made that nearly 11 billion dollars collected at the Unemployment Insurance Fund have been transferred to businessmen, investors for investment incentives. I want to know how you relate this attitude to the seriousness of the state.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0918par0076	Mr. Secretary, please. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER, Mr. President... Of course, it requires a legal arrangement for the delay of the taxpayers' debts. And right now, there's no law proposals on this agenda. The Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Petting has a question again about when, how many employees he will receive. Our ministry employed over 14,000 technical employees during our administration, which we refer to as "TAR-GEL personnel," which is made up of those who live in villages with the farmer, who consult with them. In our government programme, at the end of 2012, there was a decree that these TAR-GEL personnel would be raised to 10,000, and we have now begun the process in accordance with this government programme, concerning the removal of this last 2,500. At the moment, the procedure is ongoing; in time, in time, I hope this program will be achieved. In this way, about 17,500 people will be taken during our administration. The last mass recruitment at the Ministry of Agriculture was in 1989, with 250 people; from 1989 to 2002, the Ministry of Agriculture had not received collective technical staff. In our administration, 15,000 people have been taken so far, and in the future, 2,500 more are being planned, which will already be shared with the public in the coming weeks.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0921par0080	These are subcontractors... These are technicians, veterinarians, agricultural engineers, food engineers, et cetera. Look, for example, when we arrived at the Ministry of Agriculture, there were 181 food engineers, 922 food engineers, and now they have 1,103, just food engineers, other majors, separate engineers, veterinary physicians, etc. As for meat and animal imports, I'll tell you this: on April 26, 2010, butchering was authorized by the Meat and Fish Association for the import of living animals and carcas meat. There's been another customs arrangement on them these days. For example, in the first ten months of 2012, all the living animals of Turkey's total production, even if we include all of the carcas meat, there is only 3.5 per cent imported, so there is only 3.5 per cent import. Thus, the total production of Turkey is considered to be around 1,100,000 tonnes of production, which includes a very small area. Some of the executives are run by power of attorney, right, some by power of attorney, mostly by district managers, branch managers. Because he's being tested by the central system. Therefore, there is not always a demand and conditions for noble appointment everywhere, and since there are no demands and conditions, there are some appointees, or if the terms are not carried out, there are also some governors who are acting in charge. But there was also a restructuring of our Ministry in 2011, during the 61st government, and they were appointed to the Ministry's Counsel to ensure that the rights of the department and its officers, including its governors, were not lost. Therefore, there is no shortage of our employees' rights or a loss of salary. Under current legislation and laws, they continue to function. Mr. Özensoy's share of the Bank of Agriculture is reduced, and the farmer's bank is no longer a bank, but it does not reflect the facts. Let me put it this way...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0922par0086	And the General Manager told me on the CIT Commission, how does it not reflect the facts? Now, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, in the name of the government. You asked me a question, and I'm answering it. There's no such procedure. I get it, but it doesn't reflect the truth...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0923par0089	So what the Director-General of Agriculture says doesn't reflect the facts. Mr. President, would you care to step in? If he's giving the answers to those questions, then he doesn't have to ask questions, I've been asked questions, and I'm answering them as a member of the government. Unless you don't like it, it's your business, I'm giving you the information. Look, when we came to the government, the Agriculture Bank was lending $226-227 million to the Turkish farmer.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0924par0093	Don't advertise, answer the questions, Mr. Secretary. No, no, that's the answer to your question. It's not advertising, look, 227 million; why is it touching you? At 59 per cent interest, the Turkish farmer was given $227m in loans.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0925par0095	So what was the inflation? Now... inflation was 35 percent. No way! Yes, yes, yes... no, that's not true. This year's loan to the Turkish farmer was used through the Agriculture Bank and agriculture loans, which is 22.3 billion dollars in 2011, which is 22.3 quadrillion in old money. The interest rate is not 59 per cent, but between 0 and 5 per cent, some of which are 22.3 billion dollars, with interest rates between 0 and 7.5%. Now I'm asking you, my valued lawmakers: Is there an increase in loans from the Agriculture Bank to the Turkish farmer, is there a reduction? Is it less or less effective? Tell me if the bank is being sold or not. So with $529 million loans, at 59 percent interest, if this went up to $22.3 billion, if there was an increase of more than 40 stories? Tell me if the bank logo changes its name or not. If interest falls from 59% to 7.5%, is it an arrangement in favor of the farmer or an arrangement against him? That's what our people appreciate. One more thing I have to say about this matter, valuable lawmakers, and this is also very important; and listen very carefully to this: the return rate of the loan from the agricultural bank in 2002 -- including loans -- was 38 percent -- was that the Bank of Agriculture could only take back $38 of the 100 of the money he gave the farmer. It's in government records. Today, it's reached 98-99 percent, so it uses $22.3 billion in loans, giving back 99 percent.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0926par0106	He's taking over, taking the citizen's house, taking his field. Now, here, who worked for who? How much credit did who give to whom? What was the interest? It's all in the records, it's all in the records.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0925par0108	The bank is being sold, Mr. Secretary. You make noise when you don't come to work. That's not true.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0926par0110	You gave away $2,000 worth of animal for 6,000 lira, and now it's being carried out, Mr. Secretary. So, dear MPs, let me present this to your knowledge.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0925par0113	The bank's being sold, you don't know it! We will answer other questions in writing as time is running out.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0116	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0117	Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0120	Mr. President, I'd like to present something. We're under the roof of a high-profile organization like the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. A fraud has just been committed; a decision has been asked to be sufficient, and six false votes have been used. Do you intend to do anything as Speaker of Parliament about those who committed this fraud in the face of this false vote? Will you clear the council's name?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0122	There's a petition, Mr. Halaçoglu. I'll tell you in a moment.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0123	It's got a name, but do the compasses keep a secret? How are the compasses being used?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0929par0124	Mr. President, let's ask the AKP people for IDs from now on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0125	Sir, just a second... the names have already been filed.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0126	It doesn't matter if it's in the report. Do you think you could do some research on who was using it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0930par0127	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0128	Now, Mr. Halaçoglu, there's a petition, I'll tell you when the time is right. There are, there are, there are names.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0129	You can tell who's from the Scriptures. Do you keep these?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0930par0130	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0131	The names have been filed, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0132	Names came up, but who used them to make those names? What about the ballots on this?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0133	He's undetectable, you know. (MHP rows) Give me a second, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0134	There's a signature on the roll call sheet, and there's a name.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0135	Sir...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0136	There's a signed name on the roll call sheet.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0137	Kavas are gathering, bringing; there's no way of detecting it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0928par0138	But the article will be detected, Mr. President; do a search on it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0139	But they threw them away. He's not here because he's on the books.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0931par0140	Roll-call papers and then, uh...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0932par0141	Do you keep roll-call papers?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0142	We'll see about that later.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0931par0143	If there is, they'll look.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0144	And then there's the petition.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0933par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0146	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0933par0147	Mr. President, while Mr. Secretary was responding earlier, Mr. Özensoy said he didn't reflect the facts. Among the questions I've asked are the general manager's statements on the name of the Bank of Agriculture and the changes of its logo, and this is an improvement that the Bank of Agriculture is preparing for sale; I asked him, and he didn't answer that either. That's what I want to know.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0148	He's on the books, Mr. Özensoy.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0934par0149	Mr. President, let my statement go on the record and...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0150	Aye. He's on the books. There's a petition, sir. I'll read it now. Don't worry, it's okay.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0934par0152	Roll-call ballots, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0935par0153	Don't let it get lost, Mr. President, the compasses...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0154	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0936par0155	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0161	Members of parliament, there is a motion for a clear vote on the transfer of the bill to the articles, to read the motion and call the signatories: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose an open vote during the transfer of the Law Bill 239 rows to the articles. Scholar Illum, Kütahya MP? Here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0937par0165	I'm here, sir. I can show you some ID if you want.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0166	Enver Erdem, Elazig MP? Here. Amin Çınar, Kastamon MP? Here. Ali Halaman, Adana MP? Here. Oktay Vural, İzmir MP? Here. Kemalettin Yilmaz, Afyonkarahisar MP? Here. Muharrem Varlı, Adana MP? Here. Ali Öz, Mersin MP? Here. Seyfettin Yilmaz, Adana MP? Here. Necati Özensoy, Bursa MP? Here. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP? Here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0938par0176	I can show you some ID if you want.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0177	Sinan Oğan, Iğdır MP? Here. Bulent Belen, Tekirdağ MP? Here. Yusuf Halaçoglu, Kayseri MP? Here. Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0939par0181	I can handle it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0182	Mr. Celal Adan... Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP? Here. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP? Here. Mehmet Erdogan, Mudla MP? Here. You did, Lightning, Samsun MP? Here. Mesut Dedeoğlu, Kahramanmarash MP? Here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0940par0188	He's got the cameras, sir, so they're here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0189	I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll open the vote with the electronics. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0193	Yes, it's over, Mr. President, time's up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0927par0195	Members of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers shall begin with the members who have asked for an open vote first to vote on Article 143. At least 15 of the motion holders are not present at the General Assembly Hall or the missing signature is not accepted by any member of parliament or if they do not take part in the vote, the motion for an open vote is dropped, he says. Therefore, the open voting system will be reduced if it is voted 160 votes, if it is performed by the Isari vote. By 160 votes, it has been agreed that the bill be passed by the Isari vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0197	Mr. President, wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. President, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0942par0198	Then why did you go to the vote, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0199	Mr. President, has it been determined that the lawmakers who called for an open vote were here?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0943par0200	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0201	Accepted?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0943par0202	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0203	Do you have 20 MPs? I do.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0943par0204	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0205	160 plus 20...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0943par0206	They didn't vote, but...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0207	Sir, it's already been accepted. That's not gonna happen! He's already adding that. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0944par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0209	That's not gonna happen! That's what you're adding! That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0944par0210	Mr. President, there's no request for a roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0941par0211	What kind of a thing is that? It's considered a vote. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0945par0212	He doesn't have a roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0944par0213	There's no request for roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0946par0214	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Elitaş, yes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0947par0215	You've identified our presence here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0944par0216	Mr. President, is this a motion or a vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0947par0217	Starting with those who ask for an open vote, he says.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0944par0218	Mr. President, the Civil Code is clear and clear.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0948par0219	Put your hand on your conscience.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0949par0220	It's not possible! There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0948par0221	Let Elitaş rule, Elitaş! Go down from there, and let Elitaş sit there.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0950par0222	Mr. President, the fact that this didn't happen so far doesn't rule out the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0949par0223	We can't possibly accept that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0951par0224	Doesn't that say open vote starts with people who want it? So they start with us.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0952par0225	A fake vote came out tonight, a fake envelope, a fake charter...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0953par0226	Mr. President, if a member of the political party asks for a roll call, the situation is different, the moment they call for an open vote. As a matter of fact, the Civil Code is clear on Article 143.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0951par0227	Read it, read it, read it well.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0954par0228	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0953par0229	If 15 MPs petition for an open vote, they'll vote on starting with them first.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0955par0230	He counted one by one when it started.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0953par0231	If they don't enter, the motion for an open vote is dropped. The absence of this practice so far does not mean there is no Civil Code decree.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0956par0232	Mr. President, look, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the applications of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's never been an app like this until today. Look, it says here...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0957par0233	The vote begins. He says.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0956par0234	See, the first thing to start the vote is from members who ask for an open vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0957par0235	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0956par0236	At least 15 of those who have a proposal are not found in the General Assembly Hall... there is here... you will look for this, there is one here! How the hell did this happen? They're here...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0958par0237	Keep reading the article!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0959par0238	But, go on, look... okay, you're right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0960par0239	There's one here, you asked, we said here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0961par0240	Look, if they don't get accepted by any congressman or participate in the ballots...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0959par0241	If they don't...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0961par0242	So...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0962par0243	Unsolicited.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0961par0244	Mr. President, is that possible?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0963par0245	Sir, we're reading. Your Grace, I'm not saying anything. That's the information I was given. But, you counted, we said yes one by one, we've already shown that we're here. Oh, I'm not pushing it, bro. What do we do, come on, decide.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0964par0248	When he says "or," the vote is... look, you've already spotted me here, Zen. But the open vote...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0965par0249	What more does he say about the open vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0963par0250	No, you're correct as a roll call...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0966par0251	Would an open vote go down? Is it an open vote? It's a clear vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0967par0252	Shame on you! It's not worth it, it's not worth it!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0968par0253	Then why did you get the open vote if it fell? Why did you get an open vote? So he didn't fall. So he didn't fall. Why did you vote? I mean, you really blew it, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0969par0254	Mr. President, take a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0967par0255	Are you acting under orders from the Deputy Director of the Group? Well, what do you know?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0968par0256	Mr. President, let Elistash sit down, you get up from there! Or he won't be able to figure it out! You got the vote, it didn't fall! You wouldn't have made me do it! He fell. He says! Then why is he making me vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0967par0258	Mr. President, no, no...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0968par0259	You're making history today, history!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0967par0260	Mr. President, there is no such thing. Now I'm here to challenge you. Show me one example, show me one example, show me one...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0970par0261	There are two examples, so what?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0967par0262	No, no, no. There's no such thing. That's not gonna happen. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0971par0263	So this isn't fraud? They're full of fakes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0972par0265	Yeah, I'm not trying to do anything.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0967par0266	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit07spe0972par0267	Yeah, we're not getting anywhere with this stuff, guys. That's what they gave me. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0972par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 15th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue the talks on all of the Law Bill 239 rows. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0973par0005	Mr. President, it's all over. We'll pick up where we left off. The negotiations on all of them are over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0974par0006	You're giving instructions!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0973par0007	The talks are all over, we'll resume the negotiations where we left off.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0975par0008	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0976par0009	We were just voting for him. It's not over. It's not over. We'll pass, we'll vote to pass, that's the argument.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0975par0010	We voted to transfer it to its terms.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0976par0011	There's no discussion there yet.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0977par0012	No, we didn't vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0976par0013	We haven't voted yet.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0978par0014	The information I've been given is 184 votes, as long as we count the friends who participated in the roll call.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0979par0015	Do you count fakes, too, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0978par0016	If they don't vote, it's 164 votes, read the names of all four, they're already here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0980par0017	Are you in on it, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0978par0018	No.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0981par0019	He can't vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0978par0020	Mr. Minister Zafer has used Mehdi Eker, acting as minister to Çağlayan. Mehmet's here, Giresun?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0982par0022	Here, here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0978par0023	Mr. Aksak, Erzurum?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0983par0024	Where? No.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0984par0025	No. He must have fallen, Mr. President. He's down, he's down... 183, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0985par0026	One vote down. He fell, he fell, so good luck.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0983par0027	Come on, Mayor, have a nice day.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0984par0028	No, no. He's gonna take a break. He's gonna vote again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0985par0029	Read the other one, maybe you'll drop it again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0986par0030	Gürsoy Erol, İstanbul... Your neighbor Aksak, Erzurum... Mehmet's here, Giresun... He replaced Zafer Çağlan with Mr. Mehdi Eker, our Minister.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0987par0034	Okay, no Muyyettin, 183.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0988par0035	183, 183.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0989par0036	Mr. President, there's Mr. Reza.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0988par0037	183, that doesn't count.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0990par0038	Force him to use it?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0991par0039	Mr. President, 183...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0992par0040	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0990par0041	Mr. President, don't push it. We're voting again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0993par0042	It's 184 with me, yeah.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0994par0043	183, over.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0995par0044	Mr. President, there are no majority...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0993par0045	Sorry, just a second... yeah...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0994par0046	Yeah. Sir, explain the vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0996par0047	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0993par0048	Wait a minute... listen, I'll explain.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0997par0049	Explain as Speaker.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0993par0050	Sir, just a second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0998par0051	You appear to be in attendance, but you can't vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0993par0052	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0999par0053	In the previous session, you have stated that according to the Civil Code 143/3, the vote has dropped due to an open vote and has been approved.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1000par0054	It wasn't said, it wasn't done.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0999par0055	We've just completed the negotiations on the whole, and we're not going to...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1001par0057	No, it's not like that!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1000par0058	No such thing, Mr. Elitaş! You don't run the House! You don't run the coven! Counting, 183 out!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe0999par0059	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1001par0060	Mr. President, don't force your goodwill.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1002par0061	Is the vice president running this coven, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1001par0062	You followed the tradition of Congress. 183 with 20 MPs. Since the meeting is not enough, you must recess for a new vote. It's that obvious.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1003par0063	He's going to vote again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1004par0064	Mr. President, I've asked you if there's an open vote here, or if there's a request for a roll call. I insisted. You said you wanted an open vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1005par0065	Yes, in writing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1004par0066	The motion for an open vote was submitted in writing, and they demanded an open vote. I insisted on asking here whether it was a roll call or an open vote. You said open vote. The open vote is Civil Code 143 is already clear and clear. Why are we even discussing this?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1006par0067	We have one false vote, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1004par0068	No fake votes.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1006par0069	There it is!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1007par0070	Mr. President, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1004par0071	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1008par0072	Wait a second... Mr. Vural, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1009par0074	Mr. President, in every open vote we've ever held in the House, you've accepted and done according to it. There are also four compasses in accordance with the law. You said, "It's 184. If it was 184, the meeting would have been enough...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1010par0075	If you love your God, leave it at this time, Mr. Elitaş! Let's get to the law!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1009par0076	...but you've read, since we don't have a friend, 183, you must renew the vote. It's that obvious. There's no point in discussing it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1011par0077	There's nothing else. It's as simple as that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1012par0078	It's that obvious.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1013par0079	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1014par0080	Sir, open up a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1015par0081	No, no, no!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1016par0082	Why would he argue the way he does?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1015par0083	Sir, this is a...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1017par0084	Let's hear it for Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1015par0086	Mr. President, please don't make them.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1017par0087	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1018par0088	Mr. President, you just announced the number 183. You have stated that there is one missing number from the 184 issue required by the open vote. There's no point in discussing the procedure anymore.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1019par0089	It's okay, we'll vote again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1018par0090	Therefore, you must renew the vote. There's no point in discussing the procedure.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1020par0091	It's that obvious, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1021par0092	Open a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1020par0093	There's nothing to do with the procedure, sir, the vote is final, it's not your application, it's about votes. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1021par0094	Mr. President, your decision is final. As Turkey closes the Grand National Assembly, the whole bill is approved... and you have agreed to move on to the provisions of the bill, and you have closed it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1022par0095	It's not closed, Mr. President, vote again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1021par0096	You're closed. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1023par0098	Sir, if you've closed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then we don't need to meet right now. Does that mean he's turned it off? He's closed the hearing, Mr. President, the House is not closed, it's working.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1024par0099	Mr. President, you said that you met Mr. Oktay Vural's request for a sufficient number of decisions around 7:00 p.m. Yes, the decision asked for a sufficient number. You said. You made statements according to him.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1025par0100	He asked for an open vote, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1026par0101	Wait a minute!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1027par0102	That's before that, that's before that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1028par0103	If you listen to me, you must have jumped. Then the hearing was suspended, and you re-opened it. You gave up that statement because it wasn't the truth, even though it was in the reports. Mr. Elitaş supported the statement that you gave up, not the statement in the report. Now, in a very opposite manner, he would like to take credit for your mispronounced statement in the transcripts, even though you have declared that the meeting is not enough. There's no way that's acceptable. There is no subject for a formal debate.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1029par0105	That wasn't a decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1030par0106	Let's vote again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1031par0107	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1032par0108	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1031par0109	Mr. President, look, I'm reading from the transcript: ▪ President - 160 votes have been passed on the terms of the bill by the Isari vote. Oktay Vural - Mr. President, one minute, one minute... Mr. President, one minute... Then why did you vote, Mr. President? Oktay Vural - Mr. President, has it been determined that lawmakers demanding an open vote are here? - Yes. Oktay Vural - Accepted? Yes. Are there 20 MPs? I do. - Yes. They didn't participate in the vote, but... Sir, it's already been accepted. At that time, you took a break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1033par0123	Okay, it's already been accepted.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1034par0124	How did he turn it off? When did he close it? Look, it's going on.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1033par0125	Okay, that's right, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1035par0126	You've continued the process. We're going back to where we left off. If there's any objection to this, let's have a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1033par0127	No, Mr. President, what you're doing is correct, you're saying: you're assuming there is. You're saying 160+20, 180. There's a compass at 4, you've read it, you've completed the process. One is missing, over. What else is there to discuss? There's no objection to that.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1035par0128	Mr. President, I asked you loud and clear, I warned you, I said: open vote or roll call?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1036par0129	Mr. President, instead of yelling, let's go get some men. What's he been talking about for two hours? Go get some men.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1037par0130	Now, dear friends, we...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1038par0131	Mr. President, look, false votes are different with missing votes. It's a fake vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1036par0132	Mr. President, you're going to vote again, so if there are any friends in the meantime, let him come and wait.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1039par0133	Mr. President, he's giving you a compass, even though he's not a man.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1040par0134	Mr. President, I'd like to insist on a formal discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1041par0135	Mr. President, I beg of you, you have initiated the procedure, the vote has been taken.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1040par0136	Mr. President, I'd like to discuss the procedure according to 63.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1042par0137	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1043par0138	There is no such thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1040par0139	Mr. President, I'd like to discuss the procedure according to 63.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1044par0140	Report the decision on the vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1045par0141	There's a demand, let's have a discussion.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1046par0142	What does that have to do with anything? Is that the way to vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1045par0143	Here you go. It happens all the time, you know.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1046par0145	The outcome of the vote is not the way to go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1047par0146	Don't surrender, please don't surrender, stand by your decision.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1045par0147	Yeah, we're not surrendering. If any group of vice presidents wants a formal debate, it's customary to open it. I'll open it. Here you go. Give it to him, we'll talk.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1048par0151	What about the procedure?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1049par0152	Mr. President, in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1048par0153	I want it in favor, too, in favor.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1050par0154	Against you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1051par0155	Against Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1052par0156	In favor of your current attitude.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1053par0157	I said it, Mr. President, I said it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1051par0158	Against Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1054par0159	Lehte.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1051par0160	Mr. Special and Mr. Elitaş. Mr. Elitaş, here you are.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1055par0163	Mr. President, for God's sake, if we're going to go, we're not going, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1056par0164	You took a vote, you made him read the absents, the compass. You took a vote, you read four compasses, you don't have one man, you have to close, you have to take a break.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1057par0167	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1055par0168	Let's discuss the law! Let's discuss the law! It's three o'clock!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1058par0169	Is that so much fraud?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1059par0170	Please, if you'll just shut up, let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0171	Mr. President, please, will they let me speak? Give me a heads-up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1061par0172	Mr. Elitaş, let's discuss the law. Since we stayed until three o'clock tonight, let's discuss the law! It's a shame! It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0173	You're right, I agree, I agree.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1061par0174	It's been eight hours...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1062par0175	Why don't you vote? Get some men instead of talking here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0176	We haven't seen the law in five hours, and you're right.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1062par0177	Send someone over and wake them up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0178	Dear MPs, look, Mr. President just closed the session, just as I read it. He said, "It's agreed." I'm reading Article 143 of the Civil Code, the relevant joke.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1063par0179	That's our Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0180	I yell there, I say, Mr. President, do they want an open vote, do they want a roll call? There's 15 signatures in the open vote, and when 20, I warn you again from there whether it's an open vote or a roll call. Mr. President says it's an open vote. 143 clearly and clearly, there's no point in discussing this, says: At least fifteen of the owners of the proposals are not present in the General Assembly's office or if they are not accepted by any member of parliament or do not participate in the votes, they are asked to take an open vote. That's what Mr. Haydar says. How do you start with the proposed owners?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1064par0181	He described it, it's a recipe for those who don't understand.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0182	The president has given them three minutes, and in three minutes, they must hurry and enter. So, excuse me, dear friends, but you're going to sit here virtually, you're going to call for an open vote, you're not going to vote, and then you're going to tell Mr. President that's wrong.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1065par0183	You didn't put your votes in the box, that counts. He goes into the box. He says.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1066par0184	Do you believe that yourself?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0185	Two: Look, the following are: If, Mr. President, if there is a compassing MP, if there is a vote, the MPs who voted first should not leave the General Assembly at the time of the vote. But neither in the previous vote nor in the current vote should the MPs leave the General Assembly. He did not give a warning. A congressman friend of ours may have needed it. Our congressman might think that our friend here has been playing the game and he's gone away and he's closing. When we look at it that way, the President must give this warning. Mr. President, since he hasn't already issued this warning, he should accept the compasses here. In that sense, the valued MPs ask, "Have the Article 143 of the Civil Code been implemented so far?"
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1066par0186	What do you do for a living, group vice presidents? You look ridiculous.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1060par0187	So, just because you haven't read the relevant clause of this Civil Code until now, does not mean that the Civil Code will not be implemented. There are many different provisions in the Civil Code. If you read these provisions, frankly, you'll see what's what. The decision the presidency made before closing the session is the right decision. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1067par0190	In this House, you're not the only one who knows about this Civil Code, Mr. Mustafa Elitaş, everyone knows, you're the only one who doesn't.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1068par0191	He knows, but he knows they all know the same.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1069par0192	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1070par0193	How do you vote for the first 15 men, Mustafa Bey?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1071par0194	How are we going to vote before Mr. Mustafa?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1070par0195	Is that even a thing?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1072par0196	Mr. Hamzacebi, please, sir, it's about to go against you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1073par0197	Mr. President, we've started the meeting of the bill at 11:15 p.m. Now it's quarter to three. We haven't even started interviewing chapter one yet. Talks continue in a tense environment. Thank you very much for providing us with this tense and decent environment, the ruling group's vice presidents!
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1074par0198	You're welcome.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1073par0199	The success of prolonging such an important law here is undoubtedly the ruling party, making it a subject of tension and debate, when it can be passed here by compromise. When we have no motion in any of the articles, 54 of the 54 articles are now in motion. I'd like to thank the vice president of the ruling party, again, for being more together because of this extension. It'll affect our shift next week. In the Capital Market Law, we might not have any proposals, but now we'll have 150 or so motions. I want to thank the ruling party deputy leader for this more tie, and I wish you all the best. May they exist, thanks to this fine working environment. Now, one becomes sincere. He says to the President of the ruling party: you, according to your statement in the report, have explained there are 160. You said, you said, the motion has dropped the motion for open voting demand. Well, I just said from where I was sitting -- on foot, rather than there -- I said that at about 1900 hours, Mr. Oktay Vural was asking for an open vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1075par0202	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1073par0203	In fact, Mr. President asked for a sufficient number of decisions, yes, the decision demanded a sufficient number, although Oktay Vural. It was in the reports, so if everything was based on the report, why didn't you accept it there? People are consistent, for one thing.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1076par0204	That's what Ercijas looked like.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1073par0205	Also, in Article 143, if you were to take his fourth joke, you would also have to enter people who had asked for an open vote on the electronic vote. If you call it an open vote, then the third joke says that the vote must be first started by people who ask for an open vote. So, Mr. President has to call in an invitation to enter the electronic system before the vote can begin, to those who request an open vote. Without that done, it's not possible to go to the last joke, or rather the fourth joke, and it's not true. Mr. President made the right statement last time. 183 remain, and that's the end of it. The vote must be renewed. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But, of course, since he's shown a determined will to extend these negotiations, the ruling party's deputy chief of staff, we can do more procedural debates here. You know, there's no limit to the procedural debate, genius during a motion meeting... Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1077par0211	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1073par0212	Even during the discussion of any motion, the lawmakers may open a discussion of procedure and there is no way for the Speaker of Parliament to refuse the request to discuss the procedure. We can use this opportunity constantly, it's possible. I mean, now, the ruling party is looking for a way out of here by opening up a class debate, but this one's gonna come back like a boomerang and shoot you again. And we can continue the procedural debate until morning, at every motion. We can ask for the number of decisions in each motion. All these things are possible. I wish you the best. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1078par0216	In favor of being in favor of Mr. Special...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1079par0217	Mr. President, I asked for it in favor. I wanted it here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1080par0218	Mr. President, it's mine against you.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1079par0219	I asked for it, it's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1080par0220	You don't have a Mr. Special, Mr. Special came out later, so let's take a look at the transcripts, folks. Where did this come from again, Mr. Special? I don't get it. I got up first. It's everywhere.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1081par0222	When you say Lehte... you asked for Lehte? Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1080par0223	Mr. President, I raised my hand before anyone else, so I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1081par0224	Now, wait a second...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1080par0225	The clerks are here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1081par0226	That's right, but when Mr. Hamzacebi spoke against you, I was going to give it to you in favor, then against you, for him. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1082par0228	Is he against us, sir?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1081par0229	Okay...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1083par0230	No, we already bought it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1084par0231	Thank you, Mr. President, of course, it's not a procedure, it's an application, because you've called enough for a meeting. You were supposed to call 184 votes when there was an open vote. So, you said 160 plus 20, and 4 said there were compasses, but when you read the compasses, one friend appeared to be not here, 183 turned out to be. So since the meeting wasn't enough, you had to take another vote. What you're doing on this subject is perfectly accurate. Besides, that's the way it's always been. It says here that the Civil Charter is thrown into the box. We're putting it in a box? No. If I bring an open vote with 15 MPs, will you accept it? No. So, when there's practice here, when this app has not brought any discussion, you can put up an argument over this, so it could be. In fact, 184 signatures could've been signed, 184 would've been contested? No. Okay, it's accepted. We were going to say, If he'd come out. But since you haven't, this application is correct. So far, this debate about this open vote is an unnecessary argument. Thus, the will demanding an open vote expressed that he was here. So you put it as a plus. 184 hasn't been found, and when you're not found, you'll have another vote. Now that 183 is out, we'll continue the next time 184 MPs are here. In this regard, I think you've done the right thing, since it's been earned by you in the Parliament by the practice of this Article 143. The decision has already been made because you say 183, so you can no longer make this 183 to 184. So, since you can't do it, I'd like to point out that this argument of procedure is just a waste of time. We actually had a motion on three or four articles, and now we have a motion on every item. We're going to ask for an open vote on every issue, and we're going to ask for one in every motion, obviously. So, if there's a task for the members of the group, in accordance with the scope of this House, I'd like to say that as the National Movement Party, we're always ready to carry it out, but unfortunately with this kind of imposition, there's no point, there's no point, there's no point. What if you vote in five minutes? What if you find 184 again in five minutes? For him, we've had an extremely unnecessary discussion... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And today, the Deputy Speaker is very tired, and he's always very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very,
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1085par0236	You guys have been arguing all the time since you got here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1084par0237	But I believe we're right, Mr. President. Therefore, your practice in accordance with the customs of the House. I think you should forward the request for a re-interview meeting to the General Assembly. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1086par0239	Mr. Günal, come in.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't agree with what Mr. Vural said. If it says here, you're not going to fall in 183, you're going to fall in five, it says here. Why are you applying 20, Mr. President? Since the Civil Code is so...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1088par0243	You signed 20 people.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0244	Mr. Elitaş can file 20 petitions if he wants to. He will call at least fifteen of them to the vote. Look, read it well, read what you just read again, read it again.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0246	You're petitioning 20 people. If there were 30 people, 30 people would read there. You'll know that, you'll give me 15.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0247	He'll call for a vote. If there's no vote, if you don't accept 20 people there...
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0248	He'll read 50 if you give him 50.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0249	Look, I'll read it from here if you want.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0250	He'll read 50 if you give him 50.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0251	50 people can do it. If at least fifteen of them didn't participate in the vote... look here, at least fifteen... it says, you'll count 15 of them, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0252	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0253	You're counting 20, and you're counting 15 in the next vote.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0254	If you write 30 people, they'll count 30.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0255	So you'll find another five.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0256	Learn the Open Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0257	You will, Mr. President. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to ask you to renegotiate.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1089par0258	Now you've learned the Civil Code, Günal.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1087par0259	Thank you, I'm against it.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1090par0261	Sir, now, we're done discussing the procedure. My dear friends, don't leave me hanging. There's a verdict here. We're all sane people. Let's get together and come to a compromise.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1091par0263	Don't say the same thing about everyone, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1090par0264	One second, one second, please, I'm talking to the group presidents. Let's get together and see if we can come to some kind of compromise. Come on back, please.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1092par0266	Mr. President, what happened to the vote, what happened with the vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1093par0267	Taking a little break?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1090par0268	I'd like to ask the members of the group. I'll call the group's vice presidents in the back. Please tell me you're here.
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1092par0269	What was the result of the vote?
tbmm-2012-11-01sit08spe1090par0270	I'm not telling you the outcome of the vote right now. I'll sit down and see you. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
