tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 47th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive commitment is to İstanbul MP Türkan Dağoğlu, who asked for the appointment of Verem War Week. Here you go, Mr. Mountainoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to speak off the agenda on the week of the War and Education with TB. I salute you all. TB continues to be a serious public health problem in the world. Each year, about 9 million people suffer from tuberculosis, and one third of the world's population is infected with tuberculosis. TB was the first cause of death in the 1940s and 50s in our country; successful studies were performed between 1953 and 70 years, controlled, but after this was explained, studies were relaxed, and the disease began to grow again from 1977. In 1993, the World Health Organization declared a state of emergency for tuberculosis due to the weakening of governments' TB programs and rapidly increasing cases. In our country, since 2003, the National Tüberculosis Control Programme has been under the same standard as the Global Control Programme, which has been implemented by the World Health Organization since 2003. This program consists of three digits. The first is: in the presidency of the Tuberculosis War Office, TB clinics, family health centers, community health centers and all health institutions and institutions are planning, running, and watching. Second: Since 2003, the World Health Organization has proposed a direct-supervised treatment strategy. What's this? The strategy for direct treatment is for the patient to take his medications under the supervision of an informed and authorized officer during all treatments and to register this situation. Third: From 2010, the distribution of tuberculosis drugs is provided free of charge from institutions that provide health care in the first, second and third digits, although there is no social security, and this has begun to be provided and distributed by the office of the Verem War Office. As a result, access to service has been eased under the Tuberculosis Control Programme, a direct-supervised treatment strategy has been implemented, risky groups have been set up, society has been informed about disease and patient rights, and all health care providers have been allowed to participate in the fight against consumption. The World Health Organization's goal for the spread of tuberculosis is to cut its target by half by 2015 compared to 1990. In 1990, Turkey was reduced to 52 in a hundred thousand, and in 2010 it was reduced to 24 in a hundred thousand, so it was achieved five years before it was predicted. Turkey is ranked third in the ranking of 53 countries in the European region for the success of the World Health Organization on the success of new spread positive phenomena in 2010. The results have shown that as part of the National Health Transformation Programme, this issue has been successfully implemented and has also been achieved. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Mountainoglu. The second non-responsive statement is in the Istanbul MP Mr. Oktay Ekshi, who has asked for media talks to attract the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the public. Here you go, Mr. Sour.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've come before you to pay attention to a wound that has been bleeding for a long time, but you, especially our deputies from the Justice and Development Party, have ignored. I have to admit, I'm not too optimistic that I can move your consciences, but I still don't want to be desperate. Dear MPs, friends of the Justice and Development Party in particular, you went public with the party you founded in August 2001. You promised this country more freedom than we've ever seen. You have come to power with the promise of a better democracy and a more serious state of law than before. Today, when we left the ninth year of your rule behind, Turkey's name changed to the largest journalist prison in the world. Now I'm going to repeat what even the street man knows, so I'm not going to talk about how Turkish journalists coveted the freedom of their colleagues in the countries where cannibals lived just three generations ago. If you'd like, I can present the list of these countries immediately. Generally accepted international measurements say a Turkish journalist is not as free as his colleague in Mongolia, Tajikistan, and Bangladesh, thanks to the ruling of the Justice and Development Party. I'm curious, don't you see these facts? How can you suppress the voice of your conscience if you can see it? I see, your spokesman says our democracy has improved in the Justice and Development Party's rule, and many of the things that were taboo before are now easily handled and written, they say. In a way, they're accurate. In fact, in the past years, our armed forces, who have been granted the privilege of immunity, now, everyone is saying everything that comes into their mouth because the armed forces are no longer the focus of power. Well, since everyone's so free, would you please tell me, is there anyone in Turkey who can write anything that might piss off the Prime Minister today? Is there anyone among you who doesn't ask for forgiveness through effective remorse when you realize that you may have angered the Prime Minister? Let's be clear, my friends, that freedom exists when you express your thoughts, your criticism, with confidence in the face of the ruling master. Not only the Prime Minister, but no one can write a congregation that everyone knows is your secret partner in power today, and you are even afraid of that congregation now, because if you want to see who was thrown into the Silivri, who were the defendants of the Oda TV case, why were arrested, please see. Dear MPs, especially you friends of the Justice and Development Party, see, no longer believe that you are committed to democracy. There is not a single official report, a single respected professional organisation, which speaks positively of freedom of expression in Turkey. What the European Union, the Council of Europe, the European Security and Co-operation Organization say about this is too heavy to say in a fight. As a friend, my friends, your name has come up. As a matter of fact, even Professor Isil Karakaş, who was brought to the European Court of Human Rights on the recommendation of your power, has finally expressed his rebellion, saying "Turkey is the worst state in freedom of expression, freedom of the press." Again, I ask your consciences, is this the Turkey you promised us and, rather, the Turkish people? How many of you will raise your hand if I say so? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0005par0039	Thank you, Mr. Sour. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Isparta MP Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, who asked about the situation of civil officers in the Turkish Armed Forces. Here you go, Mr. Korkmaz.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0006par0044	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. At the beginning of my words, our country's integrity, our nation's unity, my deepest gratitude, my love to all of its military-military personnel, from the recruits of our veteran army, who have sacrificed and martyred in the fight against terrorism. Indeed, we live in a geography without pardon, dear friends. It's the name of the land, the land, where the unsustainable tribes are destroyed. Our greatest strength in this geography is our army. I think it's best if we don't make policy over the military, don't commit abuse, everyone has to have a red line. Dear lawmakers, civil servants within the Armed Forces, who have been trying to make their voices known to our Parliament for some time, want to work together with military personnel in an honorable, civilized working environment and get their rights to the level of life they deserve. First, they wish their status to be properly defined, valued lawmakers. Are these friends of ours soldiers or civilians? If they're in military status, you'll share in the blessings and burdens of all military personnel. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're not going to pay enough money for a civilian, you're going to eliminate the opportunities for promotion, you're going to reduce your job satisfaction to a minimum, and you're not going to see the original element of service in the same institution, and you're going to punish them as if they were soldiers. There's no way that can be accepted in this day and age. I'm sure that the transfer of relations in the institution to a civilized line, improving working conditions and fees will boost the motivation of the entire institution, not just civil servants. I think it's best that our commanders know their specialty is motivation, motivation, and management. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid the questions I asked Mr. Secretary during the budget negotiations have been unanswered. I would like to repeat these questions and ask the Minister for his answers: 1) Civilian personnel, like military personnel, want to take advantage of the right to operational service, the application of overtime. How does your government feel about that? Is there any study in your Ministry to grant these rights? 2) There are military and civil servants who work in the same environment; they have different rights, as you say, equal wages for equal work. Do you have any work to settle these fees? If not, why are you just sharing the burden and not the blessing? Why is it that these personnel are subject to Law 926 and military judgment where they have no results, even though they are not soldiers? In some units, practices have become so personal that they are even applied to exfil with soldiers, and why? 3) Only 5 per cent of the residents are assigned to civil servants. And you can't explain that as a major-important personnel distinction. Look, there are so many civil servants that they're in very strategic locations and they're in a position of life-threatening danger. Do you have any work to do to get some more of these residences to civil servants? When are you going to end the injustices they face in service vehicles, the obstacles set in the use of social facilities and camps, even the hours, periods of rest, and holidays set by the law, and the pleasure of leaving them at the mercy of individuals? 4) When they are studying, the staff they have earned in their studies has nothing to do with their retirement; they retire as straight officers. In addition, they have no chance to rise to the task, since there is no deployment. It's almost impossible because there's no proper access to another institution. Do you have any work to resolve these problems? 5) How do you feel about the freedom of these officers to organize? Civilian personnel don't want anything to disrupt the internal and discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces. They want freedom to organize to contribute to their professional development and to represent themselves on certain platforms. You know how you used to call it a democracy, you know, a trial hour? Let's see how friendly you are. 6) When will the appointment of civil servants from 2009-2010 as experts be carried out? The answer to these questions is 52,000 civil servants are expected with 250,000 families and we will support the government's proposal for a solution as the National Movement Party, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0007par0059	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Yes, our Secretary of State of Defense... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to make a statement about the non-responsibility. I salute your high council. Mr. Suleyman Nevzat Korkmaz Bey, our Congressman, had a statement about the civil servants. I'll try to answer them as long as we can. First of all, what's their status? Civil servant. He's not a military officer, he's a civil servant. Therefore, there is the condition and status of the civilian officer when he enters. The person enters that institution knowing that status. So, once I'm in, I don't fit this status. It's called sure. That's part of democracy, but there are legal conditions he knows when he goes in. Do you need to make these better? You definitely need to make it better. That's what we're working on. Is it the original element? From the men of our armed forces, from the civil servants to the Chief of Staff, everyone is the main element of our armed forces. We don't refer to anyone as a secondary element. Again, there was no access to another institution. There was an explanation. In previous applications, these were trained, qualified staff, so if we allow them to fail our staff, our services would fail, everyone would be allowed to have alternatives, but in this period, if he, in peace of mind, wants to work at another institution, then we, after that, have a single officer in some places who wants to go, but if he goes, he stays, so we'll also let those who want to leave with an alternative. ▪ There is no freedom of organization. It is called. In the end, we see a service within the armed forces within the family of the armed forces, and they have NGOs, they have associations, they have visits. Whatever legal arrangements or regulations are made regarding them will be better? So we also have a exchange of information, hopefully we'll make that happen. Another residence... that's right. We don't even have enough housing for our staff who've served as soldiers yet. So everyone has a seniority, everyone has a degree. We're trying to allocate a residence to this degree, based on this seniority. Hopefully, Turkey's day will be better than yesterday, and Turkey's tomorrow will be better than today. There's no doubt about it. So, as long as Turkey's resources are good, hopefully, we will provide housing for our civil servants as well as our military personnel. We always say: "We will restore the balance of blessing and riches. " Hopefully, when you look back, look at inflation from 2002 to this time, look at the inflation rate, whatever ratio, including retired officers, including the BUG-KUR officers, all sorts of pensioners, we had a saying to everyone: "We are not going to crush any of our citizens, no public official." So we haven't had inflation crushed so far. From the welfare share, Turkey has improved, so hopefully we will respond to these people. We're saying we're going to improve their current status and their rights. Another member of parliament was saying, "When will the senior officers take the test? When will they be appointed?" In 2012, we will perform all of these appointments. Therefore, there is no loss of a earned right. I can tell you that Turkey's economy is certainly in a much better position than its democratic standards compared to the past. There is no doubt that Turkey's tomorrow will be better than today in both economic and democratic criteria. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0009par0075	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ali Ihsan Kokturk, please take your seat for the anniversary of the Zonguldak Mining March.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0010par0079	Mr. President, I have been promised the 21st anniversary of the Great Zonguldak Mining March. First of all, I salute the High Council. Precious lawmakers, after the coup of September 12th, felt the weight of neoliberal policies throughout our country, as well as in Turkey's Tashkomu Foundation, the most rightful demands of our mine workers had been ignored, the efforts and rhetoric and actions of the political leader of the era, led to the life of a whole town's righteous and difficult resistance to the life of a Zonguldak. This decisive march and the struggle to search for rights, which hundreds of thousands of people headed towards the roads of Ankara, was placed on the exclusive page of the Turkish and world struggle for labour, with the Zonguldkankan's miners, with his tradesman, with his village, with his woman, with his man, with honor. Today, on the 21st anniversary of this glorious march, I honor the great union leader, Shemsi Denizer, with great respect to all of our mining martyrs and all of our surviving mining workers, including the hundreds of metres below the ground in business accidents, lost their lives in the grays. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you, Mr. Kokturk. Mr. Öğüt has entered the system. What was your subject, sir?
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0012par0086	I'd like to talk to you about the closure of the train between Haydarpaşa and Masaki.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0011par0087	All right, let's get you out of your...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0012par0089	Thank you. Mr. President, my lawmakers, the closure of the Haydarpaşa-Basseli railway will cut off the connection between Istanbul and Anatolia. What solution is offered to workers, officers, students who choose the cheap and secure route in this area? What solution is offered to those who have narrow incomes to go to Anatolia? You know, Haydarpaşa is a centre that connects the most remote corner of the entire Anatolian region with train lines. If you want to create a new zoning operation by defunctioning Haydarpaşa, by distracting the public, know that such a purpose will certainly prevent the Istanbulians from allowing it. In that sense, we want the government to find a way to open this road as soon as possible.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0013par0093	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Light, our Kütahya MP, has entered the system, please, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0014par0095	In the Van earthquake, the slightly damaged buildings were given $1,250, while Simav's earthquake was given $750, so I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0013par0096	What's the emergency?
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0014par0097	It's urgent, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0013par0098	We don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0014par0099	Sir, I have a brief statement to make. Simavian earthquake victims have been damaged for 500 lira. It's urgent.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0013par0100	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, and I'm starting it. There are three separate motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having it read to your knowledge: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, substance abuse is increasing in children and young populations. In primary education and secondary school students across the country, especially Van, I would like to ask that Parliamental research be opened under Articles 98 of the Constitution, 104 and 105 of the Institution in order to investigate the use of substance that is addictive to the young population, especially the children. Like all over the world, the age of drug use in our country is getting lower and lower. According to data from the Turkish Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (TUBIM), the age range of most users appears to be between 15 and 24 years old. A 2007 study identified any substance use in the young population across the country as 2.9%. There are many reasons for substance use in children and young people, among the reasons that trigger substance use; curiosity and friend effect take the first two places. In addition, youth's search for role models during puberty is another key factor in substance use. The most important of all of these important factors is, undoubtedly, television. In terms of substance use, the number of school-age children within the risk group has also been estimated to be 70%. In school years, a series of film viewing rates is also much more important in terms of the heroes and the subjects in the series. Another important reason is that teachers are exhausted and can't be a strong model for the student. Today, early in elementary school, a friend replaced the teacher, the most powerful model for the child. In the last 12 months, more than 3 per cent of students have reportedly used cannabis and more than 2 per cent of volatile substances. Among those who use them are cannabis, tranquilizers, or sedatives, and ecstasy. Many institutions, particularly the Ministry of National Education, have very serious tasks in the fight against substance use in young people. However, in most of the programmes conducted by the Ministry of National Education, the primary responsibility is with guidance counselors, and their guidance counselors are outnumbered. Psychological counselling and guidance teachers, who are responsible for social and psychological support programmes in schools, must be helped to increase their staff. In addition, online training programmes for the development of teachers' guidance and psychological counselling capacity must be organised. Talks with families must be made during programmes for children by the Ministry of National Education. However, this communication cannot be dried because of the intensity of the parents' work pace. In this regard, the school family is not enough. Youth and Sports General Directorate allows youth camps, youth clubs, and youth centers to participate in sports activities for the development of young people across the country. According to the target group, however, few young people can benefit from these organisations. Payments to these clubs by the state are extremely limited. The selection of students who will be taken into the camps has been determined to be in line with the theory of rewarding in education, especially with the tendency to use or use drugs, and the success of young people who make up the risk group is very low. In the fight against substance abuse, it falls to the Ministry of Health to relieve young people who are addicted to drugs on another important mission. But in our country, the number of centres necessary to treat substance addicts is very limited. There are a total of 20 treatment centres for substance abuse. The number of beds in the treatment centers is 495. While it should increase the number, İzmir was closed due to the security and cleaning staff crisis of the Egebe University, where children and adolescents under the age of 18 and alcohol-addicted children were treated on foot and on board. In our country, 17 times more deaths stemming from substance abuse from 2002 to 2008 (02:9, 2003:6, 2004:29, 2005:26, 2006:51, 2007:147, 20089, more than 1.766 percent of the number of deaths increased from 2002 to 2008) must be immediately taken into account of the prevalence of cannabis and other substances in young people. In particular, the use of substances in the Van province has dropped to the age of 10 and among the students is cannabis, Bali, thinner and so on. The use of substances has become extremely common. In particular, it is said that security forces and school administrators are insensitive. The drugs are drugs, and if everyone sleeps, the order is clear. It is stated that they are being approached by logic. In fact, authorities, young people, and children are allegedly allowing them to become drug addicts. In Article 58 of the Constitution... The state takes the necessary measures to protect young people from alcohol addiction, drugs, guilt, gambling, and so on. The state's responsibility and homework on this issue is specified by the decree. Based on the above statements, a comprehensive study of substance abuse in the young population and the lack of a common strategy between institutions is of great importance, and a comprehensive study of the use of substance abuse of students and young population throughout the country, especially in primary education and secondary education, including Van. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Zian massacre in Ercish district of Van was investigated in 1930, and the Constitution was the 98th, 104th and 105th, in order to clarify the events of the riot period. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. In 1930, there was a riot called Ağrı Province and around Ağrı Rebellion, and after the rebellion was quelled, many people who had joined the rebellion took refuge in villages in Zilan Deresi, within the district of Erciş, Van Province. In July 1930, an operation was launched by military forces to Zilan Creek, a large portion of the villages were burned down and killed by thousands of civilians, regardless of whether or not they participated in the rebellion. In this operation, Hasanabdal, Aks, Şahbazar, Doğancı, Tendurek, Çakırbey, Snakey, Harhus, Babazeng, Coal, Şor, Shorik, Murshit, Mescitli, Karakilis, Künduk, Zorava, Aryutin, Hallacköy, Koskörü, Kurucem, Land, Yekmal, Church, Gosk, A. Particle, Y. Partaş, Binesi, Bünü, Pelexlu, Kerx, Willow, Müğıre, Kardoğan, Kelkel, Hostekar, Suzvarköy, Redkilise, Visit, Hirashen, Fuçü, Şevilava, Birhan, and Upper Koçköpru were burned to fire. More than 15,000 people were killed who were civilians and unarmed after the operation. The operation of the 13 July 1930 daily of Cumhuriyet has remained as many as 1,500 songs defecting to holes in mountain hills. Our Thais are bombarding the chassis very violently. The Mountain of Pain is constantly moaning in explosions and fires. The Turkish iron eagles clear the rebels' account. The villages that defected to the bandit are completely burned. The number of people destroyed in the operation of Zilan is 15,000. Bellan Creek is full of bodies... This week, Mount Pain will begin the Tenkil operation. Commander Salih Paşa himself will begin scanning operations in Ağrı. There is no way out of this. He reported it in the form of a story. In the 1930 issue of Cumhuriyet daily Zilan Creek, the mass killings were as follows: (Karaköse, 14 (Our Special Reporter) - villages who joined the bandits were burned down, and their people were transferred to Erciş, where they were inhabited. More than 15,000 bandits were destroyed in the operation of Zilan. It's estimated that there were a thousand people who fell and died in front of a platoon. The five who fled to Zilan Creek surrendered. This war here has taken a hell of a turn. Zilan Creek is filled with lebalep corpses. According to the rulings of the period, the verbs committed in the rebel zone were not crimes. The area was the free range. It was confirmed by July 20, 1931 and by the 1850 Law. Article 1: In the riot that took place in Ercish, Zilan, Ağrı mountain airport, the first public inspectorial district, and in the wake of the attack on Erzincan Pülümür accident, 1 law-enforcement and state officials from 20 June 1930 can not be considered to be carried out by the guard, guard, militia, and members of the community, and the actions of those who are involved in this rebellion and in the conduct of the people of Erzincan Pülmümümü. Article 3: The Court and Internal Affairs MPs are officers for the execution of this law. Thousands of people were forced to leave their villages after the massacre. The villages were abandoned until 1980, while Afghans were placed in the villages after this year. Studies on the Zian massacre in 1930 should be carried out as soon as possible and the victims and heirs of the period can be eliminated. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In order to protect our narcissist manufacturers from price fluctuations and assess our country's potential in exporting the narcissist, and to determine the measures that need to be taken, we demand and demand the opening of Parliamentary Research on Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. Turkey is among the top ten countries in the production of around 3.5 million tonnes annually and the production of world citrus. Only a third of the amount of this production can be exported to the domestic market. In order to increase our country's competition with other countries in the export of narcissistics, incentives per ton must be brought to an adequate point for producers. At the same time, it is very important to maintain price stability in the domestic market, to close the gap between the price of the product and the market price, to create promotional groups for citrus products. The number of exported countries is needed to increase and increase the amount of exports made. It is imperative that producers be trained and control mechanisms be operated on the remains of agricultural medicine that lead to negative factors affecting exports. Clearly, an effective and well-functioning marketing organisation is needed to increase exports. To do so, state institutions must take the lead. Especially during the 2010-2011 season, the citrus found a buyer for less than its cost. Despite continuing rising costs of diesel, fertilizer, irrigation and labour, the manufacturer will also have to close this season with damage, as prices for the citrus dropped below the previous years in 2011-2012. There is an inefficiency in terms of the narcissist manufacturer. It will play a big role in lowering entry prices in order for the manufacturer to get the income he deserves. The cost of gardening and maintenance is high in the production of citrus. On the other hand, the product profile can't be changed during the short term, since the newly planted citrus trees have been heavily invested in taking five or six years to bear fruit. Two-thirds of the produced citrus must develop strategies for the domestic market, considering it is consumed in the domestic market. For this reason, the main expectation of manufacturer organisations is that the narcissist be excluded from the Hal Act. In the process from manufacturers to consumers, it is known that the middlemen make high profits. If citrus products are excluded from the Hal Act, it will be possible to lower market price and increase demand. In the narcissistic sector, there is a need to provide support for basic inputs to ensure sustainability in favour of producers. This prevention is parallel to co-operatives and production units that should be supported and encouraged by the government. Publicity and advertising campaigns must be organised to increase domestic demand. The process must be supported by industrial investments. In combating disease and harmfulness, the quarantine practices of the outside markets and the upper remains must be considered. We have reason to believe that the problems of the narcissist manufacturers and the shortcomings of the export policy of these products would be appropriate for the opening of a parliamentary investigation in order to determine the measures to be taken by our Supreme Assembly. [[Adana]] [[Mersin]] [[İzmir]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Yozgat]] [[Erzurum]] 7) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] 9) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 10) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Antalya]] [[Kastamon]] [[Inconceived]] [[Elizipt]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] 19) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Slap]] [[Manisa]] The motions for a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. Now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary delegation of members of the TBM Foreign Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Georgia with the invitation of Georgian Parliament's Foreign Relations Commission President Akaki Minashvili. The parliamentary delegation's visit to Georgia is the 6th Amendment of the 3620th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the Article, it is presented to the approval of the General Assembly. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday (now) 04.01.2012, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Council. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The drafting of the Law Bills and Proposals of the Agenda and Article 112 of Other Affairs from the Commissions to the third place of this section of the law, and the final order of the 15 rows of the law, and the ranking of other tasks according to its order, 10, 17, 24, 31 January 2012 and 07 February 2012 on Tuesday (February 2012) were to discuss verbal questions for an hour, following other audit issues, discussing the agenda's legislation and proposals and other jobs from the commissions, 11, 18, January 25, 2012 to 01, February 8, 2012 to Wednesday's uninterviewed oral questions, On Wednesday, January 4, 2012, until 8 p.m., 10, 17, 24, working from January 31, 2012 to Tuesday, February 7, 2012, between 3:00 and 8:00 p.m. He works from 5 to 11, 12, 19, 25, 26 January 2012 to 01, 02, 08, 09 February 2012 to Wednesday and Thursday between 1 p.m. and 1 p.m. It's recommended. In favour of the proposal, Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0015par0304	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since the Council of Counsellors can't meet today, I have made a pledge in favor of our group proposal according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I salute the General Assembly. Regarding the resolving of Law Proposals and Proposals from the Commissions, the pilot in the Security General Directorate has stated that we are on the side of the group's recommendation, since the compensation rates paid to the flight and task force are being resolved and that we are on the side of the agreement, which has been changed under Article 666 of Law 666 in accordance with Article 666.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0013par0307	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. Against the proposal, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0016par0311	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, here we are today, the first week of the new year, facing a classic of the AKP. Every week he makes a motion, changes the agenda, runs the House as he wishes, acts as if there are no three party groups in this House; instead of discussing the country's true agenda, he puts his agenda, his interests ahead of the country's agenda, in front of the interests of society, in front of the country's interests. Every week since December, meetings of the Assembly are held every day. Here, notice, we have the hours of work and the issues to discuss by the end of January. I'll bet you here by the end of this month, you'll be changing this motion again with at least two or three motions because this House is not working on its own will. The EC PARTY, which constitutes the majority of parliament, sets its own agenda here with the motions of the group's deputy presidents, following instructions from elsewhere from its centre. Now I ask you, what is Turkey's real agenda? Isn't the real agenda of Turkey when 35 of our people were bombed and brutally killed by our fighter planes in Uludere, the crime against humanity, the discovery of the real perpetrators of genocide? What is the purpose of this massacre, without investigating it, without discussing it, without setting up a commission, without opening a general discussion about it, without setting up research commissions about it, without clearing up all the sins of humanity, without clarifying the laws of TOİ, the mindset that burned 35 of our people to pieces? If this Parliament is your farm, if it's not the will of the nation, if it's not the will of the three parties to work and planning, if it's not in advance of the issues to discuss in Congress, if the members of parliament are coming without preparation, without working, and if you attempt to correct the decision in a law that you passed on November 2nd, if you attempt to correct it in a court of law after that, then it is a mockery of the people's will, it is an insult of the nation's will, if you try to mock the nation's will, if you try to make a decision on November 2nd, that is the nation's right to cross the nation's law, the nation's right to pass the law on November 2nd. Guys, this Congress doesn't deserve it, it doesn't deserve it. We can't talk about the problems of the people who are living in poverty, who are miserable with raises every day. We have reports ahead of us. Look, the Human Rights Association, MAZLUMDER, KESK, the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Association of Modern Legalists, Turkey's Human Rights Foundation, Turkey's Peace Assembly, DİSK, the General Business Union, and dozens of trade organisations and civil society organisations are going to Uludere (e.g., "The Union of Human Rights") and are preparing reports of the Roboski massacre. I'm warning this House, look, I'm warning you: if this human shame is not a problem for those who sit in these orange seats, if this House is not going to talk about it, if you're not going to solve it, then we're not going to do politics unless we move it to The Hague Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court, Geneva War Law, the whole world. If we leave this square empty for you... Here, crime against humanity is a crime in our laws, and I want to get your attention. Article 76 of the Turkish Penal Code states that the penalty for the total and partial destruction of a national, ethnic, racial, or group by carrying out a plan for genocide crimes is serious life sentence, and there is no statute of limitations here. See, the 27th article of the Turkish Penal Code, under the title of crime against humanity, considers mass crippling, jenocyts,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, and the article under which there is no statute of limitations. We're not following our own law. We are not following the laws of the United Nations that we are on the side of. We don't consider the United Nations requirement for crimes against humanity. We don't take into account the judgment of war criminals who were tried in the Nürnberg courts after World War II. Let's stop going away and get back to our recent history. In the heart of Europe, we do not learn from the International Court of Human Rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the massacres committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina are on trial. Let him go, the ATOK International Court established in Rwanda, and we don't take into account how the perpetrators of the massacre were tried or tried without a statute of limitations. As long as this shame is not cleared here, those who commit war crimes will pass through all these institutions, and those who do not sign international criminal courts, such as El Bashir, without a side, will be arrested, arrested before international justice, and placed in a situation that cannot be circulated among countries. Now that this is the real agenda of Turkey, it is an outrage to this nation, to keep this country occupied by the laws of TOKI. We don't have to carry the nonsense of this spoiled power, this sassy power, this power that doesn't know what it's doing, this power that doesn't hear what it's saying in this country, it's at the will of the nation, it's in the House. Hüseyin Çelik is having breakfast with newspaper directors today and says: "We didn't give the helicopter to the main opposition leader Kilicdaroglu, and if we did, we'd have to give it to Selahattin Demirtaş, to the State Garden. Is the AKP's tour tourism, is it a company, is it your property, is it your presence? The money doesn't come from the treasure, it doesn't come from the citizen, so the resources of the state, the planes of the state, the state, the corporations, are all your father's property? What's your privilege, what's your specialty? If this country is still unable to talk about this distinction, this persecution, this shame, this humanity crime, to protect those who committed it, to protect it, to look the eyes of the country in the eyes of the world, to make it look like an accident, and to close it with blood money, if the nation's will is still unable to speak in this House, then this human shame, this crime of humanity, this crime of humanity, those who committed it, will answer in front of history without a statute of limitations. Try to cover up this massacre with the media, psychological warfare styles, try to cover it up, and the epic account of the human sin of this era, of this period's irresponsibility, of this period's irresponsibility, of this era, of this period's crime of humanity, of this period, of the crime of humanity, of the crime of this era, of this period. If there are rights, law, justice, equality, citizenship, basic rights and freedoms in this myth, if it has rights to live, this law will be asked in this Parliament. Now you will leave such an agenda, and you will leave such truths, and you will keep this assembly occupied with the TOKI centuries. We're not going to approve of that. We're not going to give your persecution, this majority of your dictatorship, this understanding, this understanding of crime against humanity, your sense of protection, your understanding of protection, we're against it. To be against it is a debt of humanity, a duty of the will of the people, a duty of respect. This Parliament has never used such unsavory, cruel, dictatorial power in a single party period in the history of the republic, even during its single leadership, but we see it being used this period. This Parliament is not the property of anyone, nor will it be at the disposal of the majority of anyone. I salute you all. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] (*) In this chapter, the word was expressed by the Minister in a non-English language.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0017par0325	In favour of the proposal, MP Mehmet Shandır. Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0018par0328	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. As it happens every time, I repeat: the authority to determine the agenda of our parliament belongs to the government because it is the responsibility of political power to rule the country on behalf of the nation. In that case, political power, government and its parliamentary group will prioritize the legal arrangement for the solution to society's problems. The desired thing to do is to cooperate with the opposition parties because this Parliament is working with the program you're doing. The agenda of the Assembly General Assembly should be presented with all the political parties in parliament whose group is in the parliament, since it is of close interest to the working period and the ranking of the issues it will be working on. Many times in this direction, the Joint Council of Counsellors has been able to make decisions, but sometimes, when there is no compromise, offers are brought here by the group's suggestion, which are shaped by the hours and work of our Parliament, offering the information and approval of the General Assembly. That's what we're dealing with today. The AKP Group today, even until 9 February, determines the term of the General Assembly's work and brings to the current agenda rankings this week a new law bill, which has just come out of commission, to be discussed by the Law Order 375, and the Law Proposal on Making Changes in Some Laws. As I've just suggested, it's their own appreciation. We, the National Movement Party Group, have prepared for this offer, and will contribute by expressing our opposition mission, our opposition thinking. Dear friends, of course you have to say that we're building a law here, we're building a solution to society's problems with the law we're building. We're constantly changing the laws we make, allowing ourselves to solve some problems that we've caused. At this point, we have a heavy responsibility because with the law we're building here, part of society is having big problems. These problems, if there's an organizational force, we're announcing and rectifying it here, but if it can't be brought here, the solution to these problems is that the community is struggling with its own problems. In this context, in this sense, for example, this question of checks that has become a social problem of society, the issue of victims of checks, is a two-way street. Both Czech owners and checks are victims, but the solution to the problem is not provided by the middle law today. We have to find a solution to this. It's been heard that the government is preparing for this, but it hasn't been here until now, but the cries of people who have lost their freedom to work because they can't afford the check, the people who are on the run, or imprisoned, reach you every day, all of us. We can't ignore this problem. In every way -- victims of gravity -- the law that constitutes the basis for this victimhood -- must be corrected, and some institutions that need to be responsible for it must be burdened with responsibility, and this problem must be resolved. Another issue: We have proposed a amendment to this Law on Deployment Bankruption. As the National Movement Party Group, in particular, we have proposed a law on the impounding of household goods and impounding of production tools, which is to make changes to the relevant provisions of the Law on Deputation. This waits at the Parliament's relevant commission. The government is also said to have a work in this way, but these should be brought here without delay, such arrangements should be made, and as a result, we should establish law on solving these issues that are very closely concerned with a part of society. Another thing is that a new law must be established so that in order to speed up the trial, to reduce the period of imprisonment, the practices that do not really suit Turkey today, which do not fit to be a legal state, can be eliminated. We would like to request an arrangement in that direction as the National Movement Party. In this regard, especially today, there is still no way to accept that MPs elected by the vote of the nation have continued to be arrested. We also demand that there be an arrangement in this, and we ask the AKP Group to consider these issues as they prioritize the Parliamentary General Assembly in this regard. Dear friends, some of the events we've had in recent days have, unfortunately, stretched Turkey and our Parliament. Dear friends, there are times when it's so hard, when we all stand up and shout at each other from the highest screen of our voices, when we've done injustice to this society, this country. It's no use to hurt the country and the nation by building a political building over this recent incident that we've been investigating and demanding that the facts be revealed and the public be informed. We insist, as the National Movement Party, we invite everyone to be discreet in times of difficulty, in times of difficulty, in a sense of responsibility. Dear friends, as our joint responsibility, the unity of this country, the unity of this nation, the common denominator of all of us, the most important value. No attempt to hurt it, to ruin it, can be justified. It's no one's place to blame the state or the nation, especially for some suffering. Without the government, you can't be here.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0340	What should we do with the bombers? Tell us what to do with the bombers. What should we do with the massacrers? Put your conscience into it!
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0020par0341	Please, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0018par0342	Mr. Hasip Kaplan, whoever sows the wind reaps the storm.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0343	But you blame us. You leave the massacrers, you blame us. Don't!
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0018par0344	He who sows the wind reaps the storm. You don't even know what you're...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0345	But I say a little justice, a little conscience.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0021par0346	Mr. Kaplan, please... they listened to you in silence. Please, Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0018par0347	You're too angry to understand what's said or said, and you don't listen to what's...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0348	No, you don't understand. You've been supporting the government since the beginning of this incident. Don't make such a mistake. I mean, I mean it.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0018par0349	...you're in a building that's hurting Turkey. It is the Armenians, the French, who accuse this nation of genocide.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0351	There you go. You're getting applause. If you defend the massacrers, you'll get them.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0018par0352	But you're accusing this country of genocide from this nation's stand. Who would benefit from such a thing?
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0353	It's a massacre, a mass murder. I repeat, Mr. Kaplan, everyone has to be discreet and act responsibly at these times. Common sense is about taking out the responsible. Don't!
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0022par0356	There is no politics here by expressing that this country is divided. If we're not trying to divide this country, you can't solve any problems by saying it's divided. Dear friends, I repeat, this country is ours. This country wasn't built so easily. The price was paid in blood, and the nation of this country was called the Turkish nation. How is it wise to separate our differences by identifying them? We can only come up with a solution by bringing our common denominators forward and strengthening them, by owning the will to live together, by working together on the wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0358	That's when you bring out the killers.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0022par0359	Now that it's like this, when it's like this, I say it again:
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0019par0360	Killers are found out, that's learned.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0023par0361	Mr. Kaplan, please listen. Please, I'm asking you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0022par0362	If the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is a place to address problems on behalf of the Turkish nation, you can't solve them with this approach, you can't solve them with this anger. Again, everyone has to be discreet and responsible. If we don't act like this, we'll do injustice to this nation and this country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0024par0366	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Against the proposal, Mr. Bulent Tezcan, the MP of Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0025par0370	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I congratulate you all on your new year, celebrating the new year of our nation. I hope the new year doesn't bring pain like it did in the closing year. I wish you a happy, peaceful year. In the meantime, I would like to share my regrets about the incident that has been a subject of controversy, which has been occupying Turkey's agenda since today, which has resulted in the loss of 35 of our citizens in Uludere. I ask God's mercy and patience for those who have died, and I feel that serious steps must be taken as soon as possible to heal these wounds with the responsibility of the state. Dear friends, we're talking about the group proposal brought in by the Justice and Development Party. Here, the ruling party, the ruling party, which holds the majority of parliament, has brought a motion to two fundamental points. The first is required to step up the Law Proposal 112, and the other is a demand for working times, about how to organise their working time in the coming period. Dear MPs, dear friends, look, the bill 112 rows is being brought in to correct the error made in a pre-existing law order. Be careful, this is a proposal made to correct the mistake made by a decree of law, so that we may meet first. Dear friends, we've said so many times on the stand of this House. Legislative authority and its mandate is the primary duty and authority of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Making a decree under the law is an exceptional task and is handed over by the legislature. Look, if you make this particular rule, exceptional practice, you're always ready to do the wrong thing. Dear friends, at the end of the last legislature, 35 separate laws have been passed directly from this Parliament, changing state order, administrative structure, and a state order directly down from the government has been reorganized, as if it had been reorganized. The ministries have been established, the ministries have been corrupted, the branch managers have been appointed, they have been deposed, practices have been made to go behind the judiciary, and the fee arrangements have been made. In accordance with the decree of the law, there have been serious arrangements in 35 separate areas, taken from parliament. Dear friends, if we had discussed them here, perhaps today would not have revealed the need to make this amendment proposal. Now I'm curious about one thing: we're trying to move up Law Proposal 112. So why don't we go directly to the House and argue about the 35 different laws that have changed the structure of the ministries, replaced the staff, removed the staff, shared the powers? Why don't we come to the House? When we see the error of an application in a hurry, are we going to pull them up again with a motion like this? Dear friends, members of lawmakers, members of the ruling majority, members of the Justice and Development Party, do not allow any more practice to violate and eliminate Parliamentary legislature, which is the most important duty of parliament in its work. Dear friends, for this reason, we would like to ask that the House be brought to the agenda immediately, including the provisions of the law, which includes 35 different regulations. Also, from now on, please leave the habit of running this country under the law. Dear friends, here's the second subject: there's an arrangement for working hours. The Article 54 of the Civil Charter (Second Law) states that unless the Axis is agreed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, the Assembly General Assembly is at 15 p.m. He works from 00 to 1900. He says. Dear friends, let us now work here with such suggestions before the end of the process. With such suggestions, the following should be kept in line with this. In contrast to all these proposals you have made in the background, other arrangements have been made to keep the Parliament running until morning -- contrary to previous decisions made by the Council of Counsellors. Dear friends, I ask you this: Tomorrow you will be working until the morning with the Prime Minister's instructions. What will this proposal be, and what will be the work order that you have brought here today as a result of the vote? It seems that whatever you bring here today, you will change the order of the House by the order of the evening or by the order of the morning. Such a nonsensical working order does not suit the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the valued MPs, it does not suit. Dear friends, now that we've heard of it, it's been published in the press, the new Civil Code regulations are being asked to be made. During the new Interior Charter study, the AKP's ruling majority is now trying to limit the motions in such a process as the opposition has already limited its right to opposition according to the existing Interior Charter, in implementation, in a Parliamentary practice where opposition is not implemented enough. You're trying to shorten the talking time with the new Internal Charter study, trying to reduce the number of talks. ▪ How do we reduce the voice of the opposition even in the present form, by not putting up with it, or by not being able to do it? You are in the account of the opposition. Dear friends, of course I understand this: I know how AKP's logic, the mentality works. You look at everything like this: we get 49.9% of the vote, we do whatever we want. In Parliament, the majority of our fingers allow us to do whatever we want. You say that, but you can't, you can't. Because democracy doesn't allow you to do that. Dear friends, the Republican People's Party, not only the 50.01 per cent that didn't vote for you as the main opposition party, but the 49.9 per cent that voted for you, are also equipped with its responsibility to protect you from the evil of power. Our job is to protect the citizen who voted for you from you. (CHP) That is the duty of opposition in democracies. Working with other practices, with new practices, to lower the voice of the opposition is nothing more than a step towards taking away the rights, the law, and the rights of the citizens who voted for you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0026par0385	You protect your own voters.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0025par0386	We'll protect them all. We'll protect them all. The greatest danger is that those who trust in power will suffer the evil of power. The greatest danger in a country begins when power thinks its own power is out of control. Dear friends, look, you've done something else: after seven o'clock, these talks are not broadcast on TV. The citizen doesn't hear what the opposition is saying. The citizen is wondering what's behind the doors and what's hidden behind them. Dear friends, the income of the TRT (TRT) and the income from the taxes paid by the citizen are $551m in 2010, higher than the BBC. Even the world's largest broadcaster, the BBC, does not have such a budget. But the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Assembly of the People, the Turkish Radio Television Foundation, the people's television, the revenues that people have acquired with taxes, and the broadcaster, the world's largest income, doesn't give people the voice of the Assembly. Finally, I say no matter what you do, in Parliament... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if you will not deliver our voice to the citizen, we will go to the citizen's foot and we will speak to the citizen there. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0027par0395	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan. Members of parliament, talks have been completed on the Justice and Development Party Group's proposal according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I will now submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. Among the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan, Professor Ahmet Yesevi, we will resume discussions between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Historical Republic of Turkey on October 22, 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, where we are left to discuss the adoption of the Protocol on the implementation of the Turkish-Kazak University of Turkey. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus between the Government of Northern Cyprus and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 26 rows. We're starting negotiations on the entire bill. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first speaker is Mr. Aytuğ Atcı, Mersin MP. Here you go, Mr. Horseman. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0028par0416	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the Approvement of Intergovernmental Framework Agreement between the Turkish Republic and the Government of Northern Cyprus. I salute you all. Dear friends, first you have reduced the broadcasts of Parliamentary Television to lower the voice of the opposition. We can't help but notice that some of the Speakers are making the ultimate effort to get the remaining limited time to use to the ruling party. We had an example of that yesterday. While Parliamentary TV was on, Mr. Minister's speech was extended, extended, extended, recessed a few minutes after seven o'clock, the opposition's talks were not broadcast from Parliament TV, and our people were deprived of our ideas. No matter what you do, no matter what path you take, no matter what you do, you will never, ever turn down our voice, you will never succeed. Now, I'm going to quote from yesterday's speech, and you're going to have to hear it over and over again because our people need to see, hear, feel, see as the Republican People's Party. Now, as I began speaking yesterday, I first asked God to grant my condolences to our citizens who were killed in Şırnak Uludere. The key point of my speech was that as a government, you can't make this a simple mistake. I said, "It's a simple mistake." I said, of course, it's up to the AKP government to make it look like a simple mistake. As usual, I did the good things. Even if the government took the points the opposition suggested and emptied them, I brought them. When I was in the habit of saying, "I didn't do the bad things, they did it." They. Who's he calling? Everyone but the government. They. Who's he calling? He can be a soldier, he can be a judge, he can be a government. I didn't see him, the government did. This government has gone too far to say. It is possible to extend and extend the list of these others. (x) 26 S. Numbered Bazmak is included in the report. You're evading all values; you're evading the values that we care about, our society, our nation, and you're telling our citizens in fancy words, but now our citizens are awake. Now, when our citizens are listening to what you're saying, not once, not twice, but three times, they're thinking, "If they're talking, there's an anchornoglu under there, let me listen more carefully." Then you'll have to answer for it, and when the time comes, you'll have to answer for it. Though you have tried to justify yourselves, our people will never, ever forget what you did in Uludere. I told you yesterday: just as the government was struck by the wreckage of the earthquake, so were the bombs in Ulidere. There is a small difference: The earthquake was a natural disaster, and you were under it by mistake, but you were the one who bombed Uludere, and you were the one who was under the bombs in Uludere. And don't let anyone forget that. Yesterday, I divided some of my speech into the salvation of Mersin. The salvation of Mersin, like the salvation of other provinces, was very important to us because Mersin had survived the invasion of the enemy, fought a glorious battle and had escaped the enemies 90 years ago. I said, "We have tried to celebrate this event despite all else." I said, "We have worked." I said, "Because there are some executives in Mersin, who think they're smart and take very good instructions from their brothers, who are trying to reduce the enthusiasm in our national days." I also say to those executives from here, "You will never dull our national enthusiasms, not in Mersin, wherever they are in Turkey." Whatever you do, the people of Mersin will celebrate your salvation very well, and Mustafa Kemal Kemal will continue to act in a manner worthy of Ataturk the Great, because Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has a condition for us. I said, "Musafa Kemal Ataturk, take care of Mersin." They said, "My dear Adam, the Mersinites are taking care of Mersin." I said, "I gave my respects and respects to our martyrs who sacrificed their lives in the Battle of Salvation." And I also said that there are new invaders in Mersin, there are new kinds of invaders, these invaders are unemployment. I said, these invaders are economic problems. I said, these invaders cannot give up trying to build a nuclear plant. Don't worry, Mersin will be rid of these new invaders today, just as he escaped the French in the Battle of Salvation. Dear lawmakers, our issue is an agreement on providing drinking and using water for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Of course, providing water from our country to drink, use, and irrigate the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a very human phenomenon. Of course, the Republican People's Party would be against it. It would be an honor for all of us to do such a thing to help our relatives who live there. However, it is not acceptable for our own citizens to be victimized in such a way. So the people who are doing this project shouldn't take their eyes off when they're trying to make eyebrows. We'll never let that happen. The Alaköpru Dam, which began to provide water for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, has a beautiful story. The story briefly states that the Alaköpru Dam will be held in Mersin Province, Turkey. Some of you have probably seen Anamur leaving. Anamur is one of the most beautiful, rare corners of Turkey. With the dam being built, the villages of Akine, Orchard, Yellowwood, and Çiltubü, with historical features, will be flooded. Let's say, okay, you do such an important job, you flood some villages. Come on, that's acceptable. These villages need to be evacuated, and these lands need to be condemned. This is where the story begins, this sad story of the Alaköpru Dam, the sad story of the Anamurites, the Akinine villagers, the forest villagers. What is this sad story? I'm going to tell you this sad story with its problems, but as we always do, I'm not just going to tell you problems, I'm going to bring solutions with me. So you just come in here and talk and walk away like you're making gum in your mouth. Say good things and we'll take advantage of them. Now, as you say, I'll tell you the problems you've created in Mersin, in Anamur, and then I'll tell you the solutions. Let's see how much you take advantage of it, we'll see in time. The first question, valued lawmakers, is, what do you expect of the land that's condemned, what do you want? He expects you to pay him a real price. But you've come here, you've made payments far below the real cost, and you've continued your hypocrisy here. Remember the 2/B forest fields -- remember your selection declarations -- when we tell people about them, we'll give them over the price. No, when you get up, you get up, you start paying Anamur where you want them, or you start paying a lot less than the price. You also punished the villagers who didn't agree on these low-profile terms. You condemned these villagers by court order. You said: "We have made your land official. You want to force the villagers out of their homes, out of their fields." This, in the villagers, began with a sense of help, and it had a huge impact on destruction. The solution is this: Pay the real value of the property. Look, neither the Republican People's Party nor the people of Mersin or the villagers of Anamur are against dams here. There's nothing against sending water to our relatives through the dam here. Just pay properly for the land you've just condemned. This is called eating the right of rights if you don't pay for it. The second problem is that the villages of Akine, Ormansik, Yellowwood, and Çiltubü are forest villages. I've traveled through these villages one by one. Adeta lies in a paradise. If you see the water flowing from there, if you see the greens and the greens and the rich plants, you'll open up there to build a dam, but if you need to do it, you'll do it. All right, let's do it. Well, the people who live here have had forest peasant culture here for years. You still haven't shown our citizens a living space. However, the governor of the period came there when the land was condemned, and he said to the villagers: "Friends, we will show you new habitats. Let us send water to our kinsmen. If so, my governor, if the state says so, then our necks are thin. In fact, at that time, my brother asked questions from the villagers, where do you want to go, where should we put you? In fact, on the map, the villagers showed the forest villages they wanted to go to. But what happened? They still haven't been shown a settlement. Dear friends, you can't squeeze forest villagers into TOKI. WHEN you trap them with TOKI, you sign their death warrant. Wherever the forest peasant wants to live, if he wants to continue his forest culture, you have to give these people credit, just as you've condemned them. What is our solution to this problem? It is this: In order for our citizens to lead a happy, peaceful, productive life, you must make sure that they have an environment similar to their present environment. It's not too hard to do that either. We don't need a new law, we don't need a new arrangement. You just need to run the interim 5th article, which has only been added to Housement Law 5543 and the Application Code. Look, it's all set, it's everything, but you're not doing this app. Dear friends, the third problem is that the people who live here are very hardworking and productive. I would argue that Turkey, even the world's most beautiful strawberry and banana, grows here, grows in Anamur, is world famous. These crops that grow in this region produce hard-working people here. These citizens, with their own resources, without any help from the government, have built a formal irrigation canal, and they've taken natural water, watering these fields for free, and they grow these products. In the new habitats, you did not provide such opportunities in the areas you recommended, and you condemned them to use water with their own money, power money, and water money. Our solution is to immediately give these new settlements free of charge to the irrigation channel that these villagers had previously. There is another important matter, see, this place is very important; it concerns the future of Anamur. You will build a dam for Alaköpru. In the dam which you will build for Alaköpru, the waters will be gathered together, and the waters that you have gathered, and you will send them to Cyprus. Well, everything looks good, but that's not what scientists say. Scientists say that if you take this water from here and send it to Cyprus, then the composition of Anamur's underground waters will change, the composition will increase, the salt rates will increase. We can no longer grow strawberries here or grow bananas. So, what do we do? What is to be done, my friends, is this: this damage must be prevented by feasibility studies that will result in the construction of dams by the Anamurian farmer, who has contributed a great deal to the country's economy by growing under cover bananas, strawberries and vegetables in 55 thousand acres. It's very simple. I don't know much about agriculture, but I do know that if the composition of land, water, changes, so does the life of the plant. Then you need to return some water from this dam to that land, which will not change the composition of Anamur's land, so you need to provide a good composition of the underground waters. Look, when the villagers were working so hard, they built facilities like schools, mosques, village mansions, not just watering canals, but with their own resources, without any state contribution. It's said not to be done in the new settlements. The solution is that, in a way that suits our size as a state, since you, as a government, rule the state, you must keep your commitments to the villagers here in a way that suits you. I mean, look, I'm not saying this out of opposition. You're gone, our governor, our government, has promised the peasant, and now, time has passed, and you're not keeping your promise. For God's sake, would that look good? You run a whole state, you're a whole government, you promised God's poor peasant, and now you don't keep your word. Please do as you please. Now, there's a psychological dimension. Here's the psychological aspect of the case: the old habitats. Everyone think about where they're going to be buried when they're all dead. Wherever in the world, take me to my village, bury me there. How many MPs do you have? That's exactly how the people here buried their ancestors in this land. Now all of this will be underwater. They create significant psychological trauma, social trauma. Society scientists, sociologists say that this matter needs to be dealt with immediately, and you need to provide psychological support for the villagers -- as a solution. It bothers the villagers now that State Waterworks has been building dams for a year, regardless of the right demands of the villagers. They want to keep their promises very clearly. The people who love their state, who care about their state, who care about their relatives, who strive to get water for them, and who say yes to a lot of material-management problems are now against the state, so they have become hot against the government, therefore against the state. You have no right to do this, so you have no right to fire our citizens against the state. You're already going, you're temporary, you're going, and when another government comes to replace you, it's going to be really hard to restore that trust.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0029par0444	Where?
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0028par0445	We all know exactly where you're going. The water sent to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is good. I wish we had plenty of water, but we could send it all over the world. This is a human event. But the people who live here, wherever they've heard about it, however they've evaluated it, are seriously concerned about sending water from the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to Israel. I'm not saying you're gonna do that.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0030par0447	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0028par0448	That's not true, Mr. Secretary. That's not true. You'll get out, you'll say it beautifully, and our people will be convinced. I'm telling you what I heard as a congressman in that area.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0031par0449	Mr. Pitcher, please address the House, General Board.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0032par0450	He's part of the House. The Minister is part of the House.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0028par0451	You're not missing anything, Mr. President!
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0031par0452	I'm not missing it.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0028par0453	It's good, it's good! You get out of here, no, we're just going to give this water to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. You say, "We believe it, we continue to trust our state." And please don't let those trusts go to waste. Keep your promise to the people here, act in a manner that suits you. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0033par0457	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Ankara MP Özcan Yeniçeri. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0034par0461	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of the entire Milletist Movement Party Group on behalf of the State of Turkey and the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On this occasion, on behalf of our group and myself, I salute the High Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we get to the point, I'd like to make a point. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the heart of the nation. This isn't a good place to blow and blow. In a place where everyone can express their every thought freely, tension is an unnecessary commodity. There is a style that the ancients used to call an agreement. That's the way to put it. This bench is not a cheap hero, a challenge, a threat, a blackmail stand, but a platform to solve people's problems. Politics and morality are two separate concepts, but these two concepts are not completely irrelevant. The ideal is to moralize politics. It must not be forgotten that those who cannot moralize politics eventually have to politicalize their morality. The opposition is not to criticize everything, not to accept any criticism of power. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is no place to eat, make promises, or pass words. We're all people with responsibilities to the great Turkish nation. In order to bury poverty, injustice, sickness, unemployment, despair, we need to cooperate, consensus, and strength, which the public faces with power and opposition. It's a necessary result of being the son of a great culture. Applause surprises, praise makes you forget, blessing destroys. You have to avoid all three. It is the unity, the unity, the unity of power, and not the wasteful wasteful. Dear MPs, let's not forget, not only the nation, but history has its eyes on this great assembly. Our responsibility is great and our problems are difficult. On this occasion, there is talk of transgressors such as you, who have despised the Turkish nation from this bench. I would like to take this opportunity to explain to you the Turkish nation and the concept that those who speak these words owe their freedom to say them: Turk, Kutadgubilig of Balasagun, Balbal, Uğ Bey, İstablı, İkmetlı, Meshana, Meşna, Meshana, Meşna, Meşna, Mesevi, Mesevi, and Yasevi, Yasevi, and Yusuf of Baladgubilig of Balasaglu, who crashed on the ground in Altay, Balbal, Uğ Bey. The apocalyptic shirt worn by the Turk, Malazgirt, and the apocalyptic shirt worn by Alparslan, is the song sung by Yunus (Jonah) in Eskişehir, the song played by Kork Ata. Turk is Ulubatlı Hasan's ambition, which is fluctuating in Istanbul's constellations, and Ziya Gökalp is in Diyarbakir. Hulasa Türk, speak in Turkish in Karaman, where Mr. Mehmet Bey has published the decree that he will either take me, or I will take him. Sultan Mehmet's determination that he will take him. More specifically, the Turkish nation is the name of a culture that has been expelled to Anatolia and transformed Anatolia into its mother's womb for people who have been driven and attacked. Don't let anyone see this nation's mercy as weakness, and don't let them think you're a klutz. Dear MPs, Turkey must have a unique, stable, persistent and consistent strategy that sits on its own axis of opportunity, opportunity, threat and risk, such as all countries. Perceptive threats and opportunities of national and interests can only be considered on the axis of national strategies. If you don't know what a national strategy of a country is, you don't know what its national interests are. Cyprus represents a national, political, strategic geography at the altar of Turkey's strategic concept. Cyprus is the most strategic and sensitive aspect of Turkish foreign policy. Cyprus is vital to the preservation of 250,000 Turks living there for Turkey, Turkey not being surrounded from the south, Kazakhstan, Caspian, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Iran, Iraq, for a number of additional reasons, such as the fact that the oils did not threaten to close the Gulf of Alexander and the stopping of Greek Megalo Idea. Cyprus is also the symbolic name of the Turkish nation's opposition to long-term introvertion, spiritual and historical retreat. The agreement between the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Turkey must be discussed and discussed in this context. Cyprus, on the other hand, is a critical geography, not only for Turkey, but also for Israel and other Middle Eastern countries. In this context, it would be helpful to remind you of a historical event that highlights the strategic importance of Cyprus. British Prime Minister Anthony Eden described and explained one of the reasons Britain failed in the 1956 Suez operation as having to provide sea support from Malta, a thousand miles away from Kuwait instead of Cyprus. For global powers, Cyprus is an important centre of activity and influence to the Middle East. The security of the energy pathways is closely related to Cyprus, the regular flow of Middle East oil across the world. Cyprus is more than a security issue for Turkey, but it is also a strategic and geopolitical problem. Speaking of Cyprus, we are also talking about the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, and the relations of Turkey-EU and Greece on the other hand. Cyprus, potentially part of a single geostrategic generation in the Middle East, is a aircraft carrier at the centre of the world as a strategic outpost, right next to the Arab-Muslim region. The force that controls Cyprus means it has the means to control the region from Turkey to Egypt, Syria to Iran. Cyprus is 40 miles [65 km] to Turkey, 267 km to Israel, 965 km to Greece. Greece's interest in an island that is 665km away from it is remarkable in this context. As a result, it is imperative to take a look at Greece's historical destination and orientation. As it is known, Greece used the Crimean War, the Balkan War, the First World War, and the Second World War to carry out Megalo Idea. Today, Greek leaders often make talks and evaluations that describe Cyprus as Greek island (Greek island) and Aegean (Greek lake). From the founding of the Republic of Turkey to 1974, Greece has benefited from any conflict with Turkey. Greece has been judged and rewarded by Westerners to the extent that it has been uncompromising, non-compromising, violent, rebellious and aggressive. For this reason, Turkey's intervention in Cyprus is historic. There's a little bit of that in the depth of disagreements. Dear MPs, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a young state. After the Greek Cypriots did not act in accordance with the agreement of the common state, Cyprus, it was declared a state after Turkey used its right to intervene from international agreements. After the declaration of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the Greek Cypriots adopted themselves as the only legal state in Cyprus, the European Union and the world public. The European Union has taken the Greek Cypriot administration as a full member despite everything and has treated the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus as an illegal entity. For many years, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has been held under an unfair and unfair embargo by Greek and allies, and is still being held, dealing with economic, commercial, political, and social pressure. Turkey is six times larger than Greece and is about 2.5 times greater than Greece as an economic and military force. Greece is geographically disorganized, but Turkey is also geographically tidy. Greece is now in economic crisis and social chaos. Nevertheless, Greek Cypriots collaborated with Greece, taking advantage of Turkey's tension with the region's countries, starting natural gas exploration and extraction activities south of Cyprus. The Turkish Cypriot side also made a similar agreement with Turkey on the basis of reciprocity. The Greek administration has been forced to respond to the steps taken by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus by taking equal steps with Turkey. The seismic research of Piri Reis and some other Turkish ships in the region continues in a symbolic way. Greek unilateral provocations continue in the region as far as possible. Meanwhile, endless talks continue between the President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the Greek Cypriot leader to resolve the Cyprus issue. Dear lawmakers, Cyprus is a concept in Turkish foreign policy that plays the role of Turnusol paper. Once upon a time, the garantor country was Turkey with London and Zurich agreements. According to these agreements, Cyprus could not be a member of an international organisation without Turkey's approval. Today, without the approval of the Greek Cypriot part, Turkey's membership in the European Union is out of the question. Today, the Greeks have vetoed and blocked European Union-Turkey relations. There is no clearer indication of the wrong policy on Cyprus, a national case. It's also a matter of how you get to this stage. As is known, Cyprus itself is a problem among interested parties. Such a problem should not have been the instrument of Turkey's relations with Greece, Turkey-EU relations, customs union agreements, the declaration of Turkey as an EU candidate, or of the Accession Partnership Document, which Turkey signed with the EU. As is known, the agreements in Zurich and London included three garantitarian countries in Cyprus; Turkey, Britain and Greece. In the context of the problem's resolution, the European Union has gradually stepped in to become its fourth garantator country. The Customs Union Agreement, signed between Turkey and the European Union in 1995, is one of those agreements. As a matter of fact, Turkish Foreign Minister Cook accepted the opening of talks with Cyprus in 1995, and the Customs Union was in this context. The document for Participant Partnership between Turkey and the EU in the 2000s and the solution to the Cyprus issue were declared to be the political criteria for Turkey's EU membership in the short term. Greece's Foreign Minister Papandreou has made an unfortunate statement in the form of the European Union of Cyprus and the Turkish-Greek problems with his decisions. The Cyprus issue followed an interesting course with the AKP ruling. Prime Minister Erdogan considers the Cyprus issue to be the problem that hasn't been solved in 40 years. The Cyprus issue has often been claimed by the ruling authorities as a result of Denktas' uncompromising attitude and unresolved solution. The AKP's ruling Cyprus issue has been addressed as "Danktaş." After the resignation of the founding President Denktas, Cypriots was replaced by my mother's Mehmet Ali Talat. At this time, the AKP's Cyprus policy was expressed by four slogans: "No problems with neighbours, no profit-win models, one step ahead of me, mother! At the first stage, under intense pressure from the EU, the Annan Plan has adopted the Turkish Republic of Turkey and Northern Cyprus under the pressure of Turkish Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, with the influence and suggestion of Turkey, and under the fuss of mothers and mothers. In response to Turkish Cypriot acceptance, the Greek Cypriot side rejected this plan. With this attitude, the Greeks have declared to the world that they do not want to live with the Turks. Nevertheless, the European Union has declared it natural and legitimate for the Greek Cypriot administration to represent all Cyprus. As it is not enough that the European Union single-handedly recruits the Greek Cypriot Administration with a status that will represent all Cyprus, this time it has opened its ports to a member of the EU. In spite of all this, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, under the rule of Mehmet Ali Talat, has been making gestures and opening doors to the Greeks, and has been stubbornly negotiating in the image of a permanent peace seeker, and at the point where today comes, it stands in the middle, just standing. The intellectuals are influenced by idealism, morality, or philosophy, but diplomats consider facts, sustainable facts, and what is possible as a controversial subject. The diplomats sitting at the table are more interested in the shadow of power or forces that fall to the table than in the sumptuous sentences. It is either Cyprus or Cyprus, the customs union or Cyprus, who set up the equations of compromise or embargo, were not involved in an approach based on Turkey's interest. Dear lawmakers, you know, there are cases that give consciousness, spirit and meaning to generations. These cases make the people a nation, keep them together, make them ideal, and make them make sense, and lead generations to souls and citizens. Cyprus is such a case; Cyprus is also a national, religious, human and moral case for Turkey; Cyprus is too large to calculate the cost. No cost-benefit analysis means anything to Cyprus. Cyprus is a historically mandatory, geopolitically essential, politically undisputed geography. Dear lawmakers, the way to strategically strengthen the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is by strengthening northern Cyprus in strategic terms. There are two strategic elements for Cyprus: one is energy and the other is water. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has a semi-dry climate. Water is vital to the KKTC. All drinking and using water in the KKTC is provided from underground water sources. The underground waters are also rapidly salted. Therefore, the water problem of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus has become more important than anything else. A while ago, the explosion at the Greek Evangelos Florakis naval base knocked out Vasiliko power plant, which provided an important part of the need for electricity for Southern Cyprus. Due to a power outage across the south, the Greek administration has been forced by the Turkish to cover part of the power shortage. This has given the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus a serious prestige in every sense. The Cypriot Peace Water Project was even stronger in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus's hand when the button was pressed and the agreement was reached for the implementation of the peacewater Project. Because of its semi-dry climate, the island, which does not have natural water resources such as river and stream, cares as much for water to be carried by pipelines and as much as life water to be needed. The international public will be able to create a different image of Northern Cyprus as the Turkish Cypriot takes steps in the economic field. The dissolution of asymmetry in the island, in favour of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, is also essential for a permanent solution within the basic parameters of the United Nations. With this agreement, the construction of the sea crossing by both the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus will be carried out by Turkey through land structures and pipelines. The ownership of land structures and sea-passing pipelines and all facilities built under the project will be owned by the Republic of Turkey from the beginning of the construction. It's a useful and strategic agreement in every sense. I wish good luck to both countries, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0035par0485	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. Here you are, Mr. Commander. Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0036par0489	Mr. President, the valued members were on their way, and it started raining half the way, and someone who was cautious turned his head on to the other. The man survived this journey, the rain, before it got wet. And when the rain had stopped, he began to murmur, saying, "It is a good thing that I had this lamp with me, or else you would be soaking wet." The other said, "God bless you, brother." Think about what you'd be like if I didn't give you this. One, three, five, last, the other one, when he came to the edge of a stream, he lifted himself up and threw himself down the creek, and he said, "La, something, I wouldn't get wet any more!" As in this parable, our relationship with Cyprus. We have a relationship yesterday that's not bound by universal human rights, which is, like, fluctuating according to the conjunctive, but basically, the lack of manners to get up on their heads is a thirty-odd-something-year chance of this island. You have to look at it from history, how it happened, how it got here, why it can't be solved? Turkey is a strange country about this. When this Cypriot operation was done, there was only one country in the world that stood for it, and its leader was used as a base to tear it apart. Other than the late Gaddafi, the Libyan leader, there were no seats available. Our country did what it needed to do to tear him apart. Now, about twenty-nine, thirty years ago, the intervention to prevent that fascist coup went on, and it turned out to be a policy for us to take root there, to sit there. It is the Kenan universe that has troubled us for the second time. Tuttu declared the state of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus today. He should be charged with a felony as severe as the September 12th indictment. Now, from time to time, the lawmakers are coming out here, a common use, every phrase outside of this country's official policy, the so-called Kurdish state, the so-called Armenian state, so-called this is what they say. The only place that really fits that description is the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, because there's not a single person in the international community who calls it the government, including the friendly enemy. We've been lying to these people for over thirty years about this being a state. In the history of the recent republic, there is no such thing as so much Veballi and so often told. It's not the government. Why are you lying to the public? You steal it and play it yourself. You're trying to run an eighty-second province in this country, but there's a place that's out of your depth and out of bounds. It's true that there's water to be brought here because you've made this country's colonic. You'll have to take a lot of water to clean out this thick bowel. Look, the contgerilla organization in this country, the governments established by the United States, their husbands, their relatives, their predecessors, the ministers of the government, all of whom have become sects in Cyprus -- either a bank, or a firm, or a government. Now, you've been lying to the people of the island and the people of Turkey for years that Cyprus is a state because you're going to clean up all the bile of this country there. Any assessment that doesn't look at the matter from here is incomplete, does not serve the outcome, does not persist in saying too much of a lie. Now that we're looking at it, we have a very incoherent approach in this country that you've connected yourself to the Annan Plan. No matter how the other side behaves at this point, the opposite -- they called it throwing the rods, it was the way of the future land-building -- and by watching from the plane, it's nice here, too. You say, let's not give it here. It's the government's general recklessness that's been through the roof, and it's Cyprus. First, we need to remember the role of this colonization -- it's a colonized country -- in the population growth of this place. The island population is one fifth of the population, you will import five times as many as the local population, you will import five times as many people, you will import five times as the local population, and all the arrangements you have made after that are directed to ensure the care of the population you import there; you sent it there, you colonized it, you will feed it, you will feed it. Then you'll get up and say, "Don't feed. And then we got up and we did all sorts of human, universal, and legal demands, like I told you in the first joke -- like this, like this, we did things like this. So for the rest of your life, you're going to do what we tell you to do, and you're going to say, "You're going to keep cleaning up all our messes here." There's no moral norm for something like that. The same vulgarity is also associated with another country. So this has become a fundamental reflex in the government. The children of this country were sent to Korea in a hurry, so that they could take us to NATO, without making a decision from Parliament. It's so unfortunate that it started such an unfortunate process that the Korean Intervention, the Kenan Universe, became Chief of Staff because of Korean seniority -- take the other one and shoot the other one, it would have been Nurettin Ersin if it wasn't for him, but it does have something like this. Today it is said that all people referred to as "Topal" in Anatolia were shot in the heel in Korea. The Minister of Industry stood up, and said to the Koreans who wanted a restitution, that's how many martyrs we gave you there. I mean, in the name of God... This whole martyr thing keeps coming back to me. You will stand next to one Korean and send the sons of this country down there without deciding to fight the other for his brother, for American interests, and then when he looks at his trade, which is one of the things that cannot be done without this government... the same, Minister Çağlaşen said that when the Armenian bill in France came to an end, the biggest French firm here is the Turk son of Turkey. They see such a Turkish dissolution license as it is, giving them a Turkish title. I mean, let me translate: he's got a sense of what they want to bring in money and what they want. This Minister had done the same vulgarity to the Koreans, he said: "We have given so many martyrs to you." So? Then we have every right to come here commercially and play all kinds of tricks. I'm the one who said the word "magicism," not the minister's. Now, that understanding also manifests in Cyprus. No one stood up and said, "My brother, there were real owners of this island. What do they think?" For some reason, the nationalists, the trustees, who say, ignore this fact: we know history as well as you do, and we know its history as well as you do, and it's not a conquered island of noble and righteous deeds. They say Sultan Selim has conquered this place because it's very good wine, so it's not much of a Turkish club. But they don't talk about what they're saying by looking at that history, about what kind of prostitution, what kind of casino, what kind of Mafia paradise this island is today, surrounded by all kinds of troubles in this country. All the nationalist rhetoric on this island, that's what it's all about, is funding the sectors that I'm counting. Who's saying these things -- I don't mean the people in Cyprus -- who's flagging this, you see, behind it you're looking at a logic that sells human flesh, casino tourism, you're looking at envainity. And by large intestines, we have no intention of charging anyone. When you took these, you made life in this country stand still. That's what the neo liberal system is like. First he builds his own market like this, and then there's a lot of dumb-ass mentality to defend it, and now when they try to do something else, you don't have to do anything, they'll stand up enough for you. Remember, when the Greeks started searching for natural gas, we considered it a cause of war. There are certain measurements that separate the mouth from the other organ. Running a country means weighing your words in forty cantars. It was a cause of war, you sent one ship, the ship barely put its life back on Turkey's soil. There are natural gas sources there today, where a Russian company produces oil in the name of the Greeks. What do you do in return? You go and deal with Shell, and she'll look for oil. The Noble firm and Shell have a very bad record on the human conscience. You go to a company that finances the fascist government in Nigeria and turns the country into a pool of blood, where all its subterranean resources are being looted, and you hand over your future in that country. The most effective scarf on all of this is nationalist rhetoric, not nationalism itself, but nationalist rhetoric. You come in here and you say, "Well, you say, "Well, we're the apple of the eye." You say, "If it upsets you too much, you say, "We'll feed you." You say, "You'll act crueler, more recklessly than the Agha does to the torment." That's what's going on. What happened to counting your reasons for war? Finally, our equipment came into play, and he came to his senses. He wrote, "Now I'm going to say something, let me control myself" there were deceivers in this country. What happened? No follow-up on the idea at all? Don't you have any dignity in your opinion? What's going on? You're coding this country's young values, and if we're going to be able to solve it, because you oxidize them, their minds, their hatred, the people across the street, they're insulting them, they're rejecting them, they're injecting them with a phrase that allows them to be used in front of all kinds of insults, they're going to be sorely unresolved. Now they're changing the name of this country. If we told them yesterday, they'd have had a blast. Yesterday you built 50,000 ideologies on the sanctity of this name, the sanctity of this flag, changing its name. What the hell is going on in Turkey, not in Cyprus, not Eroglu, not Mr. Erdogan, and why is there even talk of a constitutional amendment? There is not a single sentence about this that the people of Cyprus, the people of Turkey, know. If so, we'd be happy to have the ministers here to say something about it. Why are you changing his name? What's going on in there? What are you after? Now, when that happens, you will see what you consider to be a blessing, the debt of your own neck, the cleansing of what you have created. But when we turn around, it's for this nation to destroy a place while you're on the edge, and that's what you've done. (*) A non-Turkish word was expressed in this chapter by the Minister. You return, for the dam at Anamur, to the peasant there, without asking the local people, to destroy the region, which is almost an agricultural paradise. Water is a human right. Today you bottle and sell, wars are fought for, but there is a truth you forget: it is a human right, just like the air, and it is the common possession of all the creatures on earth. For him, the fact that you're trying to make it into a meta, that you're trying to make it into a commodity, that you're buying an object, that you're buying, that you're buying, that you're making a war, that you're making a kneel, that you're making a threat, that you're using it as a blackmail tool, that you're using it as a neo liberal system. Its largest representative, its most insufferable advocate, is the current government. Mr. Furkcü, our congressman Mr. Furkcü said that Cypriots is occupied. When he said that, you set off the apocalypse. Cyprus is under occupation. And the occupying mentality is this neo liberal, which is the mentality that tries to run it with prostitution, gambling, and all sorts of mob shit. It doesn't matter which country you carry the flag of. Capitalism, money, has no religion, no faith, no nation, no belonging. And finally, while you're binding my words, I'd like you to think a little bit about what the real people of this island, the real owners, the people who weren't taken there by transport, the people who weren't imported, what they were thinking about, a little bit about that. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0037par0513	Thank you, Mr. Commander. Now on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır. Here you go, Mr. Bozır. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0038par0518	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on behalf of the Intergovernmental Framework Agreement for the Water Need of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, signed with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and to pay my respects to the Supreme Assembly. Turkish Cypriots have taken over from our mujahideen and have been honored on the stage of the world, rising above human rights, the rule of law, and such universal values, by expressing their determination to live free. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is a source of pride for us, with its savings and equipment, which can exceed the distance it has traveled in political and economic areas so far. To strengthen the relationship between Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, to act together, and to think of the population of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus as people who have been taken from Turkey, instead of being offended by the point of which the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus has arrived, and to use statements that would disturb the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and Turkey, to make Turkey an invader in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and to think of its population as people who have been taken away from Turkey in the form of Turkey, I don't think it should be indiscriminate and irrational, and it shouldn't be in the same way of all the years. The Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots are making efforts to reach a permanent and comprehensive solution to the island through talks around the United Nations. The goal is to reach a comprehensive solution in the second half of 2012. We, as Turkey, are using all the opportunities we can to achieve this goal, and we think that we've come a really significant distance to achieve it by taking advantage of the power we have on the economicly international platform. Although the solution to the northern Cyprus problem and the solution to the Cyprus problem will also contribute to trust, stability and co-operation in the eastern Mediterranean and Middle East, Cyprus alone is not a problem that Turkey or the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus can solve. Thus, it is necessary by the Greek side to reveal the necessary political will and determination and to make good use of the last opportunity. The Greek side is really a community that has only a few left in the world and is acting in the role of spoiled children. The time has come for this pampered Greek Cypriot community and its state to be truly guided and pressured by countries with influence in the region, with the interest of the international community and the region in the world. Although he firmly demonstrated the Turkish Cypriot entity's will for a solution, it is clear that the inhuman restrictions he was exposed to have no reasonable explanation. However, as in 2004, if the current process is in vain, it should also be known that the price cannot be carried out by the Turkish Cypriot side, and that it cannot be carried out by the Turkish Cypriot people. The restrictions imposed on Turkish Cypriots must now be lifted. It pains all of us to see that a wall exists in Northern Cyprus while all the walls in the world have fallen, but it is time and time for the whole world to make an effort to solve this problem. Turkish Cypriots have the quality of life and skill that they deserve. Turkey will be with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in the future, as always. The Turkish government also considers the greater implementation of Turkish Cypriot entrepreneurial and desire to succeed in economic development and is working with the government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. While we strive for a compromise that will soon be reached, we continue to strengthen ties between Turkey and the KKTC, implement bilateral co-operation mechanisms in all areas, making initiatives in this direction. We think it will contribute to our efforts to resolve it. Turkish Cypriots' well-being and the economic success of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus are our primary goal, for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to stand on its own feet safely, for development and development. By acting together, we believe that we can quickly build the KKTC (KKTC) into a much more economical, prosperous, and competitive structure. Recently, a persistent and decisive policy has been implemented and significant developments have been made. We are pleased to observe that the work is bearing fruit, that the economy is getting stronger and that prosperity is increasing. Northern Cyprus will surely benefit from Turkey's success in many EU countries and in a period of economic difficulties worldwide. In this framework, grants, incentives and loans to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are increasing, and our support for this country is approaching $1 billion Turkish lira as of 2011. Dear lawmakers, under our policy to support the Turkish Cypriot Republic in all areas, the foundations of a major project to strengthen the unshakable unity and solidarity between the motherland and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which will provide life water from Turkey to the fertile lands of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. This framework envisions the completion of the submarine pipeline project in three years and costing $440 million. The water transport project has four main elements: The first is the Alaköpru Dam, which was founded in March 2011 and was built. The tender for the construction of the Alaköpurü Dam on Dragon Tea was concluded by the General Directorate for State Water Affairs, and on March 7, 2011, the ceremony of laying the foundation of the dam was carried out with the participation of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Turkish Cypriot President Mr Dervis Eroglu and Turkish Cypriot Prime Minister Mr İrsen Küçük. Second, it is a pipeline that will come out of Anamur, which will come out of the Mediterranean, and go under the water, and reach the Entrance. The construction of the pipeline, the second part of the project, is expected to be completed within two years. Third: This water reaching Cyprus is an effort to increase the current dam for its capacity to reach 25 million cubic metres [1 million cubic m] of the Gateköy Dam, where it will be stored and distributed. The fourth is the construction of the pipeline from the dam to all related areas of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, where water is stored in the Gateköy Dam. A total of 500km [500 km] long pipeline is planned to reach the entire KKTC. The completion of the project on 7 March 2014 was announced several times by our Prime Minister. Honourable lawmakers may also be able to sell the water directly to the Greek side under the mentioned project. It is clear that this will also lead to an increase in land value. It is clear that within the framework of a possible comprehensive solution, the property issue will help the Turkish side to be resolved with more favourable conditions and to keep a possible land transfer to a minimum. The possibility that the Turkish side can be transformed into an element that can strengthen its hand in negotiations is possible with this project. Whether the Cyprus issue reaches a solution or not, with its health, sustainability and productivity, an ever-existing economic structure would be the most important guarantee for the future of the Turkish Cypriot people. Turkish Cypriots have proven repeatedly that they have the power to show the dynamic of change in the economy as well. We are fully supportive of the bold steps the Turkish Cypriot government has taken towards this purpose. Since we will overcome all obstacles together, let no one doubt that we will win together a happier prosperous future than we will make the Turkish Cypriots stronger. Turkey is by the side of the Turkish Cypriot, who will always be there for you, the garanteur and the motherland will continue to fulfill its responsibilities, and will not compromise it in any way, and in our national cause, it is clear that we can only achieve the right result by maintaining our unity with precision, while I strongly condemn the explanations from this platform that would undermine the real link between Turkey and the KKTC. Our unity and unity, which is the primary source of our power, are more important than anything else today, and at this point, where it should be stronger than ever, there's no point in making it weak with such words. We are truly satisfied that the Turkish Cypriot people have come to this point despite all obstacles and restrictions. The Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus will be the most solid basis for the Turkish Cypriot people to build both the guarantee of today and the future. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0039par0534	Thank you, Mr. Bozır. Now, according to Article 81, the question-answer will be carried out. Mr. Alim Ik, MP of the National Movement Party, Kütahya. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0040par0538	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, as it is known, the Greek and Israeli partnership platform was established in the Eastern Mediterranean region, where Cyprus was recently included, and then Turkey sent a ship called "Piri Reis. " What's going on in this area? Has oil been found on this platform? If so, what will be the right of Cyprus and Turkey? Where are our Piri Reis ships and other studies? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0041par0541	Thank you, Mr. Light. We don't have any other friends who hacked into the system. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0042par0544	Yes, thank you. I, if you'll excuse me, especially under the Alaköpru Dam, the four villages in the lake area, the MPs asked some questions while they were speaking, and I'll answer them. Once, sir, the Alaköpru Dam is not only giving Cyprus 75 million cubic metres of water per year, but also a very purposeful dam that will water the Muslim lands in Anamur. So it's not just to give water to Cyprus. It was a need there anyway. It will water about 3,300 hectares of land, and it will also supply hydroelectric energy and electricity in the region. I offer this to your attention once and for all. In addition, there was a law against the rights of these four villages, especially the four villages there, as you know, last semester, with a bill of law. The Council of Ministers has also made a decision on this matter. In fact, so far, there has been a publicisation payment of 25 million 556,370 TL. In addition, 30 homes in the village of Ormancik are being immediately moved to a new area. The tender also took place on 27/10/2011. I mean, it's never about victimizing the citizens here. I want to stress it specifically. Other than that, of course, in the eastern Mediterranean, the Greek side began to search for natural gas and oil. Of course, Turkey, as you know, is currently in the area of its sovereignty by immediately making a deal with the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. And as the Republic of Turkey, we have declared that when the Russian side brings out oil and natural gas, it will not be able to use it for its own benefit, unilaterally. They have already declared it themselves. It was also declared that it would be used for the interests of all Cyprus. Right now, our government is very carefully following the issue. For your information, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0043par0549	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0044par0550	You didn't mention Israel.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0045par0551	We have time for that, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0043par0552	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0045par0553	Sir, thank you. Really, Anamur is watching the villagers. Knowing that we're being watched, I'd like to ask you to speak a little wider in order to give us some information. Here, you know, the entire village of Akine will be evacuated. They have 5,000 acres, they're underwater, and 2,000 acres of land they use under 2/B, which is underwater. Where will this village be moved? When's he moving in? You paid 25 million publicization costs, but because you didn't give them their homes and their fields, these villagers migrated to the city. Instead, these villagers must farm, produce, and give them enough land. I'll be speaking in a moment, but since you have time, our villagers, our chiefs, are listening to you, and if you give us any information, when will it be done? You can't move them into their TOKI homes; they need to be built into a village home where they can find life again, where they can farm, where they can feed their animals. I'd appreciate it if you could explain to the villagers what the government is doing about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0046par0558	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0047par0560	Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, especially to state that, of course, there is a village of Ormancik in the area where the dam flow is being built. Since this place is so urgent, we've decided to make 30 houses fast -- there were 30 households -- for them. Other areas will already take time to be in the dam lake area, because there is still construction of the dam, and there is also dehydration. And we planned to complete the dam at 1300 hours on March 7, 2014, so we already have until then. Citizens are already using it. What we're solving right now is solving the problem of the forestry village in the area where the dam was built, the current, the body was built. As for others, our Forestry General Directorate is now both the DSI General Directorate of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, and our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is meeting with the citizens there -- and we've put justice into action -- and we're finding solutions in the most appropriate way, without sacrificing citizens, or even providing new possibilities for them. In fact, I've instructed that in order for the citizens there not to be victims, the corrupt forest areas should be given to them in a way that brings in revenue. So, they'll never be victims of this, let me point out, but the work is going on right now because there's a certain amount of time for publicization of a certain lake area. Besides, we never victimize them in paying publicization costs. I'd like to stress that in particular. Another question was, will Israel be given water from 75 million cubic metres of water here? Let me put it this way: the water here will be delivered entirely to the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. There's watering, drinking, using, supplying industrial water. Otherwise, there's no way that water can be delivered or sold to any other country from there. We don't have that kind of plan. And by the way, I'd like to bring this to your attention, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0048par0568	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kusoglu who hacked into the system...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0049par0570	Thank you, Mr. President. My question isn't directly related to Mr. Secretary, but with the Foreign Affairs Commission and Foreign Affairs bureaucrats here, I'd like to ask you if you'll excuse me for a recent issue in the press. There were reports on Hatay that Israeli drones had been in the area for a long time and that our fighter planes had gone to the area to assess the situation, that there was no conflict, and that at times it could have been about Cyprus. I'd like to ask you how accurate these are, what their purpose is, how they came to be clear. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0050par0574	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher, Mersin MP.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0051par0576	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm surprised you'd be able to avoid such an important matter in two minutes, Mr. Secretary. People are crying blood over there. He's really winning rights. Tell me this: Will you go to the villagers there and keep your promises, or not? Because the whole Anamur is watching you right now. Go out and say, "Whatever we promise, we will keep." I don't want anything else.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0050par0578	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. Mr. Dibek...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0052par0580	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Minister, I have a problem with the centipede, not with that. We have Kofçaz district at the border, Kofçaz district of Kırklareli, on the border with Bulgaria. The cadastro work in this district has been completed, but the work on this 2/B is not done in the villages of this Kofçaz district. Now, our citizens there have been in those areas for 40 years, especially these animal shelters of our small-sized livestock. There's some sort of sealing going on. They're applying to the D.A.'s office, the D.A.'s giving instructions to the forest business, and they're sealed. Citizens can't find a place to put these animals. And I asked the company about why they don't do work 2/B. We have a very small town, 4,000 people living with their villages. I think he's being neglected. So I'm guessing if the work 2/B is over there, the cadastro work is done right now... these places are all out of the woods under 2/B, but now the sealed and the citizens can't look at these animals in winter conditions, unfortunately, right now.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0050par0582	Thank you, Mr. Dibek. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0053par0584	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, in particular, of course, regarding drones, our State Department will respond in writing because this is a delicate issue. If you'll excuse him, we'll answer in writing. I'm telling you one thing about Mr. Horseman: I've explained enough, but let me say that whatever we've promised so far as the government -- I myself, as Minister of Environment and Forestry and now Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs -- we are absolutely behind our promise, so don't worry about it. I mean, I've explained enough. In fact, I'd like to tell them that we're also doing some income-producing work for the citizens there, and we're not going to victimize them. I don't know what else to say. In addition, our Congressman is concerned with areas 2/B... of course, first of all, we chose areas 2/B, especially areas where settlements will bring revenue, and problems are indistinguishable. There are some missing places, whether it's in the Inner Anatolia, in Thrace, but we're going to complete them. I took notes. Hopefully, we'll get that done soon. We're going to solve this problem.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0054par0587	This is all we have left, Minister, Kofçaz.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0053par0588	Okay. I'll take the position from you, Congressman, and I'll follow him myself. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0055par0590	Thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, I'm going to read the first article of the bill: North KIBRIS TURK REPUBLIC WITH TURKEY COMMUNITY ACTIVITY ACTIVITY OF North KIBRIS TURK REPUBLIC ACTIVITY TO CONTINUE PROGRESSING TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE AUDIENCE The government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which was signed in Nicosia on July 19, 2010, was eligible for the approval of the Intergovernmental Framework Agreement for the Meeting of the Water Need of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On the first article, İlhan Demiröz is a member of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Irony, here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0056par0603	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you and our fellow citizens who are watching us on television with respect and love. I wish 2012 to bring peace, love, happiness, health. To the 35 people who lost their lives in Şırnak Uludere, I wish God's mercy and his family's condolences. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Northern Cyprus that it is appropriate to ratify the Intergovernmental Framework Agreement on the Meeting of the Water Need of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is about a third of a square mile [9.251 km] of the island of Cyprus. 1,870 square kilometers of this area are about 57 percent of agricultural land, but the waterable land is very low and is around 87 square miles [87 km]. Dear MPs, I know that the presence of water and drinking water for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is of great importance to the Turkish Cypriot Republic because it is part of the half-dry climate belt and has limited natural resources. In this regard, I would also like to state that the bill is important and appropriate. Dear lawmakers receive AKP officials when they are briefed on the work done before 2002. They even say they did everything in their time, but I want to tell you what was done about Cyprus and what was done before 2002. By means of TOPRAKSU and Village Services directors, which were closed at that time, the General Directorate of Village Services, beginning in 1989, was built into a watering pond in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Dear friends, from Turkey in 1998 10,000 cubic metres and 40,000 cubic metres of water were transported in total 4.1 million tonnes of water in five years with bags pulled from the sea. Again, it has reached 2,000 cubic metres/day capacity today as part of efforts to obtain drinking water from the sea water during the 2000s. Again, wastewaters in Nicosia (4 million cubic metres/years) are being refined and used to water the mera fields during the time before your power. So I've told you, and I've expressed this: yes, this project, this watering and drinking water project is very important, but it's about to highlight how important water is in this regard, and I've said it in terms of the work that has been done before. And I want to end another issue here: I want to say that we have complete faith that the water that comes to a single point will be distributed in a 3,300 square kilometers [3,300 km] area, and that our fellow engineers in the Union of Turkish Architect Engineers Chambers will do it in the most economic and best possible way. After we talk about these issues, I'd like to talk about the very short land in our country and the watering land. Our country's land is 78 million hectares. In the sense that we don't drown in numbers, we have a watered-down land presence of 25.8 million hectares and an economic waterable land of 8.5 million hectares. Dear friends, the land that leads to watering is 4.9 million hectares. This is part DSI, TOPRAKSU, Village Services, citizen's cooperation. I'll return to this position, but I'd also like to offer you very brief information about water in the world. The amount of water in the world is 1.4 billion cubic kilometers. 97.5% of this is salty, 2.5 percent sweet. We provide three hundred and five percent of this sweet water with lakes, streams, dams, and ponds. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share with you the following information about water. At present, 1.4 billion people in our world do not have enough drinking water, 2.3 billion people yearn for healthy water, 7 million people die every day of water-related disease, average water consumption per person is 800 cubic meters per person. In our country, we have a reserve, 110 billion cubic metres of water. In order for us to become water-rich, we need to be above 10,000 cubic metres, which means that we are neither water-rich nor water-poor in our country. Dear lawmakers, I have stated that 8.5 million hectares of economic waterable land in Turkey have been opened to water 4.9 million hectares, and I said I would return to that subject. For this: I would like to express that the watering of irrigable farmland would take years at this rate or with today's budget, and we wouldn't be able to finish it even in a 50-year period. Why? Currently, valuable lawmakers, there is no institution, no institution, no watering duty. If you call the State Water Affairs General Manager, if there's any funds left over from the dams, it can be done. However, all projects, irrigation services, inland services, drainage, construction of land were done by this institution until the Village Services were shut down, while the other parts were co-organised by State Water Affairs. Who's gonna do it now? State's private administration? Does the county's private administration have enough resources for that? Do they have enough techs on the irrigation, the drainage, the land support, the collection? No. I know it's not, but there's a norm staff in the county's private administration. The men who married his child, completed his profession here, retired, who gave their years to this agency were sent to construction sites, and they were prevented from staying at construction sites. Why? So they could retire and retire. So, did the state's private administration put the norm staff in place after these retirement procedures? No. What's been done? The contracting staff has begun. Earlier, the seasonal labor problems had been resolved before your power, and they had been recruited, but come to see that the seasonal workers are being recruited again today on the subject of this so troubling issue, the actions of uncle, uncle, nephew, and nephew continue. For this reason, we all agree that it's a dream to make the watering of agricultural areas that can be watered with the budgets of the state's private administrations. Is it possible that imitations of the city's private administrations are being weakened and the activities of the city's general parliaments are being eliminated? In other cities, such as Istanbul and Schepeli, is the province's general parliament wanted to be eliminated with the status of a major city? For two years, I served as vice president of the county council group. This parliament is a local parliament. Our friends are self-absorbed. It's a factor in planning, they make important decisions about their localities, but they're not even in the protocol, as they're not taking any steps towards social rights. Then I'd like to say that I think, in turn, is it time for the general councils of the province, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0057par0620	Thank you, Mr. Irony. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Yusuf Halaçoğlu is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0058par0625	Mr. President, it is considered to be our most important task to meet the need for water for the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. On that basis, I would like to inform the Grand Assembly of the Cypriot Foundations, which will affect the Cyprus issue in Cyprus in the first degree politically, such as the Arestis and Loizidu cases. I think this will be a particularly good information for both the ruling and opposition parties. Dear MPs, the foundations laid down on the island with the conquest of Cyprus in 1571 are the oldest, historical and old foundations of Turkish Cypriots. Since the conquest, more than 700 foundations have been established in Cyprus since 1571. Most important of these foundations are Abdullah Pasha, Lala Mustafa Pasha, Jafer Pasha, Ferruzade al-Haj İsmail Agha bin al-Haj Ramazan Agha, Dervis Efendi Mustafa Nazif and Customsman Osman Foundations. The Abdullah Pasha Foundation was founded in 1761 by Abdullah Pasha, who died while he was a gentleman of Aleppo. Abdullah Pasha dedicated 60,000 acres of land in the area of Magosa, where he owned the Maraş Pasha Foundation of Abdullah. The foundation of the foundation was written and registered on July 24, 1748, when Abdullah Pasha himself was present. One of the most important units of this foundation is Cyprus's water supply, which is now being used by the Greek Cypriot Cypriot Cypriots and belongs to this foundation. So let's give water to Northern Cyprus. There has been no attempt to use water belonging to the Abdullah Pasha Foundation until now. The Lala Mustafa Pasha Foundation was founded in 1571 by Lala Mustafa Pasha, the commander-in-chief of the Ottoman army that conquered Cyprus. The property of Lala Mustafa Pasha, who built his tent in the vicinity of Deepia, is 30,000 acres from his tent to Marash. There are 6,775 acres of land in Nicosia, the foundation's only land. In view of all of this, 78 percent of the Marasian region appears to be made up of the real estate of these foundations. When Cyprus was entrusted to the British in 1878, it was considered about 300,000 acres of land. Currently, there are around 30,000 acres of foundation land available. They have been changed by both the British and the Greeks in various ways. For example, it's in the documents that the British base is now the foundation property. In this case, about two thirds of the entire island appear to be under the rule of the foundations. After Operation Peace in 1974, 44 per cent of the foundation's assets, as well as 63 per cent of its revenues, remained in the Greek region. According to international law rules, the foundation is not being transferred or timed. The Greek Cypriot foundations, mentioned in 1878-1960, were also recognized on a legal and constitutional level during the British era and during the 1960-1974 common republic. The agreement between England and the Ottoman State on 4 June 1878, which included the lease of the island of Cyprus to England, has been carried out by Article 2 of Protocol 1 July 1878. In 1914, when the British adopted Cyprus as an excuse for the First World War, they did not make an arrangement that was incumbent on the common sense of Evkaf. On the contrary, in 1915 Cyprus, the imperial decree under the name of the Muslim religious non-result is confirmed that it is in effect. While Cyprus is officially handed over to England by Article 20 of the Lausanne Agreement, there is no reverse arrangement or decision regarding the Lawful Evkaf. Today, these foundations are under the management and supervision of the Cyprus Foundations Administration. While London and Zurich agreements were under way in 1959, former President Rauf Denktash issued a draft draft draft of an agreement on the rights of the Turkish Cypriot community concerning the gasbed foundation's assets and that they would be resorted to restitution and restitution measures. Despite all these legal frameworks, these rules have been gradually violated by the British and the Greeks, especially since 1878, and especially since 1913, and a significant portion of the foundation's property has been condemned. It would give us an idea of the significant and financial size of this property, which has been seized by illegal means, to say that its value as land alone exceeds $100 billion and that the financial income that the foundation's administration has been missing for nearly a hundred years is around a trillion dollars. Meanwhile, the Gazi Magosa Accident Court has made an important decision for the Turkish side. The decision said that Maras would be given to the Greeks in exchange for the removal of the isolations, but was registered by the Magosa Accident Court, where the region was founded. The Turkish side has been given serious leverage by the court's ruling that the land cycles during the British administration were against the law. A new chapter can be turned over in the closed Marash and Cyprus issue, which are expected to lead to the Greek settlement, due to the failure of the foundation's goods. Who owns the cross? As a matter of fact, my time is very limited, so I'll be brief. The foundation belongs to Abdullah Paşa and Lala Mustafa Pasha Foundations, which constitute an important part of the property looting and were found to have been looted in 1913. The documents were found in the basement of a hotel in the Marasian region ten years ago. Thus, these books from 1910 to 1930 contain deeds. So it has been determined that the real estate, which is said to be owned by the Greek Cypriots in Cyprus today, belongs to Turkish foundations. So, depending on this, as there is no way to sell these foundations that are subject to the absolute foundation, there is no way that they can be transferred or traded in any way. Thus, Turkey's idea of giving the closed Maraş region to the Greeks is completely against international law. On the other hand, in December 2003, Turkey was sentenced by the ECHR to pay 1.1m euros in compensation to a Greek woman named Loizidu for failing to use her property in Girne since 1974. After that, the personal application for the property of the Greek woman Arestis left in the closed area of Maraş (Pharaoh) before 1974 is also a new case that will affect Turkey deeply on the property issue and on the looting of its foundations in Cyprus in 1998. The ECHR sentenced Turkey to pay 885000 euros in compensation. However, the foundation of the Turkish Cypriot Republic of Northern Cyprus clearly states that this property belongs to the Abdullah Pasha Foundation. According to the attorney of Arestis, there are 5,000 similar movers in Maraş. It reveals the reality of the matter in its nakedness. Dear lawmakers, when we look at the other side of the business, the documents of the Arestis estate, the original foundation property, are the documents we have. Therefore, it must be questioned as to why this was not presented to the ECHR. Why did those who ruled Turkey or Cyprus not present them to the ECHR? On the other hand, if we take these seriously, we'll be able to prove that property in Marashan is registered in the names of the Greeks by violating the principles of the common law, and that's how we'll turn the Greeks into defendants, not plaintiffs, not plaintiffs. Therefore, we ask the government to do the necessary work on this matter, and I hereby pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0059par0642	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Now, question answer according to Article 81. Mr. Halaman's in the system. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0060par0646	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0059par0647	No. Then the negotiations of Article 1 are complete. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. On the matter, Mr. Shandır, our Mersin MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0061par0655	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, first of all, I salute you. Of course, it's a joke, but when it comes to Cyprus and Mersin, I'd like to thank you for your patience in the first place. Indeed, as I said earlier in the question section, this matter has a very special significance regarding five villages in the valley of Dragon Tea of Anamur, in that valley; the village of Akine, the village of Ormanduk, the village of Sarıdağ, the village of Kılıç and other villages, and all the villagers are carefully watching these talks. Therefore, I'd like to start by repeating the Minister's words. Mr. Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs, Professor Dr. Veysel Eroglu, we will do whatever we say to these villages. We will do it in time. May I add?
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0062par0659	First of all...
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0061par0660	He said... we'll do it in time. I care about that, we're writing it down. Indeed, dear friends, on the slopes of the mountains of Toros, in their valleys, we owe a great deal of debt as the Republic of Turkey, as its government, to the people who are trying to earn their livelihood by tooth and nail, with their children. We have a duty to deliver the best of service to them. Those people who insist on living with their own efforts and honor on those mountaintops, we as a state have to fulfill our duty to them without delay, without delay, without delay. Therefore, knowing this opportunity, we have to make a pledge to those villagers, to you, on behalf of the government, to be elected by the people of those lands. Dear friends, this Alaköpru Dam is a very good investment; in every sense, the AKP authorities, the government, to me, have had a very good investment. It is especially important that the Turkish Cypriot Republic will meet the need of drinking water for our relatives living in Cyprus. To dare, to show courage, to make this decision, to make it very important, very valuable; congratulations, thank you; on behalf of the people of Cyprus, on behalf of the Turkish Cypriot people, I thank you very much on behalf of the Turkish nation. But it's important to Anamur, too. Some of the water will be stored in this Alaköpru Dam and will be moved to Cyprus, as long as they need it. As much as they need, they'll be given as much as they need, but the rest will be considered to be the water that the Anamur villagers will use in irrigation. For him, this dam has been a very good investment for both the people of Anamur and for our relatives who live in Cyprus. Hopefully, according to the Minister's statement, on March 7, 2014, this dam will be finished and the irrigation channels will be finished. I hope you'll give me an explanation.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0063par0663	There's 10 times as much water, 750 million cubic metres of water, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0061par0664	Yes, Hajji, it's okay. Thus, in the various plains of Anamur, the dam is an important dam for our peasant, who will water it with his own charm in the valleys -- it is very fragmented, the valley is shattered. With irrigation channels, I hope it'll be finished by now. But let me tell you something again: look, you're saying that you're paying $25 million for publicization here, right, but these people are farmers, these people don't deal in business or industry. They know agriculture, they know how to produce, they know the land, they know the animal. So you need to set up the ground for these people to do it. Look, we don't know where they're going yet. Article 2 (A) of Forest Law 6831 gives you this opportunity. You can move these villagers, you can put them in the forest openings, you can put them in the gaps. Look, you're going to move this entire village of Akine and a neighborhood of the forest village. Where are you gonna move it? It's unclear. For once, we need to give each of these villagers ten acres per household, and we need to water it, and we need to get them watered. These people farm alone and alone. Thus, we need to give these people hope in the future by preparing and preparing for what they know today. So you give them the money, that's over tomorrow, these villagers move to the city. Zinhar, it's not true that you're moving them to the TOKI buildings and you're saying that we've moved them, that it's not good for them, it's bad for you to black out their future. So we insist that the dwelling must be close to here, and they must also benefit from the water of this dam, and we must allocate some land between eight and 10 acres of land that can provide for them, so that he can build his greenhouse, grow his vegetables, grow his fruit, and provide for his own children. I'm telling you again, my dear Master, you're paying a price for their land, but it's the stately agha who doesn't take a price for the land you're going to give them. I hope you have a schedule at this point, you have a plan, and I hope you'll explain it to our peasant on this occasion. Dear MPs, of course, when it comes to Minister of Forestry and Minister of Water, and it's about Mersin, we also need to talk about the dams related to Göksu Valley, about the Göksu River. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, believe me, our citizen is being victimised by the state's decision. There's tea running in front of his garden, a stream running, but he can't take a drop of water from that stream and water his trunk. The State Waterworks' decision, in accordance with its decision to allocate, is that the peasant is looking, the stream is flowing, but the bostians can't be watered. In this sense, we've come to the Minister many times, and they've given him hope, but the villagers in the Skywater Valley can't produce products if they can't water them, so it's imperative that they allocate water to themselves or, at work, allocate them from the dams to be built. At this point, I hope the government and the Minister also have an zeal, a decision, a project. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, at the end of my words, I would like to remind you of January 3rd. January 3rd is the day Mersin survived the French occupation. In fact, it's not right to call it the day of salvation, it's for every city. Some of our friends will remember, and the brother will remember, and I said here at other times, that on this day of salvation, the expression is wrong, it means agreeing to accept captivity and be released from captivity, I must say on the day of victory. Our ancestors... Isn't that right, governors?
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0064par0674	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0061par0675	Yes, the day of victory. So the French intended to invade the British, then the French intended to invade Mersin, brought their ships, brought their soldiers, but failed in the occupation. In conclusion, they left on the note given in December 1921. If We celebrated these days as a day of salvation, we would be unjust to ourselves and wronged our fathers. These are our glory days. On January 3rd, Mersin lived such a beautiful day on December 27th. So I joined them. I'll tell you something else: dear friends, problems are a wholeness. If we want to solve these problems of Anamur, my request from you, from the government, from the ministers, from Mr. AKP Group is to declare Anamur. Anamur Antalya is a place that is 250 kilometers to Mersin, 250 kilometers to Konya, on the edge of such a sea, but on the edge, forgotten, but if we make it a province, it is possible to travel a very serious distance to solve its problems. Hopefully, I believe that by 2014, until this dam is built, we will declare Anamur. Anamur is truly a paradise corner with his land roads, his university, his province, his governor, hoping he'll have a beautiful future, and I wish you all the best, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-04sit01spe0065par0679	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Talks on matter are complete. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. There's no demand for word on matter. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. In addition, I would like to ask the ministers to vote in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote: ▪ Number of votes used: 280 [[x]] Mine LÖK BİYAK Muhammet Riza YALCHINKAYA That way the bill is accepted and legalized, good luck. I'm taking a 15-minute recess.
