tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I'm opening the 86/th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Denizli MP Nihat Zeybekcı, who asked for the appointment of March 30, Palestinian Land Day. Here you go, Mr. Zeybekci.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are celebrated as the National Land Day in Palestine every year on March 30th. On March 30, 1948, after the formalisation of Israel's invasion of Israel, it has been celebrated as Palestinian Earth Day in Palestine on 30 March for twenty-one years to emphasize the integrity of Palestinian territory, that occupied territory belongs to the Palestinians, and to confirm Israel's unlawfulness once again. I have also taken a pledge to support this day of the land of Palestine and its holy day, and I salute your grand delegation. Honourable MPs are the wounds of our brothers and sisters bleeding in Palestine. Unfortunately, this blood is being shed in our culture and faith geography, which is entrusted to us. There is no difference between the bloodshed of this blood in Yozgat, in Denizli, in Urbana, in Istanbul, in Gaza, and in the West Bank. At the same time, there is no difference between Baghdad and Bosnia, but there is no difference between Karabag and Cyprus. We are the closest and greatest advocate of this case in the world because of our human sensitivities and our responsibilities from history. Therefore, as a delegation of the Turkish World Council of Municipality, we set out from Turkey on 23 March -- last Friday -- to visit the municipalities of Gaza, our member, to hold various talks there, to see where they were, to share the sufferings of our Palestinian brothers. One MP, four mayors, six municipal representatives, and we arrived at the city of El Arish, where Palestine, Gaza, was the gate of Egypt. When we arrived at the Egyptian side of the gate of Prosperity at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday morning, we gave our passports to the Egyptian authorities along with our approved list. An hour later, Egyptian authorities confirmed to us that we had the approval of six friends from the 11-person list, and that there were four mayors, including myself, without the approval of five people. Right after this strange and incoherent response, we made diplomatic attempts and immediately contacted the Egyptian ambassador to Ankara, and immediately contacted the Turkish Ambassador to Cairo. We waited for exactly six hours, saying that Egypt's ambassador to Ankara would take care of it immediately, and after six hours, we returned to the city of El Arish with great disappointment, and we delivered our values to Gaza by handing them to them when the ant went black. In Gaza, they met with district chief Ismail Haniye and 25 mayors. They returned in one day to pay us a visit there for two days. Mr. President, not one of us really needed a visa to go to Egypt here. This approval and visa was meant to pass by Egypt to Gaza, because it belonged to Egypt, not to Gaza, but to the Palestinian government, to approve, to accept, to accept. With that authority, Egypt was extremely shy, even cowardly enough to send back a Turkish MP after six hours of waiting at the border crossing. What I'm trying to bring to your attention here is the occupation, embargo and persecution of Palestine-Gazze. As a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a person who failed to enter Gaza with the Turkish Republic's diplomatic passport, I took this promise to draw attention to how severe the conditions that were imposed on the people there were and how the persecution constituted a violation of international agreements, human rights. Of course, it upsets us that we could not enter Gaza, but what saddens us is that this inability to enter is that it was provided by Egypt, which was prevented by Egypt. We've only planned this visit for human purposes. I'd like to point out in particular that this has not reduced our faith in Palestine and our interest in it, but has, on the contrary, increased our interest. Hopefully soon, we will visit Gaza with a larger delegation of our parliamentary, MPs, and mayors. On behalf of the Turkish nation, I would like to express a wish and hope that humanity will no longer allow this persecution to continue, and that all religions and nations in the region, in peace and brotherhood, will make peace with each other, and that Turkey will be the greatest architect of those days. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With these feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0003par0023	Thank you, Mr. Zeybekci. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Aydın MP Ali Longırmak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0004par0028	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with all due respect. Dear lawmakers, with his power and opposition, this country is all of us. So all the problems in this country, all the solutions, are the areas that need to be searched. Dear lawmakers, the authorities, the governments must predict and learn from the past, experience, but unfortunately we can't say that about our current government. It's our biggest problem today to hit our heads against the walls, grope through the dark, take no lessons from the past, do samples, misexamples, unfortunately not be able to make the past right, and not predict the future right. Very valuable lawmakers, a story in the papers today, the Prime Minister says: What would happen if we didn't go to Europe for five years? England did not go. The British example is an example that does not match Turkey. In England, sports measures stem from a Heysel disaster and the problems of the audience, the fans. However, the problem with Turkish sports today is not because of the audience and fans problem, but because of the fix in sports, and if we can't diagnose the source of the problem, we can't predict the solution correctly. So, where did the problem come from? The problem here, unfortunately, is how can I surround the government in all areas that are not from me? Here, first, the government has surrounded public information, communications tools, and has surrounded the solutions to any problems, disaster, or even the problems that have arisen by mobilization, pressure, threat, unfortunately, by perception management, by perception management, by perception management, by what's being done, by what's being done, by what's being done. So in Turkish sports, there was also a fraud operation, but it was so misdirected when the operation began, that even though the first-time fraud had been compromised in a way that we understood later, it was left open, and investigations were carried out in a way that many others and clubs might be accused of, and in conclusion, if the operation on the first crime had been done correctly, there would be no mention of eight clubs today, perhaps two clubs. So there would be no mention of hundreds, perhaps three or five, and there would be no agenda for the collapse of the Super League. But what did the government do? He left the tip open for rematching, taking over, surrounding the sector, and then it got bigger, it went further than the crime, the criminals multiplied and ended up in the league. Although the league was finished, the Turkish Football Federation registered the league this time, even though the investigations were informational. That league registration was supposed to be speculation, and we didn't even learn from it. After that, the Federation elections were seized, the government's relations again in the Federation elections, and then we had a crisis in the Federation, a new Federation change after the Federation's depression, and a sports sector that was unable to participate in the European Cups today. Very valuable lawmakers, we can't escape the problems of perception management within the siege. Look, the government is making huge mistakes. At Erzurum, a sports complex was built, a ski track was built, but despite trillions of money being spent, the ski track cannot be opened to international competitions because its measurements are not in line with the criteria.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0005par0034	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0004par0035	You said it was an Olympic Games in Trabzon, but it was a youth play, and it was spent trillions of dollars, and again, within a perception management, society is being deceived day by day. Very valuable MPs, I wanted to draw your attention to these matters. The government must turn from these wrongs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The government must continue to do the right work, not with perception management, but with the right way and experience. The government is responsible for the situation in which Turkish sports has fallen.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0006par0039	Thank you, Mr. Tallie.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0004par0040	Thank you very much, good day, and good work, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0006par0042	The third non-responsive statement is from İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, who wants to talk about the issues of Sultanbeyli district of İstanbul. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0007par0046	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a promise of Sultanbeyli's problems. Sultanbeyli became a municipality on 31 December 1987. In the first election held on 26/12/1989, the Prosperity Party candidate Ali Nabi Koçak, again the Prosperity Party candidate Ali Nabi Koçak, John Karakaya from the Fazilet Party in 1999, Alaattin Ersoy from AKP in 2004, Hüseyin Keskin from AKP in 2009... Why am I giving you this chronological date? The reason for my giving is that Sultanbeyli, from the time he was a municipality to today, the same mentality, the same people, the same ideology, is managed by the same people. So, what is the reason for Sultanbeyli's problems, what is it that has saved Sultanbeyli's problems, brought them to this stage, made the people miserable, deprived of their homes, victimized, and created unemployment? In terms of the fact that the parties that have these ideas are not really for the benefit of the public, but for the sake of the public. What are the district issues of Sultanbeyli? In Istanbul Sultanbeyli, water samples from dozens of fountains where citizens cover drinking water were found unclean. So, what happened when it got dirty? Because our citizen is comfortable, poor, he's faced with drinking the dirty water there. What happens in a social state? The İzmir Dikili Municipality gives the citizens up to 10 tonnes of drinking water, which is required by a social state, free of charge. What did the AKP Power do? They filed charges against the İzmir Dikili Municipality -- for giving it to 10 tonnes of water free -- have been indicted -- there are still judges in Turkey -- in fact, the court has decided to be acquitted because of the social state principle. In the same way in the Sultanbeyli municipality -- the mindset that confronts the drinking of dirty water there -- should be given free water up to 10 tons, according to the principle of the social state, which is stated in our Constitution. If a leader like the Republican People's Party Mayor had become a leader, the people of Sultanbeyli would not drink dirty drinking water today, clean, free of charge to 10 tons of water. What is it? It's a parking problem in Sultanbeyli. The municipality has been established since 1989, always, so far, parking problems, parking problems, parking problems... so far, parking fees are paid for under Article 37 and 44 of the zoning Act. What is being done under Article 5 of the Parking Convention? The money taken for the purpose of the parking lot cannot be set aside for another purpose. However, one of Sultanbeyli's most important problems is Hasanpaşa neighborhood. Dear friends, there are 7,000 people living in Hasanpaşa neighborhood, and all of the dwellings that were built here are houses built during the AKP period, and this is: One, the power is on. 2) He's been given water. 3) Street names have been issued. 4) The street names have been given. 5) The sidewalks are now in place. 6) The streets are built. 7) All of the asphalts have been made. All right, brother, it's the city that did this. Who does the citizen trust? They trusted the municipality, believed in the municipality, and built three-story, four-story, five-story dwellings there. In every election until now, we will give you the deed. They said, "We will give you the deed in every election." They said, "We will give you the ticket." They sent the sentence with a court order, the decrees were sent, the decrees of destruction were sent, the evacuations were sent. After every election, if you vote properly, we'll give you the deed... Dear friends, so far, the people of Sultanbeyli have been deceived. And it's time to put an end to the deception of the sultan's people. The people of Sultanbeyli are not prisoners of the AKP. There's a Republican People's Party, a very comfortable alternative to the Sultanbeyli people. I salute you all. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0008par0063	Mr. Tanal, thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Hrant Dink died on January 19, 2007 in a shooting in front of the AGOS newspaper. Although nearly five years have passed since the murder, the original responsible have not yet been revealed, and the trial process has been extended for different reasons. Telecommunications Communications (TİB), which could open the mystery of Hrant Dink's murder, is alleged to have caused the trial to prolong by not sending the necessary information and documents to the court. Under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution, we propose and propose Parliamentary Research on whether the TİB, which has been severely neglected in the process of prosecution, is fulfilling its responsibilities. On the day of the murder, the TİB has denied the request to send phone numbers to those present at the time of the murder on the court channel by lawyers who have claimed that four other people were caught on phone calls in front of the AGOS newspaper and that there would be "a violation of privacy." The TİB announced that it had sent four mysterious persons at the scene to court in 2010, while on 17 June 2011, it objected to the sending of the records on grounds of the privacy of private life." According to a 2006 amendment, GSM operators' records are kept directly by TİB. The TİB was later sent to court that two companies did not have cell towers in the area, while the third company was 11 p.m. and 11 p.m. on the day of the murder. 25 to 14.45-15. He informed me that no phone calls were made in the area between 00 hours. This statement of the TİB is intended to extend the court process. Because each three GSM companies later stated that TİB's statements were not true. The person who wrote "recep_akkus" on the Web site www.guturkistan.net -- on January 16, 2006, shared his statements to the Turkish court for the sake of slaps on both Hrant Dink and Orhan Pamuk, to show that we do not believe in their laws, to show that we do not believe in their laws. Ogun Samast and other indictees, who were tried as the shooters of Dink's murder, also said that they read online that Dink had insulted Turk and downloaded his pictures from the Internet during the preparation of the murder. The text on www.guturkistan.net website is still on the site at 20.10.2011, when the research proposal was prepared. The truth behind TİB's five years of non-processing of this site must be questioned, which prevents access to thousands of sites each year, setting up an Internet tip center at www.tib.gov.tr. The TİB, which insisted on not sending a transcript of phone calls made at the murder site on the day of Hrant Dink's murder and informing the court that there were no phone calls made in the area, has finally announced that the court would "replace" the court's request if any "responsible talks" were held in the area. To further further the TİB process, which was asked by the court for information, he went to ask for information from the court. It is said that the fact that he was acting in an attempt on the murder of Hrant Dink was the result of TİB's access to Cult-Cemat control. On January 19, 2012, the murder of Hrant Dink would have been five years ago. Due to a stalled tactic by the TİB, the process of deleting records is three months away. The most important evidence to solve the mystery of the murder will never be found. Once the records are erased, the court process will cease to exist. Despite Turkey's lack of press freedom and severe criticism of ethnic identity protection and the prime minister's statement, "I am a word of honor," it has so far not been reached by the original perpetrators of Hrant Dink's murder for reasons considered above. A parliamentary investigation into the mission, authority and responsibilities of the TİB, which has been under major duties in order to clarify Hrant Dink's murder, appears to be necessary. [[Malatya]] [[Tunceli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] 9) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Hatay]] 11) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 12) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Bolu]] 14) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly From 1984 to the beginning of the terrorist incidents, nearly 7,000 members of security have been killed. The last 24 soldiers were killed on October 19 by PKK terrorists who attacked 8 different locations in Hakkari Çukurca and Yüksekova at the same time. The Trekukca raid, the bloodiest five of the terrorist attacks that have been going on for 27 years, has once again revealed that intelligence agencies have failed to fully perform their duties. In order to prevent acts of terrorism condemned by all parts of the community, we propose and propose the opening of Parliamentary Research under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution concerning whether military and security intelligence units have carried out their duties, powers and responsibilities. On October 19, 2011, attacks were carried out by 200 Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) members, Çukurca District Police Command, Çukurça Police and Gendarme Lodges, Kökambi Tepe, Baski Tepe, Han Tepe and Gazi Tepe base districts, at the same time with heavy weapons, rocket launchers and long barrel guns. It is alleged that members of the terrorist organization have been preparing for several days to attack, massing heavy weapons across the border for two weeks. MIT, Police, the fact that the gendarme intelligence units are not aware of these preparations has been the most painful indicator of Turkey's situation with terrorism. We think it's very meaningful that the government's intelligence organizations, who work in the middle of private life in cities, who listen to the Chief of Staff, the MPs, in legal and illegal ways, can't detect 200 terrorists coming across the border to our country and carrying out a bloody terrorist attack. It's also a question of who these units were listening to when the terrorist attack took place. Before and during the terrorist attacks, we propose and propose that Parliamentary Research be opened under Articles 98, 104 and 105 of the Constitution in accordance with Articles 98, and 105 of the Constitution concerning whether the military and Security Intelligence units carried out their duties, powers and responsibilities. [[Malatya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 4) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Hatay]] 9) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 10) Ayşe Gülsın Bilgehan [[Ankara]] [[Bolu]] 12) Dilek Akagün Yilmaz [[Janitor]] [[Mersin]] [[Hatay]] 15) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Erzincan]] 17) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 19) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Manisa]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the measures related to water pollution in Akkaya Dam Lake and its problems with human health, ecological balance and environment, we propose that a Parliamentary Investigation be opened under Articles 104 and 105 of the Constitution. The Akkaya Dam is a dam built in Niğde Province, on Tabakhane Tea, between 1964 and 1967. The dam, which is a hull-type soil filling, serves to water a 2,277 hectare area with a mass of 426,000 (m3) cubic metres (m3). The dam was raised in 2003 by the deaths of several fish due to lack of oxygen due to water pollution. In the years following the death of fish, the dam lake began hosting numerous migratory birds, especially flamingos. In 2005, the Ministry of Environment and Forestry declared the area's importance as "International Relations" as part of the Ramsar Convention. Thus, it is determined to be an international Akkaya wetlands area, leaving a dam for irrigation purposes only. In addition to fast-existing recluse ducks, there are several species of heron flamingos, pelicans, and about 10 duck species. In the 1970s, the "Akkaya Dam Lake" watering site of Niğde University has become a habitat for birds, with different types of habitats such as reeds, reeds, rocks, machis, moors, trees, and so on. The number of birds in Akkaya Pond has reached 207, along with 12 new species detected in the last year. The Akkaya Pond is home to half of the bird species that are regularly seen in our country. Not just birds, but in some streams in the watering basin of the pond, endemic species of fish also live. So especially in the spring, many foreign tourists and bird watchers come to our country to see Akkaya Pond. Water pollution occurs when municipalities, industrial institutions, prisons, and Niğde University's wastewaters in the vicinity of Niğde and around the Akkaya Dam are located in the dam area because the existing treatment facilities are not fully operational. The Niğde municipality's decontamination facilities do not work, and the waste that has been launched into the dam is causing serious ecosystem disruptions in the region. Thus, in various media reports, the dam site has been described as "Nide's waste dump." Akkaya Sulay's operation has been transferred to Bor Municipality, where business-care work is conducted by the municipality. Water controls suggest that the living creatures living in water are at risk, as well as the fields and gardens in Bor Plain, which are watered by water in the dam. The growth of parasitic diseases, such as cystic hydatics, is noticed with grazing animals in the area. Between 1999 and 2004, mass fish deaths took place in a row as a result of insufficient measures. Current pollution has caused bad smell in the environment, and it has allowed winged insects like flies, mosquitoes, to exist. In addition, products from agricultural areas watered by dam water have the potential to pose a risk on human health. Water pollution has also caused complaints by those who watered the dam. Because of the data on Akkaya Pond's current pollution situation and lack of information on the solution of these problems, comments on the dam lake are based solely on possibilities. So far, it is clear on different platforms and platforms that limited individual and institutional work on Akkaya Dam Lake and environmental problems is nothing more than good intentions. The water supply that feeds Akkaya in order to preserve the volume of Akkaya's "Akkaya Dam" must be prevented from losing in water beds until it reaches Akkaya Dam: the use of lightweight and irresponsiblely should be controlled. The work needed to increase the water capacity of the dam must be done comprehensively by relevant institutions and organisations. Companies that require chemical decontamination and pre-decontamination also need to establish a pre-decontamination facility. Sufficient measures must be taken to prevent the arrival of waste and wastewaters that can be classified as chemical waste or direct industrial waste. It is clear that the Akkaya Dam has to begin preparations without losing time in the light of local, regional and national resources to clean up. The Akkaya Dam Lake, which has vegetation and wildlife, is interested in landscape integrity, has an important tourist structure for introducing our natural resources and our country. It is about to lose its importance due to water and pollution. It is thought that it would be appropriate to open Parliamentary Research in order to permanently resolve this important problem that threatens its health and to leave healthy drinking water and a habitable environment for the next generation at Akkaya Dam Lake and to investigate the causes of environmental problems. [[Niğde]] [[Malatya]] 3) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 6) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Edirne]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Manisa]] 11) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 13) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Bolu]] 20) Emine Ulir Tarhan [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Tekirdağ]] 23) Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu [[40s.]] [[Edirne]] 25) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Zeybekci, according to Article 58 of the Civil Code, you have a written application to correct a statement made to the transcripts in the last session. Here's to the stand. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0009par0255	Thank you very much, my dear President. Members of parliament, this is the seat of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, representing the sovereignty and independence of the nation. It is impossible for any of our MPs to approve of any attack on this bench. To occupy this bench, to attempt to invade it is a practice that should not be approved almost as much as the coup attempt and the coup attempt. On the other hand, I'd like to report that I've also condemned any attack on a witness speaking on this stand. I've made a promise here last night to make it clear that after a statement by our Dear Group Vice President in his speech here, the statement I gave him from my position was very misunderstood and unbecoming to me. So in this Parliament, should we come with a gun that should never be spoken in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey? I take back what I said in response to what I said, "If you don't come, I take back what I said, and I apologize for this misunderstanding from our esteemed Deputy Minister of the Group." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I salute all of you, wishing that our House would sign successful works.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0010par0261	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0011par0265	I didn't know what you were saying anyway. Well, he got it back, so he said something bad. [[Laughter]] Thank you. We just fixed it in front of the cameras, so let's do it again here. And my promise was this: "The constitution is over, and it is not implemented; the Civil Law is not carried out, Parliament is not under law, it is attacking our friend on the stand, and will we come here with a gun?" This is all I have said. I haven't carried a gun in nine years. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0012par0270	Point taken, Mr. Tünce. Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. (x) Statements on this correction are found on page 1054 (b. 30.03.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday, 30,03,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 10,12,2011, Gaziantep MP Mehmet Candy and his friends suggested that the Parliamentary Research Forum, given for the purpose of resolving policies for resuscitation of our relations with Syria, be read to the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly at the same time in the same time as other proposals waiting to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. Gaziantep MP Mehmet Şeker is in favor of the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0013par0287	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our proposal to open Parliamentary research to determine the economic loss of our trade relations with Syria as a result of policies followed against Syria, to determine the effects of this loss on the people of the region, the tradesmen, the industry and exporters, and to re-enact the policies that will be followed to revitalise our trade relations. I salute you all. Until 2002, our relations with Syria followed a tense course in Syria due to the terrorist organisation's activities, water sharing and Hatay's problem, but it began to soften with positive steps after 2002. The bilateral visits of the presidents of the two countries, the implementation of the Free Trade Agreement, the signing of the High-level Strategic Co-operation Council Agreement, the reciprocity of visas, have made significant distances with Syria in economic, cultural and social areas. As a result of these developing commercial and economic relations, a trade volume of $2.5 billion has been reached. Through Syria, an important door to the Middle East, Turkey was trading in 11 countries. There was a volume of commerce that had reached about $3 billion in the luggage trade. With visas lifted, mutual, border crossings increased, 60,000 people became one of the most important sources of income to sustain the local trades. We have 30 companies and 10 contractors who actively invest in Syria. However, the decline in Syria and exports with Syria has reached 37 per cent and the decline in imports has reached 62 per cent due to the irregular policy followed by the AKP government against these events. The number of Syrians entering Turkey to travel, to shop, to be treated has been cut as a knife. In Syria, investors stopped their investments and faced an uncertain future. Transit trade has stopped, proposed alternative roads costing thousands of vehicles have been thrown out. Thousands of families are struggling to make ends meet with the suitcase trade that has reached a standstill. Dear friends, we all know that what happened in Syria today is the result of America's energy policy. The United States wants a puppet government in Syria, which wants to take control of Syria's Port of Lazkye, in case Iran shuts down the Hurmuz Straits for oil traffic, so that it can move Iraqi oil to the Mediterranean. The AKP, unfortunately, is subservient to its policy against Syria and its commitment to the United States. Unfortunately, the government is responsible for this painting, which now includes both the locals and the tradesman, the businessman and the exporter. Peace in the nation, which we have watched for years and will be an example to the world. We are sadly disregarding its policy, and the seeds of hostility have now been planted between us and the Syrian people. Unfortunately, the AKP takes all its steps on Syria under instructions from the United States. I know a lot of our fellow lawmakers here are going to object to this, but I'm sure a few examples of the objections I'm about to give will show the inadequacy. In January, a camp of containers was set up for refugees from the Ministerial Border Gate of the Church. If Syrian refugees haven't made an early container reservation with an application similar to an early hotel reservation, there is only one explanation for the attempt to camp for the non-existent refugee, which is to provide military assistance and logistical support to the Assad opponents at the zero point of the border, because it is a four-quarter province for the United States of America that wants to climb events in Syria and bring it to its conclusion as soon as possible. In January, I asked the refugee who was not burning the tents while the victims were freezing in the tents. I asked him, "Is it fair to build a container city?" And so far, unfortunately, I have not received an answer from power. Dear friends, in recent weeks, the process of physical intervention in Syria has been accelerated following the control of the Syrian army of the opposition's most important resistance point in Hummus. What did he talk to the C.I.A. President and the Undersecretary of the MIT, whose arrival was kept secret? Is it possible for the State Department to call on Turkish citizens to return home to Syria, to consider the subsequent explosions in Syria, to shut down our embassy in Damascus, to consider the start of a tent camp of 20,000 people in the Islamic district of Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa's Ceylanpınar district, independent of talks with the CIA president? Is it a coincidence that these events took place one after another right after the President arrived? Is there anyone who believes that, friends? And then there's the trucks that got caught after the tip, dear lawmakers. ==History==Girbulaq Border Gate continues to protect the mysteries of trucks loaded with weapons and explosives captured at the Pioneer Border Gate of Kilis, which entered Turkey from the Gürbulak Border Gate. Two months after the deadline for the question of where these trucks came from, what was the origin of the weapons they were carrying, whether they had gone to the rebels in Syria, these issues were not explained in yesterday's response. Unfortunately, the answer to the question I'm asking is that I'm not going to read the articles here, friends. As a result of correspondence between the Chief of Staff and the Ministry of State and our Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding the destruction of such explosives and chemicals, no action has been carried out by the Ministry, since it is reportedly in accordance with the co-direction of the General Staff. Unfortunately, it's not clear where these trucks came from, my friends, but if they entered from the Georgian border gate, how did they get past ten provinces in a comfortable manner? Or are these trucks loaded from Incirlik? These weapons lead to the rebels? Are there trucks, other trucks, and other weapons that are not captured and moved to Syria? Did these cause the murder of innocent, poor people in Syria? AKP's Syrian policy is justified, and the private media that strives to get it right is equally responsible for the harm done by both our citizens and the Syrian government. Do they know what they are serving, who claim to be broadcasting from Syria, who are broadcasting from Hatay, who are hearing gunfire, who are being shot at, and who are being killed? Dear friends, it is everyone's common desire to have a democratic government in Syria today, but under the rhetoric of democracy, aggressive statements, aggression of sectarianism, increased conflict in Syria, and the actions of those in Syria, staying in Turkey, and setting up camps for them until the end. Dear friends, as the Republican People's Party, we don't say there's a democratic power in Syria, we know there are human rights violations in Syria, we know Syria doesn't have a democratic constitution, but there are many countries like this in the Middle East. We, the Republic of Turkey, have to do first and foremost in these countries, especially in Syria, our neighbour, Syria, where we have a border of 800 miles [850 km], give all the financial, spiritual support for the establishment of democracy, be sure to support it, but we have to intervene without making it look like our internal affairs. Mr. President, the fate of the $1 billion investment in Syria is unclear at this time. Dozens of companies have locked the doors of their factories in Syria, where they have laid off their workers. The unemployment of hundreds of family providers means that thousands of family members and thousands of people will be affected. Dear friends, these are the results of a quick assessment without further investigation. Of course, this is the tip of the iceberg. With a research commission to set up, the matter must be dealt with in all its aspects. With this commission, the events in Syria and all sections of the government's Syrian policy have to be determined, the damage is to be determined, the compensation work must be done, and new policies must be created to revitalize our trade relations with Syria. It says that we are on the side of every policy and work that helps to maintain peace and stability in Syria, not exacerbating tensions in Syria, but once again, I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0014par0310	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. It is Nurdan Şanlı, Ankara MP who wants to speak against the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0015par0314	Mr. President, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal for a group about the difficulties in our relations with Syria. I salute the General Assembly. Mr. President, our government has taken every precaution regarding the issue the CHP Group has requested to be taken into consideration. All the necessary talks are being conducted by our government, and in both international arenas and bilateral relations, the massacres of the Syrian administration are said to be inescapable. We hope that the human shame will end soon, and the Syrian people will soon become a democracy. Our relevant institutions, especially our Prime Minister, are showing and closely monitoring all measures concerning Syria, our neighbor, which the whole world has observed. We can, of course, have a longer discussion on this issue, but as we all know, we continue to discuss the First and Education Law in 199 rows and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. The opposition's motions, of course, will come back to the House when the time comes, but our priority now is the proposal of the law that we're discussing. So, I'm saying we're not in the motion, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0016par0318	Thank you, Mr. Glorious. In favour of the proposal, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0017par0322	Mr. President, dear friends, 40 years ago, 40 years ago today, the 10 most beautiful children of this country, the people of Turkey, entered the bosom of death at the time of their worst response. This exploitation, this persecution, so that there would not be life on this land, they had the courage that this land was not accustomed to. The Sea Gezmis, Yusuf Aslan and Hussein went on a journey to prevent the death of İnan, from being executed by the fascist regime on March 12th, and were destroyed today by the bloody representatives of the countererilla who still roamed the grounds. Not long ago, a couple of years ago, British secret service documents were released, saying they were killed by a cannon. I bow before the memory of Mahir Çayan, Omar Mirror, Jahan Alptekin, Sinan Kazim Özüru, Ertan Saruhan, Saffet Alp, Sabattin Kurt, Nihat Yılmaz, Ahmet Atasoy, and Hüdai Arikan. (Applause from the BDP and CHP) I promise once again that we will keep the revolutionary struggles high with these ten carnation symbols that I have taken over with our brother, our fellow Ertugrul Furcier. Now, we support this motion for research on the Syrian issue, but it's good to look at the background of the matter, because we're being held hostage by a total lie and manipulation. There's a new concept that the Neocons started with Obama. I don't mean any insult in that, so I'll start by saying that. A Mr. Davutoglu's arrogance has stopped him from seeing the issue and showing it to Turkey. I'm not talking to any of the boys, I'll tell you why. The new paradigm, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, and the Israeli equation was no longer sufficient to maintain order and order in the Middle East. The new paradigm of the imperialist system has been decided to withdraw them one step at a time, and respond to the policy of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Davutoglu. Why? Special security forces, designed to be an Iraqi occupation in the Middle East and to be a gendarme of all the peoples and countries in the Middle East, raised the American hatred in the Middle East far above what they had designed and predicted, called for a gendarme. Unfortunately, when they called, they turned to Turkey, which, as they said from their most competent mouth, called your only precious export property, your army. The arrogance here wasn't enough to read that policy. It's always, especially conservative friends, who, in part, have a right to express this subconscious Arab hostility in Turkey, there's a huge right to do so. Yes, it's the result of a decaying subconscious that starts every time the Arabs start talking, they shoot us behind our backs, but here's the opposite: there's an approach with a Turkish arrogance, so there's another version of the understanding that he condemns and rejects. An older brother tried to get involved in reading this new paradigm in the Middle East, by acting like an unknown master. Now, this plan has broken down a Blue Marmara incident. In the matter of the Blue Marmara, Israel is a colonial state designed not to be destroyed. The destruction of Israel means the destruction of America and England. That doesn't mean it can't be destroyed. I'm talking about a rational analysis. But Israel has anti-war rallies with 500,000 people. If we really had a brilliant Foreign Minister, he should be able to calculate that the anti-war public opinion in Israel, I mean this murder case, this murder case, I'm referring to the blue marmara, israel's own civil court, and as a case of domestic policy and a petty murder, Israel should be able to take it to the public and search for the grounds of transformation from here. Now, they didn't do that. Where did they go? To the international platform. What does that mean? So the woman who did this abuse, the woman who made the men they designed not to be destroyed, they complained to us. Then you accept the legitimacy of this court. This court slapped a decision on your face and said Israel was right. An energy, a swing, an appeal has been extinguished in a situation where many of our people have lost their lives; today no one remembers. And we see an extension of that arrogance in the Syrian issue. At the coming point, there is a difference between Assad and his persecution from other dictators in the Middle East. Assad has a base of mass there. He says he'll withdraw to Lazkye. This Syria divides, other forces put a buffer zone between them, and everyone wins a status, including the Kurds, and this buffer zone sits on our agenda as the biggest trouble Turkey has ever caused by its own hands. There are unidentified Kurds there, whose numbers are 2.5 million, according to a statistic, in the sense that they are bound by the word "ketmolum." It's the world's worst colonial form. In the 60s, when this Arab nationalism policy prevails there, we're going to do a population census. Their identities are collected, all other people's identities are distributed, the Kurds's aren't disbanded. Ever since then, they've been living without an identity, ruling on nothing. Now they're going to win a status, and they're afraid of the reflection of it in this country. What's he afraid of? Because you haven't completed the minimum human condition in this country. If you are certain of your own country and of your own people, there is only one known ancient way to this day: bans divide; liberty unites freedom. And you try to make this land swallow your own desires, that you may believe in your fears or in your doubts, and that you may understand it. The current situation is a picture of this policy going bankrupt. The point of this photo is that even a joint statement from a visit to Iran could not even be written in a joint statement. You think you can run a policy on the bar mitzvah with Iran, one of the world's oldest people. We're talking about a country that has politically wiped out many people from the history scene and its people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This policy will bring no happiness to the people in the region...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0018par0334	Mr. Commander, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0017par0335	It's not going to help with the freedom bet, it's going to have to be investigated. Thank you. I'm reminiscing about our comrades.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0339	Mr. President, I want the word according to 58.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0020par0340	Here you go, Mr. Agha. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0345	Dear friends, today is March 30th. First, I honor Mahir Çayan and nine of his friends who were slaughtered on March 30, 1972. They were the bright face of this country, the honor of this country. Ten hearts bleeding in the Indian province have left Turkey's people the legacy of the struggle for independence and democracy. Dear friends, there was an incident yesterday, and I'd like to say a few words briefly about that incident. I'm forty-four years old, friends, valued lawmakers. I fought once for forty-four years. When I was going to school three hundred -- I was in the village -- we had a row down the block, up the block, and I still get embarrassed when I see the guys I'm fighting with. I've never been in a fight or violence in my life, and I never will be. Look, guys, I'm talking here yesterday. Are you going to be violent about every thought that you dislike, every idea that you don't like?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0021par0349	You insult people's saints.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0350	Don't talk... you, too, look, you're violent, and you don't talk!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0021par0351	You're insulting people's sanctimonies.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0352	Don't talk! Don't talk!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0022par0353	Mr. Agha, please... look, according to Article 58...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0354	Look, guys, I...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0022par0355	Mr. Agbaba, let me remind you that you want to speak according to Article 58.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0356	That's what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0022par0357	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0358	I'm talking about him. Now, fellas, I went to the Board of Education. On the commission, I'm telling you now: if he says I didn't kick, I didn't throw. Let him say I didn't. I'll apologize to you. My friend, someone, one day to the Flood Köse, one day to our group's calmest MPs, one day later to the Free Special, the same person, the same person, I try to separate, kicks, slaps. What kind of democracy is that? For 20 years, I've worked hard to become a congressman, I've sacrificed my child, my job, my strength, I've done politics. Why? To talk about the Malatians' problems, the Malatians' thoughts here. Every time I go out, someone attacks me, every time I go out... a third of all the fights belong to that person. Guys, look...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0023par0361	Did the Malatian ask you about people's beards?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0362	I mean, don't get out of line, don't talk, okay? Don't get out of line, don't talk!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0024par0363	You've been promised according to 58. There's no need to blame.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0364	Whoa! Look, there's no such thing! Now, look, I'm telling you again: I don't mean all my friends who say this to me -- look, friends -- I teach those who do this violence to me, who invite me to discipline me now, I teach discipline to those who insult me, and I teach other lessons. Look, I'm telling you again: I'm forty-four years old, I'm not in a fight today, I'm not in a fight today, I'm not in that shame, and everyone should know that I'm not gonna be on the side of any more fights or violence. Now, I'd like to add one more thing. There was an attack here yesterday, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group condemned me, but you, my friends, I mean, would that happen? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm a friend of yours, and I'm a member of parliament here.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0370	Thank you, Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0371	Can anyone here tell me if any of you from the AK PARTY group can tell me how disrespectful I am to you, how negative I am to you? But you didn't dare to condemn me, my friends.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0372	Mr. Agha, please...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0019par0373	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0375	Thank you. Mustafa Gökhan Gülşen has asked for a statement against the Republican People's Party group proposal. Here you go, Mr. Gülşen.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0026par0382	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, as we all know, the primary education and education bill is on the agenda, followed by bills such as the public unions bill, the bill 2/B and the law on collective business relations. I respectfully announce that we have not participated in the Republican People's Party group proposal for the immediate discussion of these proposals that the public expects to adopt law, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0385	Thank you, Mr. Gülşen. I submit the group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Flagtutan, please.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0027par0390	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to express my deep regret about yesterday's events in the House in the morning. Just a moment ago, Precious, Mr. Congressman, who attacked the bench in yesterday's incident, Mr. Congressman, said in a TV channel that he would resist CHP's fascism both here and elsewhere, and he said in his television speech: I didn't use a word except the word "O." I asked for all the minutes. He insisted on using the word "bastard" in front of me. That's why I'm condemning the Congressman, and I'm saying from here, this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0393	Thank you, Mr. Flagtutan. Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0028par0396	Mr. President, I thank you, but I wanted to ask you this question, Mr. Minister of National Education is here.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0397	But Mr. Halaman, this is no time for questions.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0028par0398	It's not a question, Mr. President, it's just that I wanted to tell the Minister about a problem. There were temporary workers working for private administration in Adana. There are 391 of them. They worked as a resident at schools in the Ministry of National Education, temporary worker. They made all their exits at the beginning of last month, in case they didn't have to. Let the Minister take care of it. I...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0401	Mr. Halaman, thank you. According to the Civil Code, each one has its ways. Last word, Mr. Cloud, please.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0029par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a camp set up for opposition from Syria in the village of Apadun, Yayladağ district of Hatay Province, Turkey. In this camp, opposition soldiers who fled Syria -- it is said that their number is 250 -- the CIA states that the Mossad agents trained there, that they went to Syria and killed army officers on a dayly basis, where they killed military officers, in European, foreign newspapers. A congressman wants to break into the camp, he can't get into the camp. We are not in control of the camp, and according to the authorities, the Prime Minister has permission to do so. This is where relations with our neighbor, Syria, have come to this point, the international legal infrastructure of such an establishment...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0025par0407	Thank you. Congressmans, under the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our discussions with Kars MP Ahmet Arslan and Councilman Hussein Şahin and 7 MPs; the Law and the Plan and Budget Commission Report for Change in the Law and Public Relations Act on Compounding Some Investments and Services in the Framework of Adminal Tax Act. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Justice and Development Party Group Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramarash MP Mahir Ünal; Basic Education Act and Some Legal Proposal of Laws and Rize MP İstem Yaser İskıpor and 2 Congressmans; Justice and Development Party Vice Minister's Proposal on the Law; Justice and Development Group Vice Membership of the Security Agency; Minister's Office of the Commission and the Council of Ministers of Turkey; and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers for Higher Education, and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers for the Councils and the Council of Ministers of Ministers, shall be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be appointed to be under the Security of the Security and Security and Security and Security and Security of the Security and Security and Security and Security of the Commission of the Security of the Security and Security of the Commission of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers. of the Council of Ministers of Ministers. of Ministers and the Commission and the Council of the Commission. The commission and the government are in place. In the past session, three motions were read and carried out on Article 23 of Article 23 in the second chapter of the proposal, which was considered the basic law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Now, I'm going to re-read it to remind you of two of the most irregular motions that have been co-ordinated and the Commission and the government disagreed, and I'm going to make a separate commitment to the motion holders if they want to. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahramaraş MP Mahir Ünal's; Basic Justice and Education Law Orders for Making Changes in Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printers and 2 Congressmans; Justice and Development Party Party Party Group Chair Ahmet Aydın and Kayseri MP Mustafa Kayseri MP Mustafa Kayseri and Kayseri MP Mustafa Kayseri MP of Turkey's National Assembly; Constitutional Law Order for Making Changes in Some Laws and Education Laws; and Rize MP Hayati Printers and 2 Congressmans of the National Assembly of Higher Education Organization Law; Justice and Development Organization of Turkey's Constitution; Justice and Kays MP Mustafa Kayseri MP Mustafa Kayserli and Kayserli MP of Turkey's National Assembly; and Kays Association of the National Assembly of Turkey's Democratic Assembly of the National Assembly of Turkey; Constitution of Turkey's Constitution and the Constitution and the Constitutional Assembly of the Constitution and the Constitutional Assembly of Turkey (S). (x) 199 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 83rd Unification Charter, dated 27/3/2012. The Law Proposal of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın's Law Proposal for Amendment in the Law of Higher Education Institutions Organization; Amassian MP Avni Erdemir, MP Mehmet Altay and Mersin MP Çitem Münevver Ödekden (2/312) Under the Act of Central Higher Education Institutions Act; Dair's Proposal on the Law on the Law; Amassian MP Avni Erdemir, Minister Mehmet Altay and Münevver Üncünününününün, 2/32) The Law on the Law of Higher Education Institution; The Law on the Constitutional Law on the Constitution; The Constitutional Law Order of the Constitutional Law and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of Parliament and the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of the Constitution shall shall make make the Constitution shall be the Constitution. We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Recep Gürkan Mehmet S. Kesimoğlu Faik Tunay Mevlüt Dudu Veli Ağbaba We propose and propose that Article 23 of the 199 bill be removed from the text of the law proposal. Pervin Buldan Property One Hasip Kaplan Nursel Aydoğan Fair Wolf Levent Tüzel The secret is S. Leader İdris Baluken Husamettin Zenderlioğlu Emine Mirror Aysel Tuğluk Halil Aksoy Veli Ağbaba, Malatya MP who wants a word on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0030par0450	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. I was interrupted last night by an actual assault. I'm still talking. Dear friends, I'm the child of an Alevi Muslim family. I want to raise my child as a human being. In fact, the biggest feature of this 4+4+4 policy is that it's an assimilation policy. The goal is to assimilated all the beliefs except Sunni Islam. At the beginning of this comes the Flame. Now I'll give you an example of what happened today: in the village of Erzincan Grape Hunters, in this village, 200 metres from the gendarmes, the infidel Alevis, you will all burn to the ground. Dear friends, this law produces obedience in the first four, religion in the second four, spite in the last four. Therefore, this law is not a law that thinks of all who live in society. Dear friends, when a religious community is being trafficked by the word of a religious community, it is said that religion remains, and obedience is sought to be strengthened. It's the youth of the market who doesn't want justice, who doesn't want freedom, who doesn't want food, who doesn't want work, who's being raised by abscessive capitalism. A grudge against each other, a law-equipped, final retouch of society, in the final verse, dear friends. Now, look, this spite is something that happens both in Parliament and one day in Maras, one day in a neighborhood of Adıyaman, and today it happens in a village of Erzincan. Dear friends, lowness is a level indicator. Some people are called low because there's a position below it, and it's a pit. Those who don't know the limits of sucking up don't know the limits of aggression. Those who don't have an idea are resorting to violence. They must know that there was a time when there was Moses, and there was Pharaoh, and there was Spartacus, and there was Caesar, and there was Hazreti Ali, and there was Hazreti Hussein, and there was Yezid, and there was Pir Sultan, and there was Hizir Pasha, and there was Che Guevara, and there were CIA agents who killed him in Bolivia. There's a missile shield today, there's some against it, there's some who support it. I am with Moses, and I am with Hazreti Hussein, and I am with Ali, and I am with Pir Sultan, and I am with him, and I am with him, and I am with Deniz Gezmiş. I'm replacing someone with people's appreciation. Dear friends, this is the people's stand. I'm the people's deputy. I'm the people's voice. It's not really the people who are being attacked here, it's the people, it's the people, it's the people's voice, it's the people's voice that's being attacked. Someone's trying to escape after they've attacked, but I think the public's gonna pay for it, people are gonna pay for it. Dear friends, I end by saying one thing: Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the nation's Assembly, and no one has the right to humiliate this bench, this Assembly, the lawmakers, no one has the right to discredit the community. With these feelings, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0031par0460	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP demanding a statement on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0032par0463	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, language and culture can't be separated, one can't be separated, the other can't be separated, and six major stages are mentioned when it's described as an educational phase in particular. This is the childhood phase, family; five to twelve years old, school plus environment; 14 to 15, social environment; and the next part is university and business environment. In these phases, the adoption of two languages, the state of an individual's ability to speak two languages, and also in colonial schools, you know, the attempt to destroy a language that has often been applied in the past, assimilation, the subject of one language... Are we multicultural, multilingual, multilingual, different riches? When the answer to these questions is yes, appropriate solutions need to be brought to him. The state's unitary structure does not interfere with these solutions. It's widely known that in unification, in integrity, these problems can be overcome in democracy. Now, how does a man learn his native language? He can learn in the wild first. He can learn in teaching by using his own language. He can learn by taking advantage of all the lessons. Different language studies can be a tight relationship. He can benefit from various lessons and vehicle reasons. Language teaching, culture teaching... of course, some of the language teaching is not knowledge, but skill teaching. But the primary language teaching is also the teaching of thinking, and the basic fact that native language teaching is uninterrupted between the ages of four and fifteen is specifically said by linguists. The training of memory, the ability to speak, the development of active vocabulary; all of this is extremely important. But there's something strange about our educational system. So I'd like to ask the esteemed members of the Assembly: what if we did a survey -- there are a hundred and sixty-five universities in Turkey -- what if the University of Saladdin Eyubi is the name of a university, my friends? Or did Ahmadi Hani not look good in pain? Or in the west, scholars, linguists, just like the local University, so these things don't happen? So here we are destroying democracy, slaughtering democracy. Democracy, an act of participation, a pluralism, a partnership. We change the university name in five provinces, we don't ask people in that province, we don't ask the university in that province, we don't ask the students, we don't ask the students, we don't ask the citizens, we don't get the idea, we come to the parliament, we order you to do it: So we know it's not democratic: there are signature campaigns in many counties to change the names of universities later. Be careful in your own provinces, there are campaigns like this. For example, I came across it in Şırnak; the university, the youth of higher education, the people are offering a change of name. Now, if we start slaughtering democracy from Congress, if we make central orders, there's trouble because colleges are now called brands as an echo. It's not a brand of politics, it's not a brand of politics, it's a brand of universities; it's a brand of science, it's a brand of science, it's a freedom of science, it's a product, it's a product, it's a study, it's given, and it's given in history, and it's given to those who take its place on that date to live their names. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0033par0473	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of Act 199 be changed in the following way. Oktay Vural (Izmir) and his friends Article 23-21/12/2011, based on the 2012 Central Management Budget Act No. 6260, dated 2/9/1983, and referred to the Council of Higher Education Institutions 78/1983, under the Legislature of the Law, 13/12/1983, and by the General Assembly and its Constitution (1990), as well as to the universities of Ercias, Zonguldak Karaelmas, Bilcik, Konya and Kayseri Abdullah Gül. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0034par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0033par0484	Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP demanding a statement on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0035par0487	Thank you. Mr. President, of course, it is a reflection of the loyalty of any elder to give the names of those who have contributed to our country, our nation, our country, our country, our future, and the mechanisms that have passed on our culture and values from centuries to ages to ages to universities or to give to such institutions and organizations. But from such a narrow point of view, fanaticism, or dogmatic approach, it means to say yes to those who open their way or see them as having added to themselves one way or another and to say no to those outside themselves, and to ignore them as usual means not to use all of it. There's something here that we've already seen, and I want to say it out loud. Everyone is looking at the world from their own narrow space, so that they can open their eyes and involve other people in a approach to democracy, human rights, justice, law, where they put themselves in the center, prioritize their own values and in a way that suits their ego or their own interests. So in these proposals, we named the university after Sheikh Edebali. I couldn't understand who would object to the name Sheikh Edebali. So you're holding the name of a man who makes you who makes us who we are, who makes the earth land, who makes its existence, from the University of Bilecik. I wonder how you're gonna pay for this. Come on, you've given it to people, you've comforted them or deceived them, how can you give it to your conscience? And ye shall do so, and repeat in your tongues all the time, as ye have spoken, saying, O son. So I suggest we all look in a mirror. I have no comfort in this land, for I weep in my spring. Today I am an inhospitable bum in my own land. Says Akif, that's what this country's philosopher, thinker. To the people who belong to this country, to the people who built this country, we've always had the feeling of an inhospitable bum. Boil, Sakarya! You're weird in your own home, says you're a pariah in your own home. If Sheikh Edebali had lived today, I'm sure he would have said: You are Garb's disloyal, bloodless son. Serabah, you've had Garb. You've gone out of your way. And just to be clear, you've made a big mistake, and it's going to cost you the political cost. Second: The name of Alparslan Turkesh is to be given to a university... the claim, the ideal and the wisdom and the reputation of a nation, a nation, especially a nation, a nation, who has contributed to its national memory, and who is involved in an approach that allows that society to come to its own consciousness, and therefore has been marked by its time, internalizing all of its sufferings and not giving its name to the people who have done everything they can to promote their religion, to promote their conscience. And another thing: today we're giving names of Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President all over the place. Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President are highly respected people who have served the country. We are grateful for their service. There's no doubt about them. But what needs to be focused on is the representatives of a certain political bloc. And yet, Mr. Prime Minister is the president of a political party today. We name a university after the president of this political party, and the children of other political parties will be educated at that university; that's another part of the job. And what we're doing is that now, in the commission, it was adopted by members of the group that Mr. President was released from; the past was the establishment of Abdullah Gul University. It'll pass here, it'll pass.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0036par0503	Mr. Yeniçeri, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0035par0504	Here it will again be passed by the vote of the political party, which Mr. President has come out of, and before Mr. President, this bill will be passed.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0036par0505	Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0035par0506	Do you want Abdullah Gul University to open?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0036par0508	Mr. Yeniçeri, please.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0035par0509	We want President Abdullah Gul University to open under him. And we don't know how accurate that would be. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0036par0512	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit your votes on the matter: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There are four motions on the 24th article:
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0037par0515	Guys, this stuff is about orphaning rights.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit01spe0036par0517	Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0036par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 199. The commission and the government are in place. There are four motions on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the addition of the terms of the Treaty of the 199 Orders of the Law to be included in Article 24/3 and Article 4734, which will be included in the interim 13th Article, after the declaration of the Law. Mustafa Elitaş of Nurettin Caniklı Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı Osman Love Look Emrullah Business Congressmans, the three motions I'm going to now read are the same. I'll have three of them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 24th article of the Law Proposal, number 199, be removed from the proposal text. Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Özcan Yeniçeri Zühal Topçı Lütfu Türkkan Alim Imız Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Erdal Aksunger Hasan Ören Dr. Aytun Çiray Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Kamer Young
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0038par0025	Why are you missing the motion?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0036par0026	Three of them are the same thing.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0038par0027	No, sir, you need to read our motion as it is.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0039par0028	Read it from the top, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0036par0029	Mr. Slim, three motions of the same nature. Our application is to read one motion and make others read it. All three motions in Article 25 are the same. Then we'll have them read yours, read the names of the others.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0040par0031	We're not talking about 25, we're talking about 24.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0036par0032	Yeah. Twenty-four, twenty-five. All three motions in 24 are the same, and all three motions in 25 are the same. Now I've had one read, and I'll have others read, and I'll have yours read, and I'll have the others read. Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan İdris Baluken Secret S. Leader Hasip Kaplan Ertugrul Fursman Fair Wolf Levent Tüzel Emine Mirror Aysel Tuğluk Halil Aksoy Does Mr. Commission agree with the motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Your Majesty?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0041par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0036par0048	Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0042par0050	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 24th Amendment. I salute your honorable committee. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I know that in this proposal, hands that do not rise to the head coverings, to the science class, to Sheikh Edebali and Alparslan Turkesh University will be placed on this tablet tender. We have no doubt about it, and I claim that the Justice and Development Party will give up all the articles of this law offer, but will never give up the 24th and 25th Amendment. Because that's what the invisible conglomerate wants, because there's money in these two articles, there's rant, there's a money-grubbing ambition for power in these two articles. First, they came up with a project that they call the FATHIH. In order to exploit the concept of the conqueror, they also invented a false opening: the Movement for Increased Opportunities in Education and Recovery of Technology, the memories of the conquerors are being hurt. With Project FATHIH, they first create billions of dollars of artificial need, then smuggle stuff out of the Public Contraction Act as if it were smuggling from the fire to provide these needs under their control. The 24th article states that purchases such as technology equipment, tablet computer purchases will not be subject to the Public Contraction Law until the end of 2015, and make exceptions from the Public Contraction Law. What is it? They're supposed to be doing this with regulations. The FATIH Project is a computer-based project. It will cause the student to move away from the pen paper, become dependent on technology; moreover, it will damage the student's ability to think abstractly at a young age, at a young age, at a time when he is not yet developed. Education should be supported by technology, dear friends, but not based on technology. I would like to warn the government, citizens and student parents that this law has four major problems. Problem number one: regarding this educational structure, there is no government preparation, planning, account book related to these systems and regulations. What's the only one? The Prime Minister is anxious and anxious to carry out what he said on February 28th. When we consider the entire law, we're talking about an estimated 80-90 billion balance sheet, a cost, a market. Is there a source that this law requires? No. Financing? No. It costs a lot of money. Under this law, it's empty, it's troubled inside. At the age of five, six years old, about 1 million, 300,000 of our children's additional teaching needs will cost around $5,6 billion. In order to meet the need for teachers and investments, an estimated 20 billion is also needed. The National Ministry of Education's 2012 budget is $38 billion, so at least 55 per cent of the budget must be divided into this law. For 12 years of mandatory education, it is also estimated that the cost of 24-person classes will also be 36 billion to improve quality in the system. Other than that, the cost of transportation costs will increase due to transport training, and new housing needs will be revealed, which we can't predict. No human beings, no training, no training, no management. The proposal is already against the Constitution and the Civil Code. This offer is not in the government programme, except for the FATHIH Project. This offer is not in the National Education Strategic Plan, it's not in performance programmes, it's not in financial planning, there's no regulatory analysis. Another important thing, dear friends, is how much it costs parents... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope to make this subject clear in my speech in Article 25. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0043par0063	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. Erdal Aksunger, İzmir MP, asking for a word on the motions.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0044par0066	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the 24th Amendment of Law Proposal No. 199. I salute you all. Now, I've heard Mr. Secretary's speeches from the outside yesterday and the day before, and I'm going to talk about the tablet. Anyone who brings up a topic called production in Turkey is lying to this country. What kind of lie is he lying about? We've come out here and told you many times that this country doesn't have infrastructure. There's no infrastructure, why do you want to bring a tablet? On the subject of children, they say: "Sir, we will wire the Internet, and the children will not be harmed. Are you going to make the tablet cable? This one's wireless. What kind of contradiction is that, then? So, you're going to take this tablet, where are you going to get the pieces? Turkey will make 55 per cent local. Where are you going to do 55 percent local? You're building an LCD? You're bringing in a processor or an android processor? Yeah, you can tell it to the people who don't know. So, you're gonna take this tablet once and use it for 15 years? No - each purchase is worth $3 billion, so let them say something different -- at least four or five times at a minimum. You can't make a native in ten years, and you don't have that infrastructure, and you didn't prepare for it because you left TUBITAK here as a butcher. They say you're going to invest about $15 billion in here. And you will... and I don't care about the Public Contraction Agency, take it as far as you want, it doesn't matter! The country doesn't know what level you're talking about. By the way, I'll tell you where you've brought up this Turkish Telekom. You've given this Turkish Telekombook for 25 years; you've paid $6.5 billion; $1.3 billion in advance, and the rest with five installments. The guy only took ten billion dollars in five or six years. Now, he was going to invest $11 billion, and you kept quiet, and he's not investing a dime. Behind this FATIH Project, called the Tablet, is 20 billion dollars that you will pursue the Turkish Telekom. What do you think? They're gonna take it out of the parents' pockets. How are they gonna move the classrooms? If you take this Vitamin from this Turk Telekom, and force the guardians to do so, you will really have two hands on the other side of those orphans. You're going to bring around $20 a month to every parent, and for 15 years, you're going to take that money from all of them over the Turkish Telecom, which you don't keep open to competition. By the way, I'd like to say another thing: who is 70 percent partner in a company that will build infrastructure with Turkish Telecom, brother? Which minister's brother-in-law? Will you or won't you? I'm telling you, if you give it to me today, I'm telling you, look, you've taken it into the Public Contraction Agency, you've got it out of your system, and it doesn't matter. It's obvious how it's done anyway. By the way, what content of the content will the Ministry of National Education receive for free? Tell them to come out and explain that. Why is he giving it away for free? Why is he giving it away for free? What programs are you going to get subscribed to on the Internet? Guys, look, this is about the country. It's not a question of someone taking a product or not taking it. You're trying to allocate Turkey's future -- we've come up here and told you about things you didn't do. Is that a thing? Can you use a tablet for more than three years? Who's using the computer that he picked up? What product are they going to produce? Where does Arcelik, Vestel, do such a thing? We've been distributors of a lot of things in Turkey for 20 years, and I've never seen anything like it. China has $2 trillion in exports, 40 per cent of which are from electronic products. He's exporting $600 billion, and he's not doing anything in the world that's out of interest to another person. Technology may be in other people, but without thinking about it, you're saying we're going to build technology here. You don't have software, you don't have infrastructure, you've got FATIH Project. Of course, people are looking for something behind it, and I'm looking for something behind it. You've brought the matter of the smart board. What have you discovered about this smart board? Haven't you ever seen what a smart board is? There's a blackboard on one side, a touch screen on the other. What else? He'll touch it, he'll do it in context. And they put together a broom, and with a broom, whoever cleans the dust, they call it the smart board. Yeah, that's not gonna happen, guys. They're bidding for 800 million TL in the first pilot app -- the minister is telling the truth -- Vestel got the contract for 300 million TL. In fact, if it were within the Public Contraction Agency, it would be cancelled. Who did this for $800 million? Who raised the Muhammad's price and bought it for 339 million TL? Later, a sticker brought one from there, and someone made an offer, and one of the country's big firms offered me one. This pilot app... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Friends, come, turn this wrong. This isn't the right project, the FATIH Project isn't the right project, but look at this, they'll ask later. It's a matter of Supreme Court, and I'll tell you, it's a matter of eating the land. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0045par0085	Thank you, Mr. Aksinger. The other spokesman on the motion is Özdal Threeer, Van MP.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0046par0087	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to our amendment motion. My regards to the General Assembly. The areas where the ten-year EC PARTY government has worked most seriously in parliament are actually issues related to the Public Contraction Act. In this ten-year period, the government's spokesman must inform the public. How many times has it happened? How many times have there been amendments, amendments to public tender laws? As far as regulations are concerned, whatever sector it is related to, in fact, the public's financial value is coming upon a finely adjusted text of law based on the calculations of the ability to somehow pursue its political supporters. When we say 4+4+4 education systems, if this logic, this understanding, is based on this monotheistic mentality, then education in this country will continue as it did today, from the beginning of the republic to the present day. Assimilationist mentality is not abandoned, as long as the conditions of democratic education are not provided, without the environment of education in the main language, without a student-based education system, without the working conditions of education workers, without resolving the infrastructure problems of schools, there will be nothing left of this project, not 3 times 4 times, but 40 times 4. The day when you can't buy chalk in schools... the Van MP, who served as vice president today, made your brother manager of the Volkswagen dealership. Teachers raised money among them, collected money from students, and bought chalk for schools. They were forced by their own car dealerships to let the Directors of National Education take office cars. That's what the FATIH Project is all about. As the immortal poet Ahmet Arif says, we have a foot in the age of space, even if it's raw shoes, hair socks. Now, the way technology is introduced to society is once very wrong. It's as if technology will be applied in all schools when the tablet is distributed; it's as if there's no education in combined classes; as if in Turkey, teachers don't pay for school solidarity, students don't hire cleaners so that they don't lose their health; as if they're forced to collect money from school families in the form of dues, and schools have radiators that aren't kept in schools, as if they're not burning radiators in schools, and they're investing billions of dollars in a technological area with the FATIH Project, which doesn't have any infrastructure. These deposits, of course, were no one's father's property, but from now on, they're in a position to serve someone's father. In fact, no matter what we say, you're going to use your numerical majority to project them and use them somehow. One of the fastest growing things in Turkey is that when you look at dollar billionaires and dollar billionaires a day earlier, they're just people who have nothing, who only capitalize on being political supporters. Therefore, if education is to be discussed in Turkey, constitutional regulations must be made, an economic infrastructure for education in a way that may be democratic and opportunity egalitarian, and all schools will be able to serve all the students, and it will be a place of conscience in society to try to make such arrangements, when education workers are not at the market, they are not at work, they are not at the market, and hundreds of thousands of education workers are not expecting to appoint. There has to be a very radical change in the history of the republic concerning education in the native language. To accept education in the native language, you have to accept the existence of people once, and to accept this existence, it seems as though only Kurds come to mind, but if they are Kurds, then it should be said not as the basic rule of democracy, but as the largest ethnic structure in Turkey that can't study in its native language today. If the Kurds are Kurds, as the Kurdish poet said............ [[x]] My respects.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0047par0096	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to submit and propose the addition of the terms of the Treaty of the 199 Orders of the Law to be included in Article 24/3 and Article 4734, which will be included in the interim 13th Article, after the declaration of the Law. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We're giving it proper consideration, sir. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0048par0104	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0047par0105	Nurettin Canikli, Commissioner of Giresun, who wants a word on the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, this was discussed here yesterday, and during those discussions, a criticism came from Mr. Akif Hamzacebi that there was no regulation in the proposal, as one of the criticisms or criticisms. In order to ensure that, in the law... in fact, there will be regulations, and there will be a detailed contract method, which will be specified in the regulations. Again, we've submitted this motion, which is open to competition and will be indisputable to all purchases from participating firms, but in the law, with the thought and criticism of a legal guarantee, and the criticism and criticism that Mr. Hamzacebi said yesterday, and we're adding a statement to the law proposal: to be clear, to be competitive, to be competitive, so we'll have fulfilled the criticism and demand that Mr. Hamzacebi said yesterday. Dear friends, look, I told you yesterday, he shouldn't be kidnapped, so let's take these two articles, the 24th and 25th article out of this offer, and according to the general provisions of the FATlH Project, according to general rules, if it is run, foreign companies will get all the tenders, most of them will probably get the majority of them, the Chinese and the Chinese, but among them, there will definitely not be any domestic production, absolutely no Turkish firm. So my friends who criticize this, do they want this, or do they want this, or do our friends want it to go on like this? [[Noises in MHP rows]] (x) Words were expressed in non-English by the Hajip in this chapter.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0050par0112	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0113	Yeah, that's right, that's right. Look, guys...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0051par0115	You import the cow, you bring Angus.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0052par0116	Do you hear what you're saying?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0117	Look, guys, according to the contract laws...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0053par0119	You made me work here for three weeks...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0120	...in accordance with the contract laws, the tender is now under way.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0053par0121	You spent three weeks giving the Israelis the mine contract.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0122	Allow me. Make a tender. What's the contract based on?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0054par0125	Please don't.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0126	Isn't the tender open to everyone, open to all international companies? It's being done.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0054par0127	Aren't you the one who said that the company has no religious faith?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0128	You know that.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0055par0129	If you want a native, why did you lock up the coven for a month to give it to the Israelis?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0049par0130	So, who's gonna take it under the circumstances? Are these products produced in Turkey, friends? Is it made? Can you give me one? Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0056par0131	You're the smart one, nobody knows anything! The people here are all idiots.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0057par0132	It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0058par0133	Congressmans, please... listen to the clerk.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0134	Whether you realize it or not.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0057par0135	It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0136	Whether you're aware or not, you're defending the interests of Chinese companies. I'm sorry. (MHP rows) I'm sorry, that's what happened.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0060par0137	Mr. President, that's not how it works.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0138	Look, guys, what are we trying to do? We're trying to transfer technology this way.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0061par0139	Don't you buy body armor from India?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0140	Today, there is a similar situation in the defense industry.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0062par0141	What is this? In a competitive way... What is it?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0142	There's an exception in the defense industry again.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0062par0143	No, let's let the Chinese in as well as the competition.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0144	The tender for defense industry products is not made according to the Public Contraction Act...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0062par0145	You're misinformation the public, you're wrong!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0146	...there's an exception there, and look at the result...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0063par0147	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0062par0148	The motion says that the competition is open, and the Chinese enter, and the Japanese enter. He says otherwise, he doesn't say that.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0149	...if there's ASELSAN today, if there's ASELSAN and Turkish defence products, defense products produced in Turkey, can be exported with serious technology...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0063par0150	But he'll hear you, he'll hear you. Are we stupid? Are we stupid?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0151	...$1.5 billion can be exported today, and that's why, then, it's the policies that will allow this technology to be transferred to Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0063par0152	He'll hear! What kind of talk is that?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0064par0153	He says it's open to competition.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0154	We're following the same logic here, questioning the same system. Look, can you condition technology transfer to Turkey with the current tender method?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0064par0155	Turn it off, turn it off! Why don't you just shut down the PR? Turn them off. There's nothing left.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0156	You can't. Please, you can't change that by talking in vain. Can you put in a domestic production condition? I'm asking: When you do this under the current public tender legislation, can you put a domestic production requirement on the condition?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0064par0157	What's left? Is there a public auction agency left?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0158	You can't.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0065par0159	Fix the situation.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0160	You can't have friends, we're doing it to make sure they're set up. We're doing all this in order to bring in the terms of the transfer of technology.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0065par0161	You're doing it to be completely supportive.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0162	So, please, you need to know what you criticize when you criticize. Look, we'll see in the coming days, there'll be tenders, everything will be clear.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0065par0164	Everything is clear, my dear. Isn't it obvious what you did yesterday? Isn't your tyranny clear?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0066par0165	Mr. Secretary, I had nothing to do with it, the State Supplies Office did it.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0166	There's no hiding anything. Who gets the contracts, how the investment's going to be done, how much money is going to be paid, it's not all going to be open, secret. Then you'll tell me.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0067par0167	What clause does the Public Contraction Act prevent you from doing so?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0168	If anything happens, you can talk about it. Right now, it can't really be as great a injustice as charging you with a false way of reading minds in a completely fictional way, in a way that doesn't reflect the truth, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0068par0169	We don't read minds, there are examples, samples...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0069par0170	You don't know how to read that stuff, we know what it means. We saw what was behind it.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0171	What's going on right now? Based on what you're saying, sir, your associate will take it, this person will take it, this person will take it? Do you have the slightest evidence, the slightest sign of the carbine? No.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0069par0172	You're just getting started. Matters are evidence, those materials are evidence, you're missing out on a public contract, you're missing out on the law. He's evidence.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0173	You're full of misdeeds. I'm telling you, no Turkish firm, a local manufacturer, has a chance to buy here, according to the current tender legislation.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0070par0174	Tell me which Turkish company will produce them!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0175	Because none of these products are being produced in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0070par0176	Don't do this!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0059par0177	Dear friends, I asked you yesterday if someone was trying to be a lawyer for those foreign firms. Please, I mean... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But it needs to be explained, dear friends, why they're talking. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0071par0181	Give it to Israel, to Israel.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0072par0182	Then why did you keep us here for three weeks? At that time, Israel was good at giving! You were giving Israel what the Turkish Armed Forces had cleaned up, and you had us all sit here for three weeks. It wasn't national at the time.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0073par0183	Mr. President, I want to make one thing clear. What I'm talking about...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0074par0184	What do you want to be clear about?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0073par0185	It's not about the transfer of technology, so the domestic production in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0074par0186	No, you already talked about the motion.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0073par0187	It's important, but I mean...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0074par0188	You don't have the right to say something like that.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0073par0189	Look, sir, I'd like to have a say in the matter of Article 69, because from what I'm saying, I've been talking about in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0075par0190	Is that possible, sir? At the press conference...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0073par0191	The tender is one thing, the transfer of technology is another.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0192	No, Mr. Aksinger would like to...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0073par0193	Sir, I'll tell you in two minutes. I'll tell you what's wrong, sir, what's wrong.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0194	No, what do you want the word for? You have to say that...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0077par0195	This isn't an open session.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0196	I mean, there's no such procedure, Mr. Aksinger. If you're being bullied, then I can promise you. Other than that, I can't promise you anything else.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0078par0197	Mr. President, we don't mean to make a tender on Chinese goods. Bringing him from place to place...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0077par0198	Okay? This isn't an open session.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0199	Mr. Elitaş, would you please take your seat? I mean, I don't have to ask you, I'm explaining. Please...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0079par0200	Why don't you just go ahead and decide that the group is acting as vice presidents?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0201	Mr. Aksinger, you've come out about the motion, you've made your point.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0080par0202	Yeah, but we have to...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0203	Hold on a second... regarding the same clause as you, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group of the AK PARTY has also expressed his views on the motion given by the Deputy Group.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0080par0204	Sir, our conversations...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0205	You can't make promises to make this clear. You don't have that right under the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0080par0206	No, sir, I don't want that. Mr. President, I don't want that. He says we're talking about Chinese goods or a twist at the point where those goods are being delivered to Turkey, so I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0207	There's no such procedure. I mean, thank you. No, please... Yes, I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0081par0209	Why is Mr. Canikli raising his hand? He was just saying no competition. He's now raising his hand to a competitive motion.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0082par0210	Mr. President, but if Mr. Canicli...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0211	Sir?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0082par0212	Sir, I didn't listen to the speech, and as a statement from my friends, I'm saying that if Mr. Canicli opposed this motion, against this clause, against this clause, against Chinese goods, protecting foreign goods, then he's insinuating us, that's an accusation.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0213	No, he didn't say it out loud. No... I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0083par0215	He did, Mr. President, he did. But who did he say it to, President? I mean, he can't hear himself.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0076par0216	You didn't ask for that either. Why are you angry, Mr. Light? So you've got the Deputy Director of the Group standing up, and we're talking to the Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0083par0217	Mr. Group didn't hear what the Vice President said.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0084par0218	I mean, if...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0083par0219	He needs to take that back.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0085par0220	But that wasn't a request. Mr. Shandir is speaking, why are you getting angry?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0086par0221	We told him, when my Group Vice President arrived.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0087par0222	So you listened, and that's what my friends say. If, Your Honor...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0085par0223	Your Honor, there was no such request until you stood up. I got the motion to vote, but when you're talking, it's not like the MPs next to you need to be angry.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0088par0224	What's the difference, Mr. President? The lawmakers are telling me. There's a demand here for my friend.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0089par0225	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0085par0226	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0089par0227	The AK PARTY Deputy Director of the Group is our motion to...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0085par0228	Can you raise your voice? I can't hear you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0089par0229	I'm loud, so...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0085par0230	No, you're too much. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0089par0232	...in a way that's a little out of context when you're talking about...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0090par0233	Is that all right, Mr. President? He gave a very calm and technical speech, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0089par0234	...the three opposition parties were wrongly informed that they were right to the public... Here, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0091par0236	Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. I'll give you two minutes for bullying. Before we get into any more bullying...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0092par0239	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0091par0240	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0092par0243	Now, my dear friends, you've acquired a habit: do, do, do, do, in health care, in public private partnerships until 2023, guaranteed by the state, guaranteed by the government, with a fund of over 100 billion. Now, you're trying to do the same thing here as the FATIH Project? Why are you running away from the tender, avoiding the opening, avoiding the inspection? Won't the assembly study on our behalf in the Court? We want to try to oversee military spending. We want to deal with the transparency of their income costs. And you, where were the tablets to be given to our children, how much were they paid, how much were they paid, how much were they paid? So what's your fear, why are you hiding, why are you running away from public opinion, what's your fear? You don't do it with a regular bidding law, you smuggle stuff out of a fire? So there's an injury here, there's a mental state here, there's an approach injury. Not just this one, look, look, watch out, you're doing this in the do-and-do. And there's a $500 billion runt in buildings that are going down because of the threat of disaster, so right now, 700 billion in one week... Look, you want to take a cake that's close to $1 trillion from the control of the House. You start with the children's tablets, you start with the health care, you start with the hospitals, you start with the school, you go through the hospital, you destroy the most historic places in Istanbul, and you control them yourself. No, then let's close this House and go home. Then why is this House working? If the opposition won't check it out, if you're going to do it, it's not every day you want it to be. That's our problem. When we tell you this, don't accuse us of injustice. We know how much, how much, how much Chinese tablets come in...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0093par0246	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0094par0247	Mr. President, about the same thing.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0093par0248	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0094par0250	Mr. President, thank you. It's really the ruling group, Mr. Secretary, the government, which I think is under serious indictment for. Sir, this accusation is being made, this hoarding. It's said...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0095par0252	You can have it, we don't.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0094par0253	Look, sir, this Parliament has issued the State Contraction Act, the Public Contraction Act, and it has been considered a crucial step in the anti-corruption programme of this state because Turkey's very fundamental problem is fighting corruption. In order to fight corruption, an autonomous, independent state tender was established and a law was passed. Now, every time, but every time, just last week, you've established a law for an application outside the State Contraction Act. Dear lawmakers, if Turkey is a state of law, it is important to implement one law. You practice so many laws. You run this state, the Public Contraction Agency is at your disposal. You enforce that law. Why are you looking for exceptions? Then you're under an accusation, a hoard. So there's something that's being smuggled out of the law, and it's being created. It's called special initiative. He's on the sidelines of this, he's on the sidelines, he's on the road to corruption. Why do you need that? If he had any claim to accuse opposition parties as representatives of foreign firms like this, I would find it inappropriate and return it to them.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0096par0255	No, I didn't. I raised that question, I didn't blame anyone, it doesn't exist.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0094par0256	The National Movement Party is here for him, tasked with protecting the interests of the Turkish nation; it does not speak on behalf of any agency, representative of any country or its accounts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, we would like to renegotiate this matter. I mean, there's no point in mixing toilets, my dear friends.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0097par0259	Thank you, Mr. Shandir.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0260	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0097par0261	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0262	Mr. Canikli says the same thing in his speech: if this law goes like this, if there's no change, sir, local companies won't be able to enter, Chinese firms will.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0099par0263	There's no domestic production.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0264	He says: 'Are you reading our intentions?' No, we are not reading your intentions. I'm here to see if you...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0100par0265	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0266	Just a second, Mr. President, let me say a sentence.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0100par0267	But we don't have that kind of procedure, Mr. Günal. About the bullying, Mr. Group Vice President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0268	He's picking on us, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0100par0269	No... please, you have no right to explain, no demand.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0270	Look, for example, I'm giving you an example, let me... For three weeks, you had the AKP Group and the Assembly in order to give it to an Israeli firm in the mine bill. Were the Israelis local?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0101par0272	Let go of me, you're dreaming!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0273	Here's the sample. You didn't hire him so the Turkish Armed Forces wouldn't do it?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0101par0274	Your recommendation was in that law.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0102par0275	Thank you, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0098par0276	Here's the sample... And now you say: "The Indians will not enter, but the foreigners will. " They are the examples.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0102par0278	Mr. Günal, your word has been made, thank you. [[Continue]] In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the item is accepted. There are three motions on the 25th article, but the motions are the same, so I'll have them studied and processed together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Chairman's Council of Justice and Education Act on Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of State of Justice and Development; Ministership of Justice and Development; Ministership of Justice and Development; Ministership of Justice and Development; Ministership of the Council of the Constitution; Ministership of the Constitution and the Council of the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers; Ministers of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council; Minister of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of Justice and the Council of the Council of State of We offer and propose that the clause be removed from the bidding text. Aykut Erdoğdu Dr. Aytun Çıray Hasan Ören Recep Gürkan Kamer Young Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Oktay Vural Mehmet Şandir Özcan Yençeri Ahmet Duran Bulut Erkan Akçay Alim Light Pervin Buldan İstiye Birtane Nursel Aydoğan İdris Baluken Secret S. Leading Levent Corporate Hasip Kaplan Ertugrul Furder Fair Wolf Emine Mirror Aysel Tuğluk Halil Aksoy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0103par0313	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0102par0314	Recep Gürkan, Edirne MP.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0104par0316	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we've been watching a comedy of surprise for about a month, almost a month. Why is it a comedy of surprise? On February 20th, the proposal offered by AKP members of the group, which we are meeting today to discuss the 25th article, has changed not 180 per cent, but to the extent that all geometric accounts will be surprised. In fact, there have been such changes, maneuvers, that even Mr. Minister of National Education has had difficulty defending some of the clauses of this proposal, and has often conflicted with both the subcommittee and the commission. First, you decided to make little girls and children brides, you decided to send men to garages, and then you realized there was a lot of reaction, you gave up. And then you came to the age, and you said, "Was it six or fourteen, or five or thirteen?" And you came back, and you decided on five or ten. Of course, there's nothing pedagogic about it.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0105par0318	You know it's six or thirteen.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0104par0319	Mr. Five Light, you know that. So you've got the statistics of the TÜİK. Come on, I've got them in front of me. You've made your decision in five-tenths. Why five-ten-three? Because when you're nine years old, you've got kids finishing first base, and then you've got projects that are still unaccounted for, still unsaid, covered. The uninterrupted basic education, the uninterrupted basic education of the Republican People's Party from long ago, these children are locked in the same building between the ages of six and fourteen, so they're experiencing psychosocial trauma. You said that, but you had the courage to put the 19-year-old boy and the 17-year-old boy at the height of his puberty into the same building. Know that you will be responsible for all the negativity, all the traumas, all the abuses that will occur in the buildings between these secondary schools and high schools. This is something you'll never be able to account for in front of history. You object to the number of floors, first brought it to 6%, Mr. Canikli, who dropped the subcommittee from behind down to four, and yesterday you saw that we're making a mistake, we're making a mistake, we're doing it all wrong, you said, let's get it all up. You know what's gonna happen when this law comes out? Poor kids won't be able to read. But this comedy of surprise isn't just in this law of education, you've been doing this all along, you've been dissimilarizing society as what's been ours all along, what's not. You're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out. You said you were a writer, you stole a finger of honey in the mouth of the nation, it was a failure. You're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out. And now you're doing the so-called adjective, which is going to be a failure, because the fake honeys you put in that nation's mouth are all fake, all rotten. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Republican People's Party has never opposed religion at any time in history; on the contrary, religion's protector has become the insurance of religion, but the Republican People's Party has been in front of religious sects, religious traders, religious traders, and so on. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Whatever law you take out, whatever law you take out, whatever law you write, the teachers of the republic, the secular teachers of the republic, the intellectuals of the republic, the Ataturkist teachers will continue to grow the Reach Glassmen, the Sea Gezmis, Turan Dursuns, the Hard Workers, the Utter Mums.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0106par0332	Thank you, Mr. Gürkan. Now, Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa, who wants a word on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0107par0336	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our motion on the 25th Amendment. Just a moment ago, Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Canicli, gave a speech and twisted the essence of the matter. Now, we're going to sit crooked, and we're going to talk straight, dear friends. Today, if we do an accounting of who was brought into the country in time to become foreign goods and foreign companies, the hours would not be enough; the Mediterranean, Black Sea, ink would not suffice. Now, you have to be domestic and national when you're holding public tenders, when you're doing privatisations and when you're doing other arrangements. What's your policy on domestic production? The Justice and Development Party does not have the slightest regulation for promoting domestic production, especially as part of this FATHIH Project, to oversee domestic production. And I'm also claiming, lawmakers, that you're going to have to tie yourself up at some point in the regulation that you're going to do, to be open to the 24th Amendment, because this time you're going to have to make arrangements to support domestic production.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0108par0340	There will be competition among the natives.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0107par0341	It's a reminder, it's expendable, so I'm speaking in terms of an argument. Dear lawmakers, what is your program for domestic production, this FATHIH Project? Nothing. But I'd like to bring something up in the High Council. I have a suspicion, I have a concern. This FATHIH Project met with Prime Minister Bill Gates at the same time it came to the agenda. The Prime Minister doesn't just talk to the CIA presidents. But we, as a nation, are not aware of these negotiations. Please, Mr. Prime Minister or a spokesman will inform the High Council and the public what's being discussed with Bill Gates.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0109par0343	Let him explain Murdoch!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0107par0344	Dear lawmakers, I'm continuing with this 25th, 24th article, and I told you that there's no accounting or planning for the cost of this educational system. My friends reminded me of the account, no books. There's no plan. Now, secondly, dear friends, this FATHIH Project will bring additional financial burdens to students' parents, technology, hardware, software, tablets, computers, e-books, etc. Our whole nation and millions of poor families need to know that. Millions of poor families are already undermining a lot of education costs for their children's education. The tablet computer worked, the spare part didn't work, it was protected, it wasn't protected, it was lost, it was broken, it was broken, the money of all of this will eventually go to parents, parents. So I remind all citizens, parents and the government of this issue, and I want to remind you, after reminding you again that the FATIH Project has nothing to encourage domestic production, and that foreign companies and importers will be pleased, dear friends: Today, computers, Internet, television, mobile phone, tablets, such tools are at the top of problems that upset individual and social psychology. Here, the children suffer the greatest damage. If brain functions and organs are introduced to computers, young children who have not developed organs will soon become addicted. Children's relationships with their families, social environments, and nutritional balances are failing. Children are separated from social life and run to physicians because of psychiatric problems. Have you calculated the physical and medical dangers that children between the ages of five and ten will face if they spend seven or eight hours a day behind a computer -- reading their books and classes, working with computers, playing their games with computers? How will radiation affect the children? Have you considered the physical damage to the sinuses, the brain, the eye? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Did you get the experts' opinion?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0110par0349	Thank you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0107par0350	Mr. President, we invite the AKP to give up its ambitions. Don't kill our children, don't destroy a generation while trying to make their followers rich.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0110par0352	Mr. Akçay, please... This is İdris Baluken, Bingol MP, who wants a word on the motions.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0111par0355	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to our group's motion. I salute your delegation. Before I speak, 40 years ago, I honor Mahir Teaan and his comrades, who put their lives on the line for a democratic country and a free future. I'd like to point out from here that their righteous struggle will surely triumph. Of course, I don't think we've really been able to put too much emphasis on what we've been discussing here. In all areas that affect education, health, culture, art, sports, general social and social life, operating processes related to the transfer of power to the locals and the relocation of governance is an important factor that has improved democracy in all these areas, while we are trying to get the solution out of here, from Ankara, in some way, from some sort of cumbersome bureaucratic structure. Of course, when we can't get the basic analysis of the system right, we can't get the solution right. Now, look, when we don't act with a sense of decentralisation, where it's based on management, where it sort of solves the problem, we come here on the floor of the House and we give cool talks about Project FATIH. While we were doing these cool talks, for example, in my constituency, we were able to strengthen 31 schools from 49 schools that needed to be strengthened after the earthquake, so in 18 schools, we defended the continuity of a educational system that would endanger the lives of thousands of students. At the age of 24 in Europe, we somehow experienced the persecution of teaching our children in classrooms with 55 to 60 people in our country. Of course, there should also be a general understanding of the AKP's understanding of governance from its place. We've brought to this council bench the process of shutting down the educational support homes that our local governments have done in terms of social municipalism. Mr. Secretary is here, so I'd like to ask him to explain the closures on these educational support homes either from the stand or from where he is. Our municipalities provide services as a means of social municipal support for poor children under the circumstances that their family does not have enough money to go to the school, which are not in good financial condition at home, but a state understanding of the European Local Governments undersigning the administration in accordance with the concept of social municipalism is blocking their homes. I've been to the Ministry many times, and we wanted to know why it was shut down there. We also talked about the existence of numerous AKP people, CHP people, and DP municipalities who provide this service. But so far, no response has been delivered to our side, which has satisfied us or removed the victims of the children there. We need to be clear about education: giving free, qualified, available education is a public service that the government must provide. Here, the state has some obligations, such as paying taxes, for example, military service, and, for example, the state's obligations to the state, such as voting in elections, to provide free education, free health. So, in this law, we think that this understanding that leads to commercialization of education, that brings education to the market -- that's what we're constantly talking about in our debates -- that somehow makes education into a meta, has to be questioned. Of course, in our talks over the past two days, we insist on teaching in the mother tongue, we're talking about many rituals, examples, but there's a general insensitivity to the House. I'm afraid we never got over it. I thank you all again by reminding you that education in this native language is a sacred step towards saving the lives of many young people who have to die during the possible conflict in the coming months.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0112par0362	Thank you. Mr. Canikli, you have a request.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0113par0366	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent talks, there was a claim that our Prime Minister was talking to Bill Gates about the FATIH Project, or rather a slander. The FATIH Project was not even on the agenda when our Prime Minister, Bill Gates, met. He met with our Prime Minister Bill Gates for the I.T. Valley to be held in Istanbul, and that is the content of the meeting. Bill Gates was already part of a anti-smoking campaign in Turkey. Hence, our friend, who raised this claim for such slander, should apologize. Because our Prime Minister has no contact with Bill Gates, with the FATIH Project, and there is no way that such a matter has ever been brought up in this meeting. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0114par0369	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0115par0370	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0114par0371	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has asked me to speak to...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0115par0372	Sit down, I'll ask you what you want to say at your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0114par0375	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group referred to my speech as -- I brought up the speech of Mr. Prime Minister Bill Gates. And I wanted to make it clear -- as a statement in his speech. For one thing, I asked Mr. Bill Gates to speak to Mr. Prime Minister for a fact, to explain the nature of it, and I expressed my concern...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0116par0377	You said the FATIH Project was being discussed.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0114par0378	I said this could also be about the FATIH Project. And I haven't made a 100% definite accusation like that, but we're concerned about all your arrangements, and we doubt because your ten-year record is broken. That's what I'm saying. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0116par0380	Once again, Mr. President, it's become clear that all of this is a means to an end, not a reflection of the truth.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0117par0381	Thank you, Mr. Canicli. [[Continue]] Yes, I submit the motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have not been accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion for a new interim clause, so I'll have it read and processed.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0118par0390	Mr. President, the majority of the Commission...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0117par0391	I'm also going to ask the Commission whether he's in or out of the motion for most of the time. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following interim clause be added to the current Law Proposal of 199 rows. With all due respect. Article 2 of the Interim Article 21/12/2011 and Article 22 of the 2012 Central Management Budget Law No. 6260. The joke included an additional 50,000 to be appointed teachers for the National Ministry of Education staffs, following the additional 5,000 declarations for higher education institutions. Muharrem Muharrem Varlı Bahattin Sugar Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu Mehmet Günal Zuhal Topcu Mehmet Şandir Ismet Büğataman Sumer Oral Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion, mostly? We don't participate because we don't have a majority, Mr. President. Thank you. Since there's no majority, I'll withdraw the motion from the process. There's a motion on Article 26 that I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Chairman's Council of Justice and Education Act on Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers for Higher Education; Minister of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of the Council; Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of State of State of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of State of Ministers and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of Justice and the Council of State of State of State of State of State of Ministers; Me We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu İzzet Cetin Güçüklar Omer Suha Aldan Vahab chooses Aykut Erdoğdu MADDE 26. - This law is in effect on 1,1,2020. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0119par0417	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0117par0418	Aykut Erdoğdu has asked for a statement on the proposal, İstanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0120par0421	Mr. President, dear members, we've been discussing the terms of this National Education Act concerning the tender since yesterday, and we've been trying to explain our problem since yesterday. I'm no longer speaking to the ruling party's MPs; I want to talk to the Turkish people who are watching this television, whether small or small, and I want to talk to the people who will pay for it, and I'm summing it up to them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We say this is a law that leads to corruption. In short, the government says that we want to bring technology to this country, we want to distribute tablet computers to children, we want to put smart boards in schools, and we want to get it done to Turkish companies, and that opposition prevents us from doing it because we can't do it with the current law. My people, this is a great lie, a great lie. The reason is that this government has imported $1.2 trillion from the moment it comes to power, and this state does not only make tenders based on imports through the Ministry of National Education. If this job is so bad, why are you bidding billions of dollars for China Major Company on State Railways, Hyundai Rotem Company, a lot of U.S. Department of Defense? That's the first thing. Second thing: no matter what they say, they'll do it with imports. Mr. Group Vice President says: "Should Chinese firms take this?" (Chinese firms will do it again in the current technological situation.) But these Chinese companies are going to sell it through a set of designated companies, which has been identified. They'll do it through the firms where the orphan's rights will go. The orphan will pay the same. He'll pay some to the Chinese, some to these companies. Do you know what your tablet dream is? For years, they built cars in this country, wrote on the back of it, "The Shah," and some ignorant people thought it was a local car, so that's the way your tablet would be. Now, what you're saying is that you can't buy with Law 4734. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;Sorry, dear friends. &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I'm sorry.&lt;/i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;I'm sorry.&lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt; &lt;i&gt;i&gt;I'm sorry.&gt;I'm sorry. &lt;i&gt;I'm sorry. It's an acquisition law, which is all over the world. It's just a law for honest and honest purchases. You've tried so hard, you've tried so hard, you've removed their mechanisms, but it's still, and it's still in the way of corruption. Here's a very simple example: why did you remove it? You moved him in the coal business. Why? Because there was corruption. Now you're doing it before. There was corruption at the time, you removed it, now you remove it before corruption. So don't try to deceive us, don't try to deceive these people in vain. This law is a law of corruption. What's sad is that it's in the words of the Qur'an. Well, secularism prevents that, folks. Here, what we understand is that secularism prevents the use of the Koran and corruption in the same law. I want everyone to know that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The other thing, dear friends, dear Brother Veli Ağbaba, revolutionary Veli Agha, is that you put the American flag on the mountains of Orbsik, the Veli Agha who went to bring it down, and that's where the Veli Agha was attacked. Veli Agha is such a brave man that he fights not you, but with your aghas, with America, with Israel. It is he who went from our mountains to bring down his flag, and to lift it up. There's a big heart in that body. But this America and Israel, sometimes they find local collaborators in this country. Here, local collaborators attack these patriots. We've been fighting this for 60 years, 80 years, 100 years. May our beloved sacrifice to this land, for this land. We never fought our humanity, our mastership, the people in the same land. Don't take this as cowardice. That is the truth, and that is manhood, a virtue. But think about what you've done. Remember, we have patience, and we have a limit of resistance to our inner morality. I'm asking you, we've stopped friends from doing this, together, with men of conscience. I'm going to keep getting in the way of this. But please, don't let that happen on this stand again. This is the people's stand. The attack on the public's bench is an attack on the nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0121par0435	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0436	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0121par0437	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0438	The speaker has just insulted us by claiming that we're lying.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0121par0439	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. I'll give you two minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0442	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I'm not going to use the ugly expressions that that speaker used. The evil word belongs to him. I will return them to him with a strong word, and with a strong word. But dear friends, look, really, it's so wrong, so biased, so ideologically bigotry that...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0123par0445	Mr. President, what's wrong?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0446	The coal sample was given. See, interesting, beautiful... in the example of coal, it was again removed from the scope of the contract. Now, the coal is out of bounds. Who buys the coal, dear friends? Who sells the coal to the funds? The Turkish Coal Company is selling it.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0123par0448	Don't do it! Lies! Mr. President, I apologize. Please! I wrote the report!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0449	The Turkish Coal Company is selling it.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0123par0450	Steel, Arrival Mining...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0451	If this project hadn't been implemented, then private coal companies would have sold coal companies that brought coal from South Africa.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0123par0452	No! No! Please don't... you're not telling the truth, Mr. Canicli!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0453	That's why I'm telling you, you're a lawyer for these guys? Why do you insist on being their lawyer? But you know what we did here? Look, we've activated the coal mines that have been turned off, and domestic production has become more efficient. Isn't that right? That's exactly what happened. They made it even cheaper.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0123par0455	How is it cheaper than government coal?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0456	Look, the funds bought coal cheaper. If we had done what you said, if we had done what you said, more expensive coal would have been brought from South Africa.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0124par0457	Haven't you ever read the Court report?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0458	Who was going to make that money? Whose pocket was the money in? I'm asking. He was gonna go into the South African company's pocket, and you were gonna be happy about it? You'd like that, wouldn't you? That's a shame. It's a real shame.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0124par0459	We read the Court report!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0122par0460	We're here, protecting people's resources, protecting the nation's own domestic production, and getting it to higher levels. That's what we're trying to do. Maybe some of them don't understand. That's his problem, too. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0125par0463	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0464	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0125par0465	Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0466	Mr. President, Mr. Canicli is giving the House incomplete information without knowing it. This is not from coal mines; it is from the Steel Company; it is from the Development Mining Company. It has been identified by four audit reports taken at exorbitant prices. We need to inform all of these MPs correctly, and it's completely corrupt. If our friends here don't know about this, they'll make the wrong decision. I want word on that. I'm asking you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0125par0467	Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've already said your piece.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0472	Dear friends, I'm trying to tell you a situation here. I'm telling you, the Turkish Coal Company doesn't take mines from it. I don't want to hurt Mr. Canikli. Mr. Canikli doesn't know the truth, but he's lying to her because these mines...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0127par0474	Take that back! Don't talk like that!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0475	I don't want to hurt you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0127par0476	Shame on you! You can rule it out, but...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0477	I don't want to hurt you. Sit down.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0127par0478	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0128par0479	He didn't tell you, Mr. Canikli. He didn't tell you. He told whoever told you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0480	He's not telling the truth. Mr. Canikli, you're Deputy Director of the Group. I respect your party, so I'm not saying anything. Please.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0127par0481	That's not true! Criticizing, but what a thing to say!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0482	Mr. President, could you add it to my drive?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0129par0483	Here you go, Mr. Erdoğdu.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0484	Dear friends, some of these coal mines are leased without contract to Steels and Development Mining.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0130par0485	Shame on you! That's not true!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0131par0486	He didn't say anything to you. They are deceiving Mr. Canikli, he said.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0487	They sell coal to the government, they buy it, they put it in their pocket, and it's in the Court report, where it's sold at exorbitant prices. I'll send these Court reports to all my friends who want them, but we have no right here to show that there are no corruption by altering the facts.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0130par0488	Where? Give me a concrete example.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0490	I'll get the Court report. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask you this. This is an extremely important issue. Mr. Canicli says he's not, and I say he is. I'm a deputy, and I'm putting everything on the line. If what I'm saying is a lie, if it's not taken from these firms, if it's not a court report, I will resign, I promise you, in the presence of all the people, and I will not pass by the door of the House.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0132par0493	Are you going to resign, Mr. Canikli?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0126par0494	But if what I say is true, I beg of you, for the sake of the fight against corruption, I beg of you, for the sake of the orphan, that Mr. Canikli come to this stand, and say sorry to Aykut Erdoğdu. It's the least we can do. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0133par0497	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0134par0499	Mr. President, again, Mr. Speaker has insulted me.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0133par0501	Sir... please count...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0134par0502	Mr. Speaker just insulted me, sir. He insulted me by claiming I was lying, Mr. President. I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0133par0503	Here you go, Mr. Canikli. I don't know how long it'll last.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0135par0505	He didn't say, Mr. President, they're deceiving Mr. Nurettin.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0136par0508	Look, dear friends, about the coal purchases... first of all, I salute you all. [[Noises from CHP rows]] Look, please listen. Look, I'm reading the exception to the coal purchases, so...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0137par0512	Sir, after your corruption...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0138par0513	Where is he, where are the others before him?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0136par0514	I'm reading the same material that's outside the scope of the Public Contraction Act: the purchases of goods and services from coal fields owned by the General Directorate of the Coal Company of Turkey, or its joint partnerships or partnerships under the rules of the Council of Ministers on coal assistance for poor families.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0138par0516	Which dam, which dam?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0139par0517	You did it, you made that law after corruption. It was post-corruption, not before.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0140par0518	Mr. Canicli, thank you, okay.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0141par0519	Where is ignorance now, dear friends, where is ignorance? That's what's been excluded from the exceptions.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0142par0520	When did he leave? Explain the dates!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0141par0521	Charcoal aid for the poor and only if it's taken from the furnaces of the Turkish Coal Company. Isn't that a shame?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0143par0523	It's someone else's stove, it's rented.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0141par0524	I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0144par0526	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0143par0527	This law was made after corruption, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0144par0528	Point taken, Mr. Erdoğdu, please...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0145par0529	Tell him if there's no report, he'll resign!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0143par0532	Mr. President, I have to inform this House of such an important matter. This law was passed while the corruption report was on trial. Is that even possible? How can the Turkish Coal Company take coal without the law except for the 4734 Public Contraction Act? I mean, it's a shame. We're really tearing ourselves apart...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0144par0533	Well, thank you, Mr. Erdoğdu. [[Continue]] Congressmans, I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There are two motions on the 27th article of the same nature, so I'm going to read it and process it together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın and Kahnamaraş MP Mahir Ünal; Prime Minister's Law and Development Party's Deputy Chairs Nurettin Canikli, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, İstanbul MP Ayşe Berçkaplı; Justice and Development Party Chair Ahmet Aydın and Şeymaraş MP Ahmet Aydın and Şemir İnal; Chairman's Council of Justice and Education Act on Some Laws and Rize MP Hayati Printer and 2 MPs's Office on the Law; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of Justice and the Council of Justice and Development; Minister's Office of the Constitution and the Council of Justice and the Council of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers; Minister of the Council of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers; Ministers of Justice and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Europeans; Ministers and the Council of State of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers of Ministers of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and the Council of the Council of Ministers of the Council of State of State of Ministers of Ministers; We propose and supply that the clause be changed in the following way. Ali Haydar Öner İdris Yıldız Mehmet Şeker Müslim Sarı Engin Özkoç Selahattin Karaahmetoğlu MADDE 27 - The Prime Minister governs these laws. Mehmet Şandir Alim Ilk Bkent Belen Zühal Topcu Erkan Akçay Enver Erdem Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu Nevzat Korkmaz Does the Commission agree with the motions of the same nature? We don't agree, Mr. President. Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0146par0559	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0144par0560	Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, demanding a statement on the motion. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0147par0563	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. Dear friends, in our opinion, according to the National Party of Action, according to the community, we are making a very important decision in the history of our republic. We make it a law that our children, our future, our nation, our country's future, our children, are taught these resources in our schools to be raised according to religious, national and human values. I've said it before, if you'll excuse me -- our people are watching us -- that's not our statement today. As the Nationalist Action Party, we, both ideologically and politically, as a government project, have put our children who are going to own our future, who are going to build our future, who are going to grow up according to our own resources, our own values, each time we express them in our election statements. Therefore, as an elective course in secondary schools and upper secondary schools, we care deeply that our children learn the knowledge of the Quran and the event, which is the source of our beliefs. As much as you said no to our proposal, we said yes to your proposal, which is the same thing, but is missing from us, and we said yes to it, and we called for an open vote to register it, and it went into the system. So some of the ministers made unfortunate statements about it, saying that the National Movement Party is exploiting it. God knows, the National Movement Party is sincere in its motion, in its support, in its decision. We see it as a declaration of will. As the National Movement Party, the translation of this declaration of will is that we have made it legal for our republic's values, the principles established by the founders of this republic, the principles set out by the founding philosophy of this state, the non-competitive, the values of our people, the beliefs of our people, the values of our people, the 99 per cent Muslim nation, to be taught in schools. That's the declaration of will. This will be a declaration of will and a statement of will will will be made by our House shortly. I wish him well. It's been a blessing, my dear friends, but look, I've just told you, you've provided such an important agreement, we think you've taken such a good step in the history of the republic, so we've made peace with the republic. This state and this republic are for this nation. What will we teach if we do not teach the values of this nation? We've done it on such a good day's work, such a great deal, but you can't ignore these accusations. Dear friends, if a drop of water falls into the water, it gets dirty, don't do that. This law is in your hands, this Public Contraction Agency is in your hands. There's no telling why you're exposed to these hoards, these accusations, every time you make an exception. The Republican People's Party, the others, our friends, and I'm worried when I examine them: why are we making this exception? Every time we try to get behind the rule we make, we make an effort to get around it. I express my sadness, not to blame. You've soiled such a beautiful, good, important subject, dear friends, I'm afraid you've soiled it. You didn't need this. Frankly, I'm sorry, but you didn't need this. You could have made your contract any way you wanted to, so there's a reason why you would have committed this country to 15 years from now. There's no way you can explain that reason. None of your motives will cover it. For him, I wish him well, I wish him well, but I also express my regrets. This whole law shouldn't have come out like this. As the National Movement Party, we thank you for the support you did not give to our motion, but I do appreciate that law being passed. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0148par0574	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. The other speaker on the proposal is İstanbul MP Müslim Sarı. Here you go, Mr. Yellow.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0149par0578	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we discussed the change in the National Education Act as much as we could for about a month, we went into technical details, we didn't get into some, we got into some, but the general framework came up, and now we're in the process. We say in this article that the Prime Minister shall uphold this law, not the Council of Ministers. Why should the Prime Minister? Because we have five solid reasons for this: First of all, this law is an ideological law. Although Mr. Secretary says there's a pedagogic and technical side here, where he's stuck in our criticisms, we don't look ideologically at this issue. Even if he says so, we'll remove the last trace of February 28 at a group meeting he's made, he says. So the Prime Minister's approach is ideological. Education is an ideological business in itself, and the Prime Minister is trying to put his whole ideological stance into this law. So please let the Prime Minister run this law. Second: This law is a fascist by the way it's done. We've seen it in all its stages; we've seen it in the Commission, we've seen it in the ODTÜ, we've seen it in the Kızılay Square, we've seen it in the General Assembly last night. It's a fascist law based on tyranny, using the methods of fascism. So please, it's up to the Prime Minister to uphold this law. Third: This law did not come as a bill, it came as a proposal, it was not signed in the Council of Ministers, the ministers did not sign under it; why should the Council of Ministers conduct it? There's a whole phase of this law, Mr. Prime Minister, in all stages. So please let the Prime Minister run this law. Fourth: The process followed the Prime Minister's instructions. In Mardin, you will work on Saturday and Sunday if necessary, but you will pass this law. He said, he gave instructions and we all know what happened on Sunday. The Prime Minister gave instructions from Seoul, and we worked until five o'clock at night. What's keeping us here until 5:00 at night? What instructions? What point of view? What mood? What would have happened if this law had been debated for another week? Why did you turn this into a political stubbornness? Therefore, there are instructions all over this process, Mr. Prime Minister. So please let the Prime Minister pass this law. Finally, this law is not in almost any of the government's documents. When you look at all the documents that shape Turkey's future, you can't see this law anywhere, including a radical change and transformation of the National Education Act. Where isn't he? It's not part of the development plan. Is there? Where isn't he? It's not on the midterm program. Is there? We had an argument in October, we talked. Where isn't he? Is it in the annual plans? No. Where isn't he? Is there a national education strategy? No. Where isn't he? Is it in the Budget Act? No. There's a lot of financial dimensions to this, but we haven't seen this anywhere in the budget during the debate that we started in October. Where isn't he? It's not in the government program. Where isn't he? It's not in the election manifest. So where do you have it? There is only one place, dear friends: This law is only in Recep Tayyip Erdogan's mind, so it falls to Recep Tayyip Erdogan to enforce such a law. And I think it's up to a postmodern dictator to enforce this law, which is all over the law, which is involved in every aspect of the law, and is involved in every process, and that governs every process, and carries indiscriminate traces. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0150par0589	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0151par0590	Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0150par0591	For the record, it's a democratic attitude to erase the evidence of the ideological stance imposed by the coup. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] Thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0151par0594	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Yes, lawmakers, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. The negotiations of the proposal are complete. Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Commissioner of Giresun, in favor of the Article 86 of the Interior Charter, to express his views on behalf and against you, before you submit the whole proposal to your votes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0152par0601	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you all. Yes, at the end of a really long marathon, the negotiations of this law proposal are complete. First of all, I want to thank everyone who's worked so hard to get this offer to this point, and I want to thank everyone who's contributed. Of course, during these studies, our Commission, our subcommittee's contribution and work must be remembered. It's particularly useful to mention our Commissioner's very important work, his contributions here. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our President, Mr. Nabi Avcı, who, of course, has contributed to our Ministry, everyone, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Of course, today is a historic day, dear friends. We may not realize it's a historic day today, but we'll find out later that it's a historic day.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0153par0605	History is a reckoning!
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0152par0606	I thank the Lord thousands of times for giving us such an historic honor, for bearing witness to a historic honor, and for making it his duty to contribute.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0154par0608	You should be thanking us, too.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0152par0609	I would especially like to thank all of our fellow lawmakers who contributed in the discussion of this proposal, and the Nationalist Movement Party, which contributed specifically to the 9th article, and all of our fellow nationalist Movement Party members, and we should mention them here. Dear friends, let no one have the slightest doubt. This is indeed a democratic arrangement. This is not an arrangement to respect our nation's will, to give them the choice, to force them to do anything. So, in that way, all of our friends, especially the Republican People's Party, or our friends who are against it, will be seen when the slightest hesitation is implemented.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0155par0611	Yeah, yeah, we'll see.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0152par0612	Everyone who lives in Turkey, who lives in this land, regardless of its religion, origin, nationality, will benefit from such opportunities if they demand it equally. This is pluralism, one of the best examples of respecting our citizens, our nation, is one of the ways they reflect. So, dear friends...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0156par0614	Mr. Canikli, there are people from BDP who vote yes, why don't you thank them?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0157par0615	Mr. Canikli, there are people from the BDP who vote yes, don't be unfair to them, you're unjust to them. You didn't even look at the BDP.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0158par0616	Yeah, yeah, we did.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0159par0617	No, of course, I thank them, I don't know, I don't know. Thank you, I don't know if they voted, and I thank them, but...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0160par0618	Why don't you mention their names? What parties?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0159par0619	Dear friends, as a result, our fellow Republican People's Party MPs have contributed...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0161par0620	We're not needed.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0159par0621	.... So let's not deny it, knowingly or not, but they contributed, and I thank them.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0161par0622	Who do you mean, "they"?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0159par0623	Dear friends, I hope it will be good luck, I hope it will bring blessings, and I hope it will help our nation move our future further, a law that will contribute greatly to the rise of our nation's moral values, a historic decision, and the decision is our nation's. An opportunity from our nation is being restored to our nation today. I wish you all the best, thank you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0162par0626	Now, again, the Civil Code is to state its views in accordance with Article 86 and to speak against Engin Altay, Sinop MP. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0163par0628	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, don't worry, what they did in Article 9 was a total boatman's quarrel. There's no point in being thanked for that.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0164par0629	We don't have a sea. We have a boat.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0163par0630	I'd love to join Mr. Canikli's wishes, but unfortunately, I can't agree with Mr. Canikli's wishes. Dear MPs, parliaments are where their state, the founding will, and the basic foundations of that will are protected. Parliaments are not places where the attributes of the state that find its statement in the constitution will be replaced by the majority of fingers by the law. Such qualities, at any rate, can be replaced by referendums. I want this to be known. This law showed that your attitude in the process of law showed that I was wrong, that from the beginning, I felt that you had the desire to rematch from February 28, 1997, but now I understand that the rematch that most of you really wanted was October 29, 1923. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I've told you before, we're aware that some of you have a problem with the AKP executive, authority, influence, MP, the republic, but...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0165par0634	Nobody's got a problem.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0163par0635	I want you to know that our citizens who voted for you, who lived in the Republic of Turkey, don't think like you do, and that the majority of them have no problem with the republic, that this nation has embraced the interests of the republic. Dear lawmakers, the Law of Tevhidi Tedrisat, to block out what, to clear the way for what? Question 1: To whom does it benefit that a whole country is reduced to a zero-reader level in an instant by means of the Letter Library? Question 2) And one interpretation: there is no longer room for Kemalism or any other official ideology in the future of Turkey. This is also an interpretation. Those words belong to the Prime Minister. A person who speaks such words, regardless of his duties, whatever position he is in, has a problem with this lofty roof in which we share his environment. (CHP clapping in rows) This is...
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0166par0639	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0163par0640	Yeah. And the prime ministers need to know that you're not the head of the law. Prime Ministers don't have a duty to raise a generation one way or another. The prime ministers have no obligation to respond to a fight with Pennsylvania through five-year-olds and to respond to the mosque through five-year-olds. It is not their duty to play on the education system by receiving instructions from the congregations and foundations of the prime ministers. Congressmans, secularism is the most fundamental feature of being a community and a state in all communities. (HPP) The end of countries played with the secular system is Egypt. The end of secularised countries is Libya. The end of countries played with the secular system is Syria, Tunisia, Algeria, Morocco, and their leaders, and I want it to be known. I'm giving you a historic warning: you left the file you received during the training period and took a knife in your hand, and now, in your mastery period, you left the knife today, and you took a cleaver in your hand. I hope and wish you wouldn't use it. These are the people whose lives are short on which you go, deceiving each other with Allah. These people don't see or perceive you as you think they do. As soon as you see it, unfortunately, you'll live to see it, and I'll stress it again and say that the Republic of Turkey, in any case... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will remain secular forever.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0167par0651	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Congressmans, I will submit the whole proposal to your votes, but there is a motion for an open vote on the entire proposal, to read the motion and call for signatures. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand an open vote on the entire proposal of law number 199. We'll see what we can do. Recep Special? Here. Nurettin Canikli? Here. Ayþe Nur Bahçakılı? Here. Mahir Ünal? Here. Ahmet Aydın? Here. Hussein Don't be sad? Here. Ismail Sun? Here. Bulent Turan? Here. Mehmet Doğan Kabbat? Here. Tülay Boiling? Here. Ramadan Can? Here. Ali Şahin? Here. Soryya Sadi Scholar? Here. Osman love See? Here. Hüseyin Burge? Here. Nurdan Glorious? Here. Çazatai Sword? Here. Tülin Erkal Kara? Here. Oya Eronat? Here. Mustafa Şahin? Here. I'll make a decision from the General Assembly on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote and give you four minutes. Congressmans, the Minister will give a thank-you speech. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, the clear vote of Law Proposal No. 199 is: Accepted 295 [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] [[x]] Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Bayram Özçik So the offer is accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0168par0694	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, today is a really important day for us. With the law we adopted today, we've made an arrangement in the Turkish education system that has approved a transition from a solid, single-type structure to a more democratic, more flexible structure. In other words, from now on, instead of raising one type of people in the Turkish education system, we will be taking a step towards raising children with knowledge and abilities that will meet our expectations in this country and in this society, but more importantly, each of our children as a separate person, as a potential and a world that each of them can develop according to their ability and abilities. This law, in fact, will not only have the quality of democratizing our system, democratizing the structure of our system, but my personal opinion will also go down in history as an important step towards the reconciliation of the people and the state in Turkey. We've brought the people and the government a little closer, and we've made a little more peace. I'm sure that as this reconciliation grows and develops, the Republic of Turkey and our republic will have a stronger support to survive forever. I wanted to say it again on another occasion. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Indeed, you have given us support and strength both in the process of commission work and in the General Assembly of the National Assembly, with great effort and determination. I'd like to thank each and every one of you for your contribution in this process. My thanks are not only for the AK PARTY Group but also for each of our opposition parties, who have been involved in both criticism and occasional support and contributions. I also want to thank the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party, and the BDP. More importantly, because of their support on Article 9 of the National Movement Party, I humbly thank our MPs, our deputies from the BDP, and all of you.
tbmm-2012-03-30sit02spe0169par0700	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, we will begin talks with the Commission for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs and the Plans and Budget Commission Reports in the 5th place, under the Law of Public Officials Unions. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The law proposal for the development of forest villages and the evaluation of places outside the Forest Borders in the name of the Treasury, along with the Bill of Law on the Sales of Agriculture Lands of Treasures, and the Minister of Milliyetian Action Party Group Deputy Minister Mehmet Şantir. 2/B Peace Act, Mehmet Şandir.; Law proposal for the Development of Forest Villagers; Republican People's Party Chairs Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gır Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B Proposals for Foreign Affairs; Ministership of the Law on Development of Forests; Ministerships of the Republican People's Party Party Party (Turkish Party) and Ministership of Turkish Parliament (Turkish Party) and Ministerships of Turkish Parliament (Turkish Party). Commission? No. It's been postponed. According to the decision taken, Youth and Sports Minister Suat Kılıç and Deputy Prime Minister Beşir are scheduled to discuss whether or not the motions for the motions to be brought up in the matter of Atalay will be held, and other tasks from the commissions will be discussed on Saturday (March 31st 2012) in order to discuss in order of their bill and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
