tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Kars MP Yunus Kılıç, who asked for the name of World Milk Day. Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I'd like to start by wishing you a good week. May 21st, World Milk Day. This is a day recorded by the World Milkers' Federation in 1956. What does the Dairy Federation recommend today? He recommends to NGOs, universities, government officials, all institutions and organizations who are responsible, that milk is a very important food ingredient in human feeding, animal feeding. Highlight the importance of milk today, encourage the consumption of milk, production, and transportation to our people in healthy conditions. Yes, when you look at milk, it's really... of course, when you say milk, you don't just understand animal milk, but most importantly, breast milk is human milk. Human milk, especially from mothers, is recommended by mothers to give violence to children until their immune system develops, especially in the first six months, even with additional foods, for two years. Yet, even in a country like Turkey, only four out of 10 of our children can get breast milk for six months, so let alone two years, even six months, only four. So even at the point of milking, especially at the point of breast milk, there's an inadequacy in our country, which needs to be reinforced, needs to be supported. Respected lawmakers, healthy nutrition is one of the basic human rights, and our governments, who should be responsible, need to give people the right to human rights in some way in healthy environments. You know, with that feeling, we have a milk agenda with this real milk. The AK PARTI government and the Agriculture Ministry, which sees this responsibility, have decided to distribute milk to our people, especially our children, especially our children, up to the age of 18, to grow, to develop generations that can think, think, produce, develop technology, but, you know, before they reach milk schools, before they reach children's stomachs, they have started to say very serious speculative things in our country, especially in Congress. We, of course, listened to this, and we watched this. We, members of the scientific side, have watched it more because science requires knowing speech; science requires respect for man and science. And the results were released, and there were no cases of pathogens or non-pathogen bacteria in any of the cases that occurred in the schools. So, what was all that about? When you look at these events, they're called aergic reactions, and no, it turns out it wasn't, because not all children in one classroom could have had allergic reactions, and that could not have been possible. It was called lactose intolerants, and it was seen that it wasn't, because lactose intolerants are usually in bigger people, and they can't all be in the same classrooms, the same schools. What was it, fellas? When you examined it, the children whose neural psychological infrastructure was not fully formed, it was a simple case of a vomiting reflex, along with the increase of neural symptoms, as if they had been perceived as an imposition, a resistance. I would argue that a psychologist on these children, with the help of their families, with the help of their families, contributes to their psychological infrastructure for a day or two, and you'll see that when these children consume milk, there will be no shortage. So, what's with all the yelling, lawmakers? Look, it's not really appropriate to do politics on such an important, sensitive subject. I watched the whole speech yesterday about Milk Day. They were confirming us, supporting us. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0003par0020	Thank you, Mr. Sword. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP Melda Onur, who wants to speak on Earth's Biological Variety Day. Here you go, Mr. Onur.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0004par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, the world has dedicated today to biological diversity, and the subject of the precious congressman who just spoke is actually relevant. It sounds foreign at first, but we're so close to it that sometimes we use the poem of Nazim Hikmet to influence our conversations, and we say, "This is our land, from Far Asia to the Mediterranean, which is like a mare's head from Far Asia." We say, "This is our land, which extends from Asia to the Mediterranean," not just with the land and the people, but with the wolf, and the tree, and the flower, and the insect. We boast that there is only one stone, a bridge, a crossroads country in the heart of our country's Caucasus, the Middle East, the Mediterranean and Europe, but without realizing it, we also talk about this multicultural ecology. This is where our country prospers with its fauna and fluorine, its cultural and historical heritage. We are obliged to leave the diversity we're entrusted with without diminishing or harming future generations, at which point we must make legal arrangements with precision. Dear friends, in 2003 preparations for the Law on Nature Protection and Biological Variety began, and in 2010, he was transferred to Parliament under the Law on the Protection of Nature and Biological Variety, but he remained. Finally, on May 17th, the Council of Ministers came back on the agenda of Parliament with its signature, but its draft bill, unfortunately, includes both the preparation process and the main protection approach angles. First of all, we know that NGOs and experts who gave their opinion in 2003 have not been able to see their views in the current draft, which shows that the draft is far from inclusion, and that the drafting of the law does not resolve conflicts between protected areas and other sectors such as biodiversity, urbanization, energy, and other sectors such as mining, urbanization, protection is weak and inadequate, so it seems that regulations for use are weighted. There's a lot to say about the law, he's saving our words for the commission, but we want to rephrase the most important, the most critical, this bill eliminates natural status. There's no need to explain what it means to eliminate natural sites here, but some of you might say, "What are you dealing with, Melda?" For example, do you think that the removal of natural sites will only affect the nature, trees, and animals, but will give people new life, work, housing, shopping malls? Do you see the environment as a distraction of a flower, an insect, a group of white collars? Recently, as the Environment Commission -- I have friends here too -- we've signed an international contract to protect whales. The bureaucratic friends were very happy because it was a very important issue, and if we signed it, the number of people who were protecting it was ahead of us. One of them doesn't have whales in our waters, but it's a matter of prestige for us. He said, it's a matter of prestige. However, if a whale dies in unnatural conditions on remote seas, the future of a small child in a village in Turkey would be marred by its right to live. It's very easy to protect the species that don't grow, but when the red-spoted trout that are trapped in the river plants in Longdere are gone, something will disappear from the future of Ahmet Akif and Omar Tayyip. If an otter dies and a fruit tree dries, it is lost from the future of Layla. What happens to people in Kozak who breathe the same air when the pistachio pines are drying with the air they breathe? Climate change is not just the problem of polar bears. Without further ado, you can look at the negativity of the law, the drafting of the law in a different way, as well as the precious friends in the 24th term -- who we laughed at sometimes -- and if you'll accept it, I'd like to adopt you a dolphin from the Dolphin Protection Program of the Natural Life Foundation. We're going to distribute these documents to the groups of my fellow congressmen, but, Mr. President, if I may, I'd like to present the documents of the presidents and the members of the group, Mr. Speaker, as well. We have a Minister from the government. I think I have his document with me, and I'd like to give it to him. The last thing I want to say is let's not forget that today's extinct turtle, orphosis, and reed cat are our silent children. Without them, our children's future will be blackened.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you, Mr. Onur. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Iğdır MP Sinan Oğan (Iğdır) who wants to speak about Iğdır's problems. Here you go, Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, first of all, I want to say that in the 57th year of the death of Nene Hatun, one of the most important defenders of our national spirit in the fight against the enemy, who, through the compassion of our wounded people in Erzurum, in 1877-78 during the Ottoman-Russian War, lay an important example for all of us in the hearts of our country's love. Again, on May 22, I would like to remind you that Iğdır., especially Tuzluca County, is one of Turkey's most important places of biological diversity, and that the necessary protection measures in our heavenly homeland should be taken in this sense. Again, May 21 is World Milk Day and Milk Week. I'd like to say once again that while our children are being given bad milk by the state, the problems of the milk makers should be on the agenda of this House. My fellow lawmakers, the industrial site, which was founded in Iğdır, 1976, today, unfortunately, is in a sad state. The industrial site is in the mud, even though the roads are in the city, it's flooded, the industry industry is devastated in this sense, but most of all, the Iğdır Industrial Site has been carried out today and is unable to work with the state's hands. Neither SERKA (SERKA) nor COSGEB (KoSGEB) can be used in that sense. Let me make it a little bit more difficult for you. The Justice and Development Party is coming to power by exploiting the citizens' religious feelings, but I'll tell you what's more critical is that the Justice and Development Party's government, as well as all of the Iğdır Industrial Site, has also implemented the mosque where our people in the Iğdır Industrial Site will be able to fulfill their religious obligations. Do you think, as a government that washes mosques and performs mosques, the problems of the Iğdır Industrial Site, at least in this frame, the mosque will be saved from execution? Therefore, the Igdir knows what you're doing very well. You also took the industrial site from Iğdır. You took away a lot of things from Iğdir, but you didn't take away one thing: My fellow AK PARTY MPs, you didn't get the vote of Iğdır. You didn't get Iğdir's vote on June 12th. As long as you're putting Iğdır to work like this, make sure that you don't get a single game, not in the next municipal elections, or in the next city elections, and then you don't get everything from the Iğdırlı. In Iğdır, all our ministries have borough offices. There's been a certain balance so far, and there were people assigned to these county offices, but you drove them all out of Iğdır, as many governors as we had in Iğdır. I'm asking you, I'm asking all the relevant ministries, and I'm asking our Minister of National Education here, why in God's name is there no Iğdırlı, a servant of God, who will manage the state, and why are you trying to derail the political and social balance in Iğdır? A structure based on a certain ethnicity will not help Iğdır. It will not help either Turkey or you. Don't they have potatoes in lğdır? Our state institutions are buying potatoes from Van, even in Iğdır. Why is it that state institutions in Iğdır are spending the Iğdırlı's money at the site of Iğdırlı, where the managers are taking the needs of İğdır, their institutions, from the provinces outside of Iğdır? Dear MPs, Iğdır is one of Turkey's most strategic provinces, but unfortunately Iğdir continues to be punished when the Justice and Development Party is ruling. You continue to punish Iğdur, and Iğdır will continue to punish you as it was yesterday in the ark. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0007par0049	Thank you, Mr. Oğan. We're going on the agenda. Congressmans who have entered the system, you know we can't promise off-the-tops talks. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of National Education Ömer Dinçer has asked for 124, 125, 186, 202, 203, 315, 322, 323, 326, 328, 349, 371, 372, 372, 373, 373, 533, 726, 726, 726, 721, 711, 124, 125, 130, 186, 201, 201, 202, 203, 315, 322, 323, 324, 328, 349, 351, 371, 372, 373, 533, 726, 721, 721, 713, 713, 113, 113, and 113. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Parliamentary Research Commission was established in the Tuzla Shipyard area due to intense business accidents in the Tuzla Shipyards region from 2007 to early 2008, and the Commission completed its work and brought it to the report stage. However, major problems are also experienced in shipyards operating in the Black Sea Eregli, not only in the Tuzla Shipyard Zone. These problems affect the peace of work in the region and the economy of the region very heavily. The Black Sea Ereğli economy, shaken by the withdrawal of workers working in Erdemir on the basis of the crisis and the reduction of the number of workers working in Erdemir, has also suffered a severe concussion due to major negative developments in the shipyards, shown as a major business gate and a new hope a few years ago. There are eight shipyards in the Black Sea Eregli region. A large portion of these shipyards have been brought to the press and the region's agenda by intensive labour landings since early 2009. In 2008, about 6,000 workers were working, while as of today, the number of workers was reduced to very symbolic figures. In addition, most of the shipyards in the area have stopped operating by removing all their employees. In the industry, which is the most dangerous and dangerous workforce, thousands of workers have been laid off, workers have not been paid on time, their wages are not fully reflected in the payroll, their workers are victims in many ways, due to the lack of pension income, and so on. b. like.) It has been brought up and brought up intensively by working workers. It is also necessary to apply for sub-employment as an exception in business law and only for "substantive work and service production jobs and for technological reasons which require expertise by the nature of the work and by the nature of the job," whereas in shipyards, it has become widespread beyond the scope of the law, which is largely restricting individual labour rights (the lower salary, a basic human right to trade union, collective contract and strike rights, labour health and labour safety regulations). I can see that. It is also widely expressed that workers who have been laid off and have been laid off have not been given a majority of the rights due to business law, such as reporting and severance pay. As noted above, this has become a major bleeding wound that disrupts the peace of working in the Black Sea Ereğli, which violates economic and social peace. Thus, the need for this motion to be submitted to the presidency of TBMM is to investigate these problems and to find solutions by identifying the reasons, as business law also concerns public order, business peace and social - economic peace are not only the main duty of the worker and the employer, but also the state. The fact that half the shipyards in the region are now closing down has also given rise to the need to investigate the causes and solutions of this process in the shipyard sector. Due to intense subcontractorization at shipyards, there are also serious problems between shipyard owners and subcontractors. For reasons above, laid off, working in violation of the laws of employment and the mandates of the constitution and having failed to obtain their rights, the workers suffered a great loss, as well as the measures taken to the Shipyards in order to determine the measures taken to the Shipyards for the reflection of the Black Sea Ereğli's economic and social life, as well as the process of bringing the shipyards to this point due to the closure point of some shipyards, and other problems created by subcontracting subcontracting. And the 104th Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. 1) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] [[Mughle]] 5) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 8) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] 12) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Antalya]] [[Scholarship]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] 18) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 22) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly All our citizens who have lived in our country for years have had a common value, and, of course, the Red Moon has been seen as the only port of refuge in disasters. All our citizens have always had the pride of doing their duty to humanity with no doubt in their hearts when they offered their help, without expecting anything in return to the Red Moon. They've opened branches all over Turkey, and they've always wanted to take part in the Kızılay administration in the provinces and districts, and they've been very successful in their work. In particular, there has been a very successful process of blood donations. For years, he has provided blood for all the health organizations in our country, and has always been there for our citizens when they need blood. Turkey's Kızılay (Turkish Kızılay) was the first institution to stand by our citizens in all the natural disasters in our country, taking important responsibility for the healing of the wounds, first meeting the urgent needs of our citizens. Also, no matter where in the world, of course, there has been an exemplary organization that extends its hand in all disasters. Until the 2000s, no power had interfered with the administration and control of the Turkish Redfang, and the Redbear administrations were formed with a kind understanding of the Red's inner self. Chosen governments have worked solely with a sense of philanthropy without being affected by any political power. Recently, however, there have been political intervention in the rule of Kızılay, so there have been significant doubts among our humanitarian citizens, and there have been significant reductions in aid. The Kızılay branches in the provinces and districts have been reduced, and the humanitarians have begun to flee the post. Hence, political interference has also begun to take place in the assistance provided by the Red Moon. Therefore, there have been significant doubts by citizens about the neutrality of the Red Sea, and not enough resources have been obtained by the Red Moon. The earthquake occurred in Van and around him, and it was evident that the Red had been inadequate in terms of aid. Therefore, under Articles 98 of the Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Civil Code, I move that Parliament be investigated. Yours truly. 1) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Malatya]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Adana]] 8) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mughle]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] 13) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] 19) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 21) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Army]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The picture of Labour Security and Labour Health in our country is creepy. The most important result of business accidents and occupational illness is human loss, such as death, severe injury, incapacity, occupational illness. The deaths form the most irreparable dimension of business accidents. In the current production structure, it's no exaggeration to describe death as a murder. Turkey has a third degree in labour safety and health in Europe. There are 80,000 occupational accidents in Turkey each year, 1,200-1 in accidents. Between 700 people are dying, more than 2,000 people are injured, some 2 million workdays are lost. As a result of business accidents so far, around 55,000 workers are still permanently unemployed. In Turkey, business accidents and some of the diseases and deaths caused by them are unregistered, while some of them are listed as individual accidents and diseases, so the figures do not reflect the truth. The mentality, which sees the worker as just a cost factor, can relax the safety measures to reduce costs and ignore basic labour health conditions. Business accidents cannot be viewed as a simple health issue or a technical issue of production. A work accident is a problem with a person's social side. Workers are not the cause of business accidents, they are the vulnerable side. The worker has been made a technical element that can be found by paying for the production process; the value of the worker is measured by the price of his labor; the right to live as a human is not considered in this process. Unless human - workers are at the center of the production process and the labour health issue is seen as part of the general health of society, the problem is being discussed on a wrong basis. In that case, occupational accidents and occupational disorders cannot be viewed as health problems caused by a technical process, which is isolated from social status. The problem needs to be defined and discussed on a social basis. The problem is not solved by the concept of production for production, which sees the worker as a technical input to the production process. In Turkey, production, business interests and individual interests have always preceded business safety and health problems. During the AKP's rule, the problem has grown since there is no importance and priority for business safety and health. In the neo-liberal economic policies of AKP rule, privatisation, subcontractorization, business profits, exports and so on, adopted as basic achievement measures, in no way included the manufacturer's work in the background of these elements, the workers. Maintaining and maintaining the health and sustaining of a worker who is at risk of occupational hazard and occupational illness can be provided with the acceptance of the worker as a social entity. Such understanding is the key to the problem. "No job is urgent enough without security measures." The main reasons for the development and strengthening of democracy in the country, the impacts of subcontractorisation and ununion policies, especially the increased economic crisis and unemployment, the impact on business safety and health, the position of business accidents and occupational disease in our country, and the height of those rates among the countries of the world, have been determined to establish the overall burden of occupational and occupational illness on the country's economy, to determine the basis for the extent of the level of business safety and occupational health in our country, and to establish the basis for the level of health in the country, and to set up the basis for the number of policies of jobs and occupational diseases in the country. And the House Civil Code 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit the opening of Parliamental research. 1) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[Çanakkale]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] 7) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 8) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 9) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 14) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] 15) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Hatay]] 20) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] 23) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] 25) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Army]] [[Scholarship]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will take place on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Prime Minister's office has a statement issued according to Article 82 of the Constitution, and I will have it read and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For talks, it was considered appropriate for lawmakers to participate in my official visit to China on April 7-11, 2012, with their names on the addendum list, and the image of the Council of Ministers' decision on this matter has been sent in context. In accordance with Article 82 of the Constitution, I submit the requirements. Abdulkadir Emin Önlıurfa MP I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Prime Minister has a statement concerning the rescinding of the bill, so I'll have it read and put to your votes. I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Care: 24/10/2011 and B. 02. 0. KKG. 0. It's 10/101-363/3420. In addition to our interest, I would like to request that the "Designation of the Economic and Trade Co-operation Agreement Between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Peru be sent back to Article 75 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 22.05.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday (now) I would like to propose that the following proposal of our group be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On March 27, 2012 and the presidency of TBMM, it has been suggested that our parliamentary research proposal for the Council of Ministers, which is "the main and most important element in the command system of Turkish armed forces, should be read in today's General Assembly on Tuesday (June 22,05,2012), in order to determine the victimification of the government's actions, to address these problems and determine the solutions." On behalf of the group's proposal, Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, Osmaniye MP.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0008par0273	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's National Movement Party's Group to investigate the problems of our petty officers, one of the key elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, to determine the victimification of these problems due to government practices and to open a parliamentary investigation to determine the solutions. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin by asking for the mercy of Special Ops Officer Akin Bajram, his grieving family and the great Turkish nation who were killed in an operation to save the head of Kulp County of Justice and Development Party, which was kidnapped yesterday (November 4) by separatist killers in the rural Diyarbakır area, and for immediate healing for our wounded. I must say, we appreciate that the operation to rescue AKP Kulp County's president from separatist killers was a very good decision. In the same way, we are confident that rescue operations will be carried out in the hands of the separatist assassins, Kenan Erenoglu, Police Officer Nadir Özgen, Special Sergeant Kemal Ekinci, Special Sergeant's Mind Coach, and Abdullah Spazce, who we are talking about today. And I wish patience for the families who await this good news. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, the most important guarantee of our existence in the Anatolian geography, where countless civilizations have appeared, many states have been established, but only the Turkish nation and the Turkish state can last this long, is the national power elements that we have, and, of course, the Turkish Armed Forces in the first place. Turkey's Armed Forces, including officers, petty officers, experts, and under command Mehmetçikuk, have the most important basis of the Turkish Nation, which has qualities that can be displayed by finger among the world's armies. Since the founding of the Republic, there has always been a Turkish army in the fight against separatist terrorism that has been slaughtering our peace, prosperity and people for 28 years, alongside the persecuted and genocide of Cypriots during international co-operation, such as Korea, Somalia, Afghanistan, Bosnia. In all achievements, officers, petty officers, specialists, and Mehmetchiks have always been side by side. They wore the same uniform, ate in the same trailer, worked at the same headquarters, fought on the same front, but unfortunately, in some cases, they also encountered inequality, unjust practices. We're all aware that Petty Officers and Specialists are dealing with some inadmissible practices. With about 100,000 of them, the regular petty officers, the retired petty officers, who have again scored about 120,000, have been building up for years, and have made promises to resolve, yet patiently and in military discipline, they expect the promises to be kept. The AKP governments stand firm, not fulfilling the promise they made to our petty officers, as they did to our police officers, our 4/C) people. In 2007, we should keep promises made to our police on television programs, live broadcasts. What you did to the police has become an injustice. As the National Movement Party, we've become followers, followers, and followers. Again, the AKP Group, which constitutes the parliamentary majority, has not been able to reach a solution because we have provided three parliamentary investigations, six law proposals, and countless questions at the 23rd Term Assembly, including the solution to the problems of our petty officers. The recent ownership of the military and military government, which was away from the military at that time, is both thought - inspiring and promising for the solution to problems. The National Movement Party, which aims to ensure that employees will have a working regime in international standards and wants a fair wage regime, thinks that when they retire, their income should be paid to civil servants who have completed five years in accordance with Article 631 of the Law, which reduced their pensions by close to 50 per cent. The Law 4752 also considers it important to ensure that the pensioners who are not benefiting from the provision of training levels to the level of pre-license. Petty Officers, who are heavily retired from the 2nd degree, are unable to benefit from the additional number of indicators in the 1st degree. Those who are retired from the 2nd degree also receive 70 per cent of the highest public official's salary. Since it is 130 per cent in pensioners from the 1st degree, the difference between the two is nearing 500 euros and causing injustice. Petty officers are victims of a system that can't rise to the 4th level of the 1st degree, even though it has all the conditions. For government officials, having a preliminary license is sufficient to go up to the fourth degree of the first degree, while petty officers can only get to the third level of the 1st degree if they have a master's degree, a master's degree, a degree's degree. What's interesting and funny is that civil servants who work for and undergraduate NCOs can go up to the 4th level of the 1st degree. In accordance with Article 81 of Retirement Ark 5434, pensioners who have not been eligible for office compensation are also denied this 100k, including pensioners and neighborhood guards, including the MIT services and safety services classes, while retired petty officers who have not received any compensation during the retirement period are also denied this 100 TL. All officers are given a degree due to their being assigned to a technical position under Article 36 of the State Officers' Law. Petty officers don't get that degree even though they do a technical task. Petty Officers should be given a degree and pensioners should be corrected accordingly. The transition rate from petty officer to officer must be increased, and the professional motivation of petty officers and the contribution to boosting the quality of staff in the Turkish Armed Forces. It's an unexplainable inequality when it comes to the commander's discretion and quota to give 1 degree and 1 degree to undergraduate petty officers. This practice must be changed to include all pensioners with graduate education. Despite the fact that they are the majority of members of the C.E.A.C., the petty officers are not in charge enough. Other than not being in charge, retired petty officers are not allowed to work. This also undermines the trust of the participants in the institution and leads to the search for rights in international courts. Petty Officers should get their share of OYAK management and services while working and retiring. Rather, the OYAK system will be strengthened, which will include enough of the Petty Officers. Petty officers, such as military service, who carry on a difficult task that everyone can't carry on, have a thousand years of hard work and a degree in law degree, but even though they have a law degree, the petty officers are neither in military courts nor in disciplinary courts. In respect of science and driver's license, it is important for our petty officers to be integrated into the system with their legal identities, considering military hierarchy, especially to avoid the feeling of isolation. Contracted officers are employed in Turkish Armed Forces, which are sometimes needed. However, if the petty officers who gave their years to the Turkish Armed Forces were given the opportunity and the need was provided by experienced elite petty officers, there would be two wins for the Turkish Armed Forces. Also, in Turkish Armed Forces hospitals, against petty officers, the practice of polyclinics, based on rank, is not even worth discussing. If it's still going on, there's no covering it up. Doctors approach their patients not according to their rank, but according to their urgency and Hippocratic oath. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, as MPs of the National Movement Party, as the basis for the arrangements for the resolution of these problems I'm referring to, many research proposals, law proposals and written questions have been brought to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. These proposals are for your approval, which will eliminate injustices, make peace among the workers, and be based on a fair wage system. In the event of the adoption of the Grand Assembly, our eyes will peak in the morale and motivations of our petty officers, one of the main elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, all over the country, the integrity of the country, the unity of the Turkish nation and the support of the Turkish state. With these feelings, I request the acceptance of our research proposal, and salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0009par0291	Thank you. It's Smurf Ünal, İstanbul MP, who has asked for a word against the proposal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0010par0295	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the nationalist Movement Party's group proposal. I hereby salute your high council. As you know, the military is the right and duty of every Turkish citizen under Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The AK PARTY government has been running the country for about ten years, in order to keep the people alive. Over the past ten years, along with civil servants, the officer, the petty officer, and the expert gendarme, the privates, have provided us with an increase in revenue over inflation. We still have a senior colonel with a monthly salary of 4.692 Turkish liras, which is about three times the size of our national income. The senior sergeant with 3.030 Turkish monthly net income is about twice the income of our national income. An expert's net salary is about 2,000 liras. This friend also has 1.32 times the income of our national income. Members of the law, as a result of co-ordinated work by the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Interior, the proposals for a change of law have been prepared for you shortly. More than half of these amendments concern the Turkish Armed Forces. About 20 laws have been changed as part of recent improvements. The proposed amendments were adopted last week in harmony with our National Minister of Defence and expert bureaucrats, and the National Defence Commission has been assessed, necessary additional and corrections. I find it useful to point out that the preparation of existing personnel, privates and privates in the Turkish Armed Forces to prepare for education under better conditions, improving their rights is a major step towards the transition of the government to the professional army in line with the 2023 objectives of our government. Members of the MPs, it is not favourable for the removal of the draft parliaments, which have been established for short periods of military office and non-opportunity by the military branch's presidential office; the removal of the first roll-up and absorption roll call; the postponing health examinations of the responsible, their permanent disorders, their medications, their records of surgery and operations; the ability to be made possible by family physicians, the ability to be made possible by those who do not have a military hospital, the disability, the loss of limbs, the removal of non-employmentary parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary parliaments; the removal of first roll-ups, or the post-responsion of health reports of the responsibilities; the non-responsories of the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the responsibilities of health department, and the institutionalisation of the university, and the adoption of the institution, as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as well as possible as possible as possible as possible for the adoptionspons for the adoption; the adoption and the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the adoption of the application of the institution of the university, the university, and the application of its and the adoption of the application of the application of the application of the application of the application of the application of the university of the university, and access of the university of the university of the university of the institution; the application of the application of the application of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university of the university, the university, and the university, and the university of the university, the university, and its of the university, the university, and the university, and the university of the university, the university, the university, the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the rights, its, and the university, and the right of the rights, and the rights, the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights, and its, and its, and its, and the right of the right of the right of its In addition, by amendments to the Constitutional Court of Human Rights and Constitutional Court's decisions, regulations have been made concerning the independence of the courts and the provisions of the provisions of the Court of Justices of Military Judges, First Class and First Class procedures, autonomy rights, rights and rights and complaints, investigations and prosecution agencies, personal crimes subject to the general judiciary and personal responsibility, independence, guarantees and duties. In the Military Supreme Court Act 1,600, regulations have been made in the positions of the military Supreme Court and its members, and regulations have been made in Article 1602 concerning the processing of the cases. The amendment in the Law Against Court of Military Courts No. 353 has been changed and the Article of Complaints and Complaints has been changed. Congressmans, I wish that this bill, which is on our agenda, will be legalized and good for our country and our nation. On this occasion, I would like to extend my regards to you all by saying that we are unable to participate in the National Party of Action Group proposal.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0011par0304	Thank you. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar, has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0012par0307	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the motion to investigate the underprivileged petty officers. I salute your high council. Before we begin my words, my condolences to the families of our soldiers who were killed at Hatay Amanos, and to the families of a policeman who died yesterday after a cannon explosion, called an accident, and to God for mercy, and to the wounded, I pray for immediate healing. Dear friends, today we will meet today on the agenda of an amendment to the Military Code and different laws. While this law was being discussed, we said that petty officers, specialists and gendarmes had serious problems, and military students should be judged during this legal arrangement. Again, we came up with suggestions that we might be able to find a solution to the problems of people who have been retired and have been wronged and have been discriminated against by a change in the TSK Staff Act, which has been added in the past, and that's what we discussed in the commission. Although the law that we're about to discuss comes with the agreement of almost all groups, we've agreed to it because we've done some improvements together and we're going to vote positive. But this law is not a law that has solved any of the problems I just counted. In particular, the problems of petty officers, gendarmes, specialist sergeants, specialists are almost entirely in the middle. My dear friends, considering the regular petty officers and retired petty officers, whose numbers are 100,000, they're equivalent to close to a million people with their families. These people have had problems that have been piling up for years. For years, there have been promises to resolve these problems, but unlike what my friend just said, none of them have ever been kept. If he had been hired, the petty officers' problems wouldn't be a problem again today. What do the petty officers want, what problems have been solved, what problems do they want solved? Now, look, I'll see what the petty officers want. The problems so simple have not been solved that they continue today and demand of us. Petty Officers want to be given representation and severance pay for the other officers. It's as simple as that. Years ago, Mr. Prime Minister, even though the ministers of the national defence have promised to improve these matters, it means until today that these promises have not been fulfilled, these promises haven't been made, this demand is still under way. What do the petty officers want again? The contract officer wants to be treated like a senior petty officer. So he's a petty officer; he's a military officer; he's got the most serious training in the military; he's a soldier in the most serious way. Instead, you, instead of this experience, replace this savings with a chartered officer. At least this savings, this experience should be used from us rather than from outside by contracting officers. What do the petty officers want? They want a horizontal transfer from Petty Officers' universities of applied sciences to black military schools. So we don't understand why you can't get student students from high school and you can't get a horizontal transfer from Petty Officers Colleges. Which means the petty officer's problem hasn't been solved either. What do the petty officers want now? They want to be upgraded to level 4 of the first degree. Yes, with this legal arrangement, we've made it possible for petty officers to rise to level 4 of the 1st degree, but since the indicator remains the same, there's a raise of about $4 a month. So we raised you to the 4th level of the 1st degree, but when we call it a four-dollar increase in salary, it's a way of making fun of the petty officer, my friends. They want five and seven years instead of seven and nine, so it's a very simple solution, but no one can solve it. What do they want? Petty officers who are most involved in OYAK, but are at least represented and have the least use of OYAK's facilities. He really wants to take advantage of these possibilities. What do they want? They want to take advantage of the military's social facilities in equal terms. What do they want? They want to take advantage of hospitals on equal terms. My dear friends, these problems are all unresolved problems, but we've closed our eyes to these demands so far, we've promised, but we haven't fulfilled them. Dear friends, and then there's the veterans, and then there's the veterans, and then there's the veterans. With the legal arrangement we've brought in, the legal arrangement we're about to discuss, we haven't been able to find a solution to their problems. Unfortunately, their problems are just as they are. Also, as I was saying earlier, some of the problems of the soldiers who were retired by the temporary 32th article added to the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act have been resolved, but not a serious part of the problem has been solved. For example, those who have been discharged from the army or retired by age decisions have been extradited by a law that has been passed, but no rights have been returned to those who have been retired or discharged from military service by executive records. It is said that the path of judgment is clear for you. Is it possible, especially in the days of the coup, especially in the courts under command, that a person who was discharged by the chief, who was retired by Resen, could claim his rights in that court? So thousands of resen retired people are now miserable and unaware of what to do. I'd like to tell you what they've been doing in Eskişehir for the last three days: officers retired and non-refundable officers, petty officers on hunger strike. With these problems in the open, it's impossible to ignore them. Let's answer these people's screams, these people's calls, let's make a sound. The solution to these problems is very simple. There are no serious costs to be put into this country's budget. Dear friends, we'll have our share of shame for having to solve the problems of people who have been on hunger strike for three days and who have been forced to search for their rights by hunger strike for at least this time and force them to solve their own problems with their own hunger strikes. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0013par0323	Thank you. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 21/05/2012 on Monday, the following proposals were deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's approval. Mustafa Elitaş Emine Ulir Tarhan Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Nationalist Movement Party Peace and Democracy Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Within 48 hours of the 248 drafted bill, which was distributed, the agenda was "Other Actions From Laws and Proposals" to the 2nd order of Section 2, which was found in this section again, 233, 17th, 7, 10, 108, 114, 206, 89, 90, 54, 16, 155, 195, 196, 196, 11, 11, 11, 13, 17, 28, 31, 98, and 34. The General Assembly's continued work until the meeting of the 248-line bill on Tuesday (May 22nd 2012) until the meeting of the 248th legislature, in the event that the daily programme cannot be completed at 2400 p.m., until the day's schedule is completed, It's the 91th Amendment of the 248th Amendment. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. How to Make Changes in Some Laws With the Military Law [[1/618]] 1. CHAPTER 1 - 30th Article 30 2. CHAPTER 31 to 56 (Addition 42) Connected by interim Articles 9,10,11 and 12 In addition to Frame 56, Article 28 and == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 3. Chapter 57 - Article 81 (Presistible to Article 58) Interim Articles 33 and temporary 34 (including Articles 34) 26 No promises. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect, I would like to submit my main law proposal (2/47) directly under Article 37 of the Civil Code. M. Akif Hamzacebi [[İstanbul]] On behalf of the bidder, Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP, please.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0014par0372	Mr. President, I stand before you in August 2011 regarding our proposed law, which has not been on the agenda of the commission, which has since been on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our proposal for the law envisions a total of 100,000-strong staff incursion to be used in the appointment of teachers, by adding a clause to the relevant laws, the Ministry of National Education, the Agency's Law, and the General Staff's Law. On the other hand, the need for teachers of the National Education has been on Turkey's agenda for a very long time, heavily, almost a problem of gangrene. On the one hand, hundreds of thousands of teachers who have graduated from university and have finished colleges and are waiting for their appointment need teachers from the Ministry of National Education, where there are schools for bilateral education, not only in East Anatolia, not in Southeast Anatolia, but even in İstanbul, where there are classes of 55-60. On the one hand, he needs an important teacher, and on the other hand, there's an important expectation that our hundreds of thousands of college graduates are waiting to be appointed teachers. To satisfy the need, the need for teachers and the expectations of our young people, our proposal for the law to balance these two needs and expectations together envisions violating a 100,000-strong staff. It will be remembered, while the 2011 budget was discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission, in November 2010, Mr. Nimet, who was then Minister of National Education, announced that 55,000 staff tenders were planned to be used for the appointment of teachers in the Chief 2011. Following the Minister's statement, the candidates of teachers who were waiting for the appointment went into great expectation, and they waited with great hope. Later, one of our former national education ministers, who was in charge of the party, said that this appointment would take place at one time and in August 2011, and our candidates began to wait to prepare for the KPSS test in early July 2011, but they did not comply with the announcements, nor were 55,000 teachers appointed, and on the other hand, 30,000 of the appointment said to take place in August 2011 was held before the elections, and all expectations were overturned. As a result, in 2011, a significant number of the contracts were appointed at three parties, including the transfer of tolls. Some of them are appointments for those who have been divorced. A total of 46,000 people have been appointed, and the commitment has not been kept. Teachers recently arrived in Ankara, met in front of the Ministry of National Education, announced their problems with a press release. This meeting was held on 15 May 2012 in Ankara, and teachers invited the government, Mr. Minister of National Education, to keep their promise. Those promises were not kept. This year, a number of appointments were made, but when we put the appointments on top of each other, when we consider the savings, expectations, and the need for teachers of the Ministry of National Education. So we propose that we pay off 100,000 staff members and assign these staffs to the post this year. Attention, Mr. Secretary, the government and the General Assembly. It's not a problem that can be pushed any further, but the teacher candidates are depressed, psychological problems, suicides are among them. There are those who can't stand the stress, who are sick, who are seriously ill, who have lost their lives, who are about to become another form, another problem. That's why we're asking for support in our offer. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0015par0378	Thank you. Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP on behalf of an MP.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0016par0381	Mr. President, I've been promised by Mr. Akif Hamzacebi, that the teachers who are waiting for his appointment will take office. I salute you all. Dear friends, when the Justice and Development Party came to power ten years ago, they pledged to appoint over 300,000 teachers waiting for it to be the first task. Currently, the overall situation is that around 300,000 teachers have been appointed in ten years, but 200,000 of them have retired. 200,000 retirees, 100,000 transfers. Now, Mr. Secretary is here. Mr. Minister, there has been an appointment of around 300,000 teachers in particular. It is called, 200,000 of which are retired, and 100,000 of which have been appointed. Here's the thing: right now, there's a lot of teachers waiting for him to appoint, so it's over 300,000. They called me yesterday, and even our Turkish teacher friends told me to put more weight on Turkish. In this sense, now, throughout Turkey, which is our eastern and southeast, there are teachers who are paid to appoint expert teachers. So our friends, who are not teachers, who are not experts, who have finished two years of college, who have finished college, and who may be high school graduates, are teaching at an additional salary. Now look, we're always last in college in all the provinces in that region, especially east and southeast. Why are we last in college? Because the attending teacher isn't going. Why isn't the attending going? There's no housing, there's no housing, there's no social opportunities. Now, in the west, a teacher receives a normal salary, in İzmir, in Afyon, in Mugla, in Antalya, in İstanbul, in Burma, in Balıkesir, in the teacher; in Kars, in Ardahan, in Iğdır, in Ağrı, in Erzurum, in Van. But a teacher who lives in Van, or lives in Kars, burns five tons of coal, my friends. Look, Minister, I want to draw a lot of attention to this, it burns five tons of coal. He gets the same salary there, the same salary here. So it doesn't stop there, the climate conditions are heavy, the geographical conditions are heavy, and they get the same salary. So there's an imbalance here, and there's a developmental imbalance between the regions. Then what do you have to do? I ask you, the cities that are top priority in development, the teachers and officers who go there must be paid a different price. At least 30 percent more pay than the teachers in the West, the officers in the West. Otherwise, no one leaves. So there's no housing, no social facilities, winter's heavy, seven or eight months of winter, the water's freezing, excuse me, the water's freezing in the toilet, the school's freezing, the school's already missing a number of things, the teacher's arrival is very important for safety, and there's transportation among the villages, you know that. Teachers in the east and southeast are driving from one place to another, which is a problem for safety, you know, many of our teachers have been martyred in that area. In that sense, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask Ardahan to come, and I'd be very happy to accompany him, but let our region of Turkey, especially in the east and southeastern part of the teacher deficit, calculate a certain portion of the budget and close this teacher deficit. Otherwise, what's going to happen? Why did we graduate these teachers from colleges? I mean, it costs so much government, it costs money to its own family. Teachers are now in classrooms, serving under minimum wage. It's a shame, these people are our people. At one point, I went to Batman with Mr. President. They said 327,000 people. Not 327,000, but 227,000, which is a huge number, my friends. If we are members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then if we are doing the budget, let the Minister recommend it, bring it, and we support it as opposition, and let these teachers who are expected to appoint it in absolute order, I give you all respect.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0017par0386	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0018par0387	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0017par0388	On behalf of the government, Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer has asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0019par0391	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, as I begin my words, I salute you with love and respect. This is a matter of teachers waiting for the appointment, and the issues brought up on the subject are indeed one of the major problems of our country. The matter of the teacher needs to be seen as something that we have to make a very rational decision on the national level. Taking into account teachers or teachers who are waiting to be appointed outside, politics on their multitude may, unfortunately, have consequences for the future, both the government and all the political institutions and the entire community. I'm going to respond to verbal questions in a moment, but I have to tell you right now there are about 247,500 people out there who are running for a teacher. According to the National Education Ministry's MEBIS system, the need for norm personnel is around 16,000 teachers in today's terms, so let's assume today that another 20,000 people will be put on top of what you're proposing, and if the teachers in need of the Ministry of National Education are in our staff, we'll still have about 120,000 candidates out there. How are you going to settle this? It's not a problem you can solve by taking a teacher. I'll tell you something else. Right now, in our education schools, in our science literature schools, and in other schools where there's a possibility of becoming a pedagogically formal teacher, our number of students is around 658, so 68,000 students are almost 1 million students when you put 247,500 students on it. For one thing, there's clearly a mental problem here. In no part of the world, university education is not intended only to raise vocational workers in specific areas. University education is used as a material used to improve the intellectual level of society, to improve education standards, to solve society's years of education, and to solve human development problems. Social education is a matter of quality of life. I'm afraid there may be a gun back in the future that's going back to you, a gun that's going back to the end of college, especially when it comes to teaching. So we have to sit down and rationalize this. And indeed, We are [also] those who calculate [it]. We're considering our budget balances. We're calculating the problems of our children outside. We're looking at our staff, and we're working as hard as we can. Today, I'd like to express that I'm pleased to welcome the motion you've made. Indeed, our hearts desire that this problem be resolved in some way. Like I said, it's not 100 grand. Let's get 120,000 teachers and that's it. But the next year, we'll only need teachers who are retired, about 8,000 people or 10,000 people. And then what?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0020par0396	Minister, 32 of them committed suicide.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0019par0397	So, friends, in this country, if you can only relate to the teacher about the problem you're talking about, you've made a methodological error. We have many similar problems in Turkey, and many of them have different reasons and reasons. A linear relationship between a teacher's candidate and suicide is not entirely scientificly significant.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0020par0398	What they left behind...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0019par0399	In this respect, I just want to say that our Treasury Department is working, preparing for the new staff. And when the preparations are made, We will bring it to you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0020par0400	You promised me 55,000.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0019par0401	Right now, there's more to the prospect of a June appointment in the community, many of our candidates are waiting for the appointment in June. And I want to say that this is not technically possible, that this year's casts were used in February -- all the staffs were given 17,000 positions -- but instead, if there is to be an additional staff, there should be a law. There will be a new law, and after the new law, we will publish our guides. We can't technically get teachers before August. And for that, I'm the one who's benefiting from waiting for the Ministry of Finance to prepare, and I'm paying all of your respects.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit01spe0021par0403	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree, those who refuse, there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit02spe0021par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision was not enough in the vote of the Republican People's Party Deputy Chair and İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial. Since there's been a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote with the electronics system. I'll give you two minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0021par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote by Republican People's Party Deputy Chair and İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi (Islamic Party Party Party Party) on the proposal to take it directly into consideration according to Article 37) of the Interior Charter was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, not enough motions. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. Congressmans, I'm here in the presentations department to read the oral question motions that Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer had asked to answer together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of the Interior İdris Naim Şahin. 15.7.2011 Many villages in Ardahan have water problems. Most villages in Ardahan are watered by electric motors. That's why they have trouble using water. The electricity of dozens of villages meets the need for water from wells and warehouses. But they can't use drinking water because the electricity bill is high and the villagers can't pay this high electricity bill. 1- The use of water from many villages in Ardahan comes from electric motors, which means the water bill is too high, which is why the villagers can't use water. Are you going to do a study to make sure the water bills are paid by the public? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 19.7.2011 The Ministry of National Education must first improve the physical conditions of the schools and immediately make the appointment of 150,000 teachers, which should also be appointed as a royal appointment of about 1,500 temporary branch managers in Turkey. The branch managers have 80% of their staff filled with temporary branch managers. 1- When will the physical conditions of all schools in Turkey be improved before the year of new education begins? 2- When will teachers, teachers, and teachers be assigned to the appointment, whose number is 380,000? 3- Turkey still has classes heated with turds. What will be done to make schools fit in with the needs of the age? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 18.7.2011 With new changes to be made, 75% of young people who will continue to study after comprehensive school will be directed to vocational schools, 25% to upper secondary schools we know as classics. Production technologies, information communication technologies are changing very rapidly, and this change is happening in a very competitive global environment that we are in. 1 - Is the decision to increase the number of students in vocational upper secondary schools to 74%? Isn't this going to be an unfair development? What will it mean for small - income parents' children to be educated in vocational schools and to be taught in classical high schools by rich parents? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that the following question be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Prof. Dr. Hülya Trust The development of basic rights and freedoms in our country requires serious and profound training in human rights to protect citizens' rights better. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948, and was adopted by our country by the Council of Ministers of 9119, dated April 6, 1949. But in our country's educational system, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is not taught enough. 1) Can primary school and upper secondary school syllabus include the "History of Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights"? 2) How and by whom will the curriculum be prepared if it can be placed? In what grade can these lessons be started? What's your ministry's approach to this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 16/8/2011 The Imam hatip high school, which has been tried to open in Ardahan Lakee district, is not yet fully available for education and training. High school's environment has not been done, nor has its toilets been completed. The high school has no fire escapes again. In this case, who will be responsible if a school is opened to education and there is a future setback? 1) When will the toilets of Imam Hatip High School be held in Ardahan Lake district? 2) When will the school's environment be completed in Ardahan Lake district? 3) Will the fire escapes of the school in Ardahan Lake district be completed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 28/07/2011 Erzurum University's student capacity was increased in September, when a new school year began. Therefore, an increase in teaching staff is expected. Again, a significant increase should be made in the dwellings of teachers. 1) The latest LYS exams have increased student capacity at Erzurum Ataturk University. Will the number of teachers be increased for this? 2) Since Ataturk University's student staff has been increased, will the students' housing be increased? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 28.7.2011 After the release of the latest LYS results, the number of students to be admitted to universities has been established. Anadolu University takes the most students. Ardahan University needs to increase student capacity this year. In Ardahan, the Lake and the Schools of Madness will be opened. Is there going to be a teaching staff appointment here? There must also be housing for teachers. 1 - Will Ardahan University's student capacity be increased? 2- Ardahan University Lake and Crazy Colleges of applied sciences will open. Will these universities of applied sciences be given a faculty staff? 3- Will the teaching staff at Lake and Crazy Colleges be housed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 28.7.2011 No serious work is seen in Ardahan, just before September, when a new year of education will begin. Studies are slow in order for the level of education in Ardahan to regain the level of other successful cities. 1- The backward education in Ardahan is known to stem from unified classes. Will the combined classes be abandoned? 2- How far will it go with transport training? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 25.7.2011 Our eastern and Southeast provinces are always at the bottom of Turkey's averages in the University exams. This year's LYS test results are the result of years of poor education with these failed results each year. 1-In order to achieve success in education, the MEB share must be increased. Is there going to be a Master's plan for resolving interstate imbalance? 3- Will every school in the South East have heating rooms? Will teachers who will serve 4-East and Southeast be assigned at least 3 years of mandatory service? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 25.7.2011 Ardahan is always the last to take the East and Southeast University exams, especially in our province. At the end of this year's LYS test, these failed results are the result of years of poor education. Our children, who we've tried to raise with a thousand efforts to cover their ears to the cries in the region, are suffering from failure to win the exams. 1- Will you do a study for the state to pay 50% of the tuition fees for students going to school in the East and Southeast, especially Ardahan? 2- Schools should be equipped with equipment labs and adequate equipment. It's not based on memory and test, but will the training for research be weighted? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 24.8.2011 In September, a new year of education and teaching began, Kars, Ağrı and Iğdır University had increased student capacity. Therefore, an increase in teaching staff is expected. The future of new teachers is expected. A study must be done to build new dwellings for new lecturers and to increase new dorm buildings due to student growth, and to expand the social areas of the university, particularly the library. 1- In recent LYS exams results have increased student capacity at Kars, Pain and Iğdır universities, will the number of teaching officers be increased for this? 2- Kars, will there be housing for new lecturers at Pain and Iğdır Universitys? 3- Kars, since new colleges are opening at Pain and Iğdır University, will there be renovations and growth studies in their libraries? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 22.8.2011 The year for education and teaching in 2011 and 2012 is short-lived. Körs, İğdır, Erzurum, Bayburt and Güverhane Province Centers are seen to be incomplete with the maintenance and repair of schools in districts and villages. The roads that allow access to the school with weeds and garbage around the schools have not been paved with hardwood tiles. 1- When will environmental arrangements be made for schools in the districts and villages, particularly the cities of Kars, Iğdır, Erzurum, Bayburt and Silverhane? 2- When will the schools in Kars, Iğdır, Erzurum, Bayburt and Silver Hall be repaired and maintained? 3- When will the smart board be applied to schools in Kars, Iğdır, Erzurum, Bayburt and Silver Hall? 4- Kars, Iğdır, Erzurum, Bayburt and Silverhouse are missing computer classes. When will the computer classes of these schools be completed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 22.8.2011 There are 171 elementary schools across Ardahan Province, 20 secondary schools, 4 independent Anadolu upper secondary schools. Nearly 16,000 elementary school students, nearly 6,000 middle school students and 2,500 pre-school students will receive education and will provide 1,320 teachers. There are many shortcomings in our schools. The major teacher's opening must be cleared up in the first place. Schools must be provided with tools and equipment. 1) Will Ardahan be appointed to compensate for the lack of major teachers who will teach and teach in Ardahan? 2) Will the maintenance and repairs of schools across Ardahan be made and environmental arrangements? Will the school roads be paved with hardwood stones or asphalt? 3) Will the lack of computer classrooms in our schools be satisfied? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that our following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 1) These days, when our schools began 2011-2012 education and education, how many schools in our country and how many classrooms in our schools continue to apply, and how are the distribution of these schools according to the provinces? 2) How many schools do the same practice in Istanbul's Albanian village, Hunters, Bağcılar, Baharlievler, Başakşehir, Beylikdüzü, Bakırçekmece, Esenyurt, Güngören, Küçükçekmece and Silivri districts continue in how many schools and how many of these schools? What are these classes as of county and school? 3) How many schools and schools do we have in our district of Çatkca and how many of our classes have combined classes? 4) How many schools, particularly the districts of Istanbul, have more than 50 and more than 50 students, and which ones are these schools? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that our following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 1) These days, when our schools began 2011-2012 education and education, how many schools in our country and how many classrooms in our schools continue to apply, and how are the distribution of these schools according to the provinces? 2) How many schools do the same practice in Istanbul's Albanian village, Hunters, Bağcılar, Baharlievler, Başakşehir, Beylikdüzü, Bakırçekmece, Esenyurt, Güngören, Küçükçekmece and Silivri districts continue in how many schools and how many of these schools? What are these classes as of county and school? 3- How many schools and schools do we have in our district of Çatinca and how many of our classes have combined classes? 4- How many schools, particularly the districts of Istanbul, have more than 50 and more than 50 students, and which ones are these schools? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 14.09.2011 Agriculture and animalism are very common throughout the provinces of Kars, Iğdır, Ağrım, Erzurum, Silverhouse and Bayburt. Many of our countrymen in these provinces have a livelihood based on agriculture and animalism. A certain portion of our country's need for meat is provided from these provinces. Again, a certain portion of our country's honey production is provided from these provinces. 1 - Life in Kars, Iğdır, Pain, Erzurum, Silverhouse and Bayburt is very difficult, and the only livelihood of our countrymen is livestock and agriculture. Agricultural vocational High School, which will be opened in these provinces, will be able to obtain more and more products consciously. Is this country gonna open up to agricultural vocational high school? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 8.9.2011 Starting in 2013 with your ministry's decision, all general upper secondary schools will be transformed into Anatolian upper secondary schools and vocational schools. In this scope, one of our high schools in Ardahan must be studied as an education student at the School of Justice Professionals or Health School of Education. A vocational upper secondary school in Ardahan and students across our county will be able to find work in the future and stop the migration from Ardahan. 1- Starting in 2013 as the Ministry of National Education, the general upper secondary schools throughout Turkey will be closed and will train under the name Anadolu High School or vocational High School. Are you going to have a study in Ardahan where one of the high schools will serve as Justice Professional High School or Health Career High School? The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light It is a fact that there are still many teacher shortages in our country, and there have been numerous promises made by both the Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of National Education, but hundreds of thousands of teachers have not been appointed for years. In regard to the exploiting of our young people's dreams, 1. Is it true that the teacher still expects to appoint 300,000 teachers in our country? Exactly how many of our non-assigned teachers are there? 2. What is the reason for the failure to keep the promise given by the former Minister of National Education, Mr. Nimet Chobukçuk, that "55,000 teachers will be appointed in 2011" before the election? 3. What work is done by your Ministry to fulfill this promise to our young teachers waiting for the appointment? 4. How does your ministry plan to appoint teachers from 2011 and 2012? The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light Like many other faculty graduates in our country, our youth graduates from the faculty of Communications are facing serious employment problems. As part of the second level of elementary school, the study of "Media Okumorybasis" as an elective was provided by the graduates of the Faculty of Communication; 1. In our country, in primary schools of your ministry, what field teachers teach the Media Readings class? 2. How many teachers are employed for this purpose? 3. Is there a work by your Ministry on the employment of our young people who graduated from this area being given by the graduates of the Faculty of Communication of Media Reading? 4. If so, where is the study? 5. Or can such a study be done? How does your Ministry feel about that? The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light Your ministry operates in central and rural services, general administrative services, technical services, assistant services and health care staffs, officers, drivers, servants, etc. In relation to the claims that staff is in worse position in terms of salary and autonomy rights, according to the equivalents of working in other ministries; 1. What is the reason why the grant given to our administrators and teachers in your ministry schools as "preparation for the school year" every year is not given to other staff members who work with the following staff titles? 2. Could the same grant be given to the people mentioned? 3. Is there a study in your ministry to improve the rights to salary and equity? 4. If so, what is the content and application calendar of the study? The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, at many universities, research officers who have been appointed under Article 50/D of Law 2547 are cut off from their staff when their doctoral training is completed. In this case, many of our young people who have grown up and have grown in their fields have been cut off from their universities due to lack of staff. On the subject of this matter, 1. How many Research Officers are still in our country who continue their PhD training in the Institute staff? 2. What are the numbers of students who have been cut off from their universities so far? 3. Under Article 50/d of Higher Education Law 2547, can it be made possible for our young students to continue their duties under Article 33/a of the same law if they apply at the end of their studies? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Hunt. Gürkut Acar 1-How many teachers have been assigned to serve for a fee in the last 5 years of teaching? For what reason are thousands of teacher candidates assigned lessons while waiting to be appointed? 2- What's the reason for the colleges to open a pedagogical formation program for other faculty graduates while they wait for the appointment of a degree in education? How will this practice benefit young people who are unemployed, other than their dream of teaching, and how will it benefit colleges? 3- Will you review your policies that leave young people unemployed, children without a teacher? What are you going to do to get results, since apologies haven't changed this painting? I hope my following questions will be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education. Yours truly. Is it true that in August 1st 2011, 55,000 teachers were appointed, but 11,000 teachers were appointed instead of 55,000? 2- Is it true that the next Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer, who made the commitment made by the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Turkey himself, stated that this promise would not be fulfilled? 3- Did Minister Hüseyin Çelik make a false statement when he told teachers that a special law had been issued on a TV show dated 11 March 2011, asking that the appointment date be moved forward on Mr. Chobuçuk's statement? 4-What are you going to do to compensate for the loss of 44,000 teachers who are still waiting for the appointment? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that the following question be answered verbally by Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Dr. Reşat Right The question is: Co-ordination appointments as the Ministry of National Education have been reduced once a year. The personnel are victims of this. At intervals, there are requests and complaints about two or more transfers per year. Do you plan to do this kind of work? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 18/10/2011 Yours truly. A number of changes have been made in the National Education Ministry's law with KH2, which took effect on 14 September 2011. This is the 37th CDC. The apology group has been arranged only once a year, only during the summer holidays. Can your ministry, which has not considered the impact of educational activities, explain its sensitivity to the apology group, while our teachers have waited years to be appointed, unemployed, and have been robbed of their labor by paying teachers? Isn't it traumatic to reduce the appointment of the apology group to one a year? Do you have a solution for children who live miles away from their father, who grew up apart from their mother? Will you be working on reassignmenting the apology group? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. ¤19/10/2011 Yours truly. 1. How many teachers who were unemployed and died of suicide due to their negative circumstances because they were not appointed in 2011? 2. How many teachers are appointed by 2011? 3. Is there a lack of teachers in our country in high schools and elementary schools? If there is a teaching deficit, why haven't there been 55,000 appointments promised by the nation's Minister of Education, Nimet Chubukukur? How does apologizing for unscheduled assignments contribute to the solution? 4. Instead of the 55,000 appointments promised in August, will 11,544 appointments in September be enough to cover the teacher gap? Why are teachers still employed at school? 5. What are the number of paid teachers working in our schools? Are you planning on making staff assignments instead of paying teachers? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 18/10/2011 Yours truly. On 14 September 2011, KHK No. 652 and the Ministry of National Education passed several changes in the agency's law. That's KHK's 37. The apology group has been arranged only once a year, only during the summer holidays. It's arranged to be done. Can your ministry, which has not considered the impact of educational activities, explain its sensitivity to the apology group, while our teachers have waited years to be appointed, unemployed, and have been robbed of their labor by paying teachers? Isn't it traumatic to reduce the appointment of the apology group to one a year? Do you have a solution for children who live miles away from their father, who grew up apart from their mother? Will you be working on reassignmenting the apology group? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 19/10/2011 Yours truly. 1. How many teachers who were unemployed and died of suicide due to their negative circumstances because they were not appointed in 2011? 2. How many teachers are appointed by 2011? 3. Is there a lack of teachers in our country in high schools and elementary schools? If the teacher has an opening, why haven't 55,000 appointments been made? 4. What are the number of paid teachers working in our schools? Are you planning on making staff assignments instead of paying teachers? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. A total of 11,354 teachers are trained in our Kahramanmarash province, 929 of which are under contract. The number of students per class is 25 before school, 38 in elementary school and 36 in high school. Therefore, the ongoing schools need to be completed immediately. 1. What is the total cost of public investment number 1995H020170 in the project, and the total cost of a 24-room and 200-student boarding house, Göksun Anadolu Teacher's High School (TOKİ)? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. A total of 11,354 teachers are trained in our Kahramanmarash province, 929 of which are under contract. The number of students per class is 25 before school, 38 in elementary school and 36 in high school. Therefore, the ongoing schools need to be completed immediately. 1. What is the total cost of project investment in project 1993H0200030? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? 01.12.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask the following questions to be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light In the course of your ministry, about the removal of the appointment of the apology group, which so far has been held during the February period, the allegations that many teachers had caused family drama; 1. What is the reason for the appointment of teachers who work for your ministry to appoint an apology group twice a year during the February term of your Ministry? 2. How many teachers do we still have in your ministry who have requested the appointment of an apology group? How are they distributed according to their co-existence or other apology groups? 3. Could the appointment of an apology group during February February be made in February 2012, even in limited quotas so far? 4. Is there a study conducted by your ministry? How does your ministry view the matter? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. It is of great importance to our province of Kahramanmarash, that the construction of the student housing and lodgings be completed and open to service. 1. What's the total cost of projecting the 1997H010270 public investment of the 300 student-capable Afsin Middle School Lodge (TOKI)? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. It is of great importance to our province of Kahramanmarash, that the construction of the student housing and lodgings be completed and open to service. 1. Public investment 1997H010270 is 260 males. And what's the total cost of the 240 girls-capable Kahramanmarash-centre Middle School Lodge (TİKI)? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. In terms of the integrity of the family, it is important for institutions to establish a marriage situation and an apology at certain times. 1. What circumstances include apology appointments? In this situation, how many days does the average teacher have to wait for the transfer? 2. For what reason is the previous two-year apology appointments for teachers now arranged once a year? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. A total of 11,354 teachers are trained in our Kahramanmarash province, 929 of which are under contract. The number of students per class is 25 before school, 38 in elementary school and 36 in high school. Therefore, the ongoing schools need to be completed immediately. 1. What's the total cost of projecting project number 1983H020010, 24-class Kahramanmarash-center Trade High School? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. A total of 11,354 teachers are trained in our Kahramanmarash province, 929 of which are under contract. The number of students per class is 25 before school, 38 in elementary school and 36 in high school. Therefore, the ongoing schools need to be completed immediately. 1. What is the total amount of project for project number 2008H010080, 24-class Kahramanmarash-center Elementary School (TOKI)? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. A total of 11,354 teachers are trained in our Kahramanmarash province, 929 of which are under contract. The number of students per class is 25 before school, 38 in elementary school and 36 in high school. Therefore, the ongoing schools need to be completed immediately. 1. What is the total amount of project in project number 1994H010080, the 16-class Göksun Anadolu High School (TOKI)? 2. How much resources have been transferred so far? When do you plan to finish this project? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 06/12/2011 Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu As part of the recent payment approach to equal work, it is understood that some public servants' salaries have been equaled, but the salary imbalance among teachers continues, compared to other public employees. 1- How do you assess the situation in which salaries paid to academics such as Istanbul, Ankara and İzmir, who are relatively difficult to make a living, are low compared to other provinces, and there is an inverse proportion between the conditions of living and wages? Do you intend to compensate for this pay imbalance? 2- Do you plan to improve the financial rights of teachers whose salaries are low compared to other public employees? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 06/12/2011 Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu As part of the recent arrangement and equal pay approach to work, it is understood that some public officials' salaries have been equaled, but the salary imbalance among faculty remains. 1 - Professional seniority, family status, and titles to academics (students, staffers, etc.) with the same title. What is the highest difference between November 2011 and paid salaries? 2- How much does my electoral district pay for vocational seniority, family status and titles for faculty members serving within Ankara's major city municipal borders, and for example the salaries paid to teachers of the same attributes at the Ağrı centre? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 07/12/2011 Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu The KHK No. 652 has been ruled for the summer of the transfers to the apology groups. It has also been repeatedly stressed by the Minister of National Education that it is not right for teachers to move to another school in the middle of the semester, for whatever reason. However, recent media reports have revealed that a transfer was made due to the condition of a teacher's partner. 1- 2011-2012, how many appointments have been made based on alibis during the training-school period? What are the criteria for these appointments? 2- What are the factors that can change your mind about mid-term/to-do assignments? 3- Do you plan to make an arrangement that will comfort teachers who set their condition for February 2012 to transfer? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. Teachers starting on 5 September 2011 find the two-year deadline longer and ask for the right to apply for the appointment of the apology situation in August 2012. 1. Do you plan to give these teachers the right to apply for an apology, thinking that two years of separation would undermine the family's foundation? Do you have any work on this? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. It has been determined by your Ministry that the budget has been divided into education at most in the 2012 budget talks. In this regard, there is hope that many innovations will take place, schools will receive better education, teachers will have better conditions. When we enter 2012, we have a lack of teachers in our schools, and the quality of education is reduced by employing paid teachers outside the major. With our schools in view, our teachers are still waiting for the appointment with very high scores; Is there a calendar set by your Ministry on the appointment of teachers? 2- Is there a need for teachers in our schools? If so, how much is the teacher's deficit set across Turkey? Is the promise of 3 to 55,000 appointments in 2011 going to be made this year? In what periods and how many teachers will be appointed in the year 4- 2012? 5- What majors are these assignments going to be in? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. They are the victims of the apology group of employees who work in banks and various rooms and are covered by an insurance agency outside the SGK. 1. Is that true? Why is insurance for employees in banks and various rooms not valid for appointing an apology group, such as the SGK? 2. How do you assess the fact that private insurance, such as motor vehicles and earthquake insurance, is not valid in the appointment of the apology group? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions will be answered verbally by the Minister of National Education, Mr. Omar Dinçer. 08.02.2012 1. How many teachers are left in Turkey after the newly appointed teachers? 2. If there's a teacher's gap, when do you plan to close it? When do you plan on appointing unregistered teachers? 3. What kind of work do you have as a ministry? When do you think you'll explain? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. While our teachers are waiting for the appointment, you say that the teacher's deficit across Turkey is 126,000. 1) When do you plan to close 126,000 teachers' deficits announced by your ministry for the whole of Turkey? 2) How many teachers do you plan to appoint in 2012? Will you have any work on the appointment in the coming days? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. The old highway construction site has been turned into a school in the village of Alinoluk in the village of Kahramanmarash Andirın. An elementary school is required in the village where the land is reserved. 1) Do you have a study of a new elementary school to replace the construction school in the village of Kahramanmarash Andırın Alonoluk? Do you have any work to do? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. Heromarash Equipment 80. The Year Elementary School needs maintenance and repair. However, because the building is too old, repairs cost too much, a new school is asked to replace it. 1) Heromarash Equipment 80. Are you going to repair the year elementary school, or are you going to replace it with a new school? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by National Education Minister Omar Dinçer. Yours truly. A elementary school to be held in Torlar village in the District of Kahramanmarash Andirın will meet the needs of 4-5 villages in the surrounding villages. 1) Do you have a study in the construction of elementary school in Torlar village in the District of Kahramanmarash Andirın? 2) When do you plan to build an elementary school in this village where land grants are ready? Do you have any work on this? Minister of National Education Omar Dinçer to respond to verbal question motions... Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0022par0455	Mr. President, I salute you all with love and respect as I begin my words. Before I begin answering my oral questions, I'd like to answer a verbal question directed to the Ministry of the Interior based on information given to me by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Mr. Ensar Öğüt has responded to Ardahan MP's (6/27) main question motion: The Ministry of Interior has reported that there is no work to pay the electricity bills used to supply drinking water in Ardahan on the issue, and I offer it to them. Highly valued friends of Kütahya MP Alim Izlut (6/211), Antalya MP Gürkut Acar (6/246), İstanbul MP Oktay Ekşi (6/250), İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi (6/382) and (6/930), İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu (6/386), Adana MP Ali Halaman (6/1148), İstanbul MP Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/114) and İstanbul MP Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/114). According to our ministry, on November 2, 2011, 102,809 teachers were appointed as teachers, including 62,064 teachers appointed as staffed teachers at their own institution, as part of the 800-strong appointment of teachers to the province of Van on November 2, 2011, and as part of Act 632. I repeat this briefly: in 2011, 102,809 teachers were appointed. In 2011, 40,745 teachers were also suspended. In 2010 and 2011, there are 247,543 potential candidates for teaching. Our ministry is trying to meet the need of education institutions by placing and reassignment under the quotas set in the area, according to norm staff criteria, at the extent of the budgetary capacity, each year by the Ministry of Finance. A total of 15,934 staffed teachers were appointed on 3/2/2012, which is in February 3 (February 3). According to MEBSIS norm processing module data, dated 30/4/2012, dated 30 April 2012, our ministry needs a total of 116,005 teachers at our ministry's official educational institutions. In my speech on the start of the 2011-2012 education-school year, I also mentioned the appointment of 55,000 teachers. My statement on this issue continues on the website of our Ministry. The need for teachers is primarily provided for by staffed teachers of our ministry's official educational institutions. In cases when it cannot be met with the appointment of a staff teacher, its legislation on how education and education can be continued without fail is provided for by the district or by the district's national educational directorates for tuition fees. In this area, 55,786 and 61,551 during 2009-2010, 61,551 during 2010-2011, 65,485 during 2010-2012, and 53,453 paid teachers were appointed according to our appointment module data. In addition to the power vested in by the budget laws, total teachers' staffs, given permission to use by the Ministry of Finance, are being distributed to the boroughs of teaching directorates, while the municipal national education directorates determine areas assigned to their districts and educational institutions for which those assigned to these areas will be assigned to them. These designated educational institutions are reflected in the system during the appointment period, or are presented to the preferences of teachers who will be appointed or replaced. This framework will be set up for the appointment of the Ministry in August 2012, with the necessary planning of the districts and areas in need of teachers. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu's (6/363), İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi (6/385), Kütahya MP Alim Ilk (6/608), Kahramanmarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu's (6/616), (6/890), (6/1093), Ankara MP Zühal Topcu (6/682) and Ankara MP Zühal Topcu (6/682) are the answers to the main questions: In the third joke of Article 37, titled "Atama" of Article 652, teachers serve at least three years in the ministry's service, districts or areas. Their transfers are concluded in a way that does not affect education and education activities within the framework of each year's appointment plan and programmes. According to the ministry-setted apology groups, the changes take place during summer holidays. In the fourth and fourth joke, basic principles, apology groups, service areas and areas, service points and other issues are determined by the regulations of the rules. Starting in 2012, the procedure of replacing the teacher's apology situation will be carried out under the regulation that will be carried out by drafting these provisions through the above provisions to 14/9/2012. Again, regulations on the implementation of the Constitution under this Law shall be put into effect within a year. Until these provisions are carried out, these provisions of the existing regulations will be carried out under these provisions that do not violate the provisions of the Law. In addition, the application was adopted from December 19 to December 28, 2011, on December 9, 2012, for those of our teachers who served as partners in the Ministry's official educational institutions to avoid any harm done by the State of the Law, on December 31, 2012, and on the terms of their wife's insurance terms, as of December 31, 2012. Between 1/1/2011-20/12/2011, a total of 36,550 teachers were replaced, depending on 939 health apology, 32.010 equivalent apology, 3,061 student apology and 540 general and private lives. In addition to the preference of an educational institution for our teachers, the municipality with which there is no education institution or sufficient education institutions or the appointment of its preferred educational institutions has been granted the right to request the appointment of the district's national educational directorate to be appointed later. Apology has also taken place in the 2011-2012 education courses of the eastern and Southeast Anatolian provinces -- including Bayburt and the Ottoman provinces alone -- from 1/9/2011-26/12/2011 to 13 health pardons, 44 from the spouse's condition, 44 from the general and private life, as well as 89 teachers, including the victims, and 32 others. What I want to point out here is that all of the changes to this teacher's location are in 2011, and the appointment of a similar apology group in 2012 will take place in August. Heromarash MP Mesut Dedeoğlu (6/597), (6/598), (6/614), (6/618), (6/647) and (6/650) are the answers to the main question motions: According to additional coursing rates for the construction of Göksun Anadolu Teacher's High School, the project price for the construction of 5m,276,290 Turkish lira, the project price of the Central Industry Professional High School, 4m8,880 Turkish lira for construction of 4m880 Turkish liras, the project price of the Afsin Middle School building 2,182,209 Turkish liras, the project price for the construction of the Central Central Central Central Medieval Pancium, 4 million 309,200 euros for the construction of Turkish Trade High School, 2 million, 2 million, 2 million Turkish projects, 225 euros are set at the price of the project. At the same time, it has been reported by TOKI that the construction of Göksun Anadolu High School is in preparation for the tender. In addition, the amount set aside from the central management budget for TOKI is being transferred to TOKI on a three-month basis, in three-month period, and the project-based grant plan is made by TOKI. Mesut Dedeoğlu of Kahramanmarash MP (6/1514), (6/1518) and (6/1524) are the main question proposals: According to Kahramanmarash Governorate, Andırın district of Torlar and Alinoluk villages were made of primary education and Ekinözü district 80. Construction of the new building will be included in the 2012-2014 three-year investment plan and will begin on the basis of budget opportunities. Ankara MP Zühal Topcu (6/680) and (6/681) answer the main question motions: Regarding the issue of the chairmanship of the Higher Education Board, it is stated that the process of meeting legal regulations with the Ministry of Finance will be carried out in conjunction with the ongoing work launched by academic and administrative staff in higher education institutions aimed at improving their financial and autonomy rights. In addition, the difference between the salary of a faculty member serving in Ankara and a professor serving in Ağrı Center (Ağrı), whose family status and titles are the same, is that there is a difference between the payment of development at Ağrı Central (Ağrı); the difference is 2.546 lira 15 cents, 2.030 Turkish lira at the professor's office, and 49 cents at the assistant doctor's office. İstanbul MP Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu (6/133) and İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi (6/134) are the main question proposals: there are 305,201 students in the Turkish elementary school school with a combined class of 305,201 students as of the 2011-2012 school year. There are 58 students at two schools in the district of Albanianköy in Istanbul, 272 students at 10 schools in Çatkca district, 24 classes combined with 24 students at 2 schools in Silivri district. There are 24 schools in Istanbul with 50 and more students per primary school. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/31) answers the main question motion: New school construction continues to improve physical infrastructure throughout Turkey. Each year, according to Elementary and Education Law 222, the situation is being worked to improve by the governorates at its location and by the ministry's planned investments at the centre. According to Law 222, construction, tasting, major repairs, all kinds of first facilities, school equipment, land applications, land supplies, funds from our ministry, and funds from the state's private administration budget have been earmarked as part of the other funds of the first education and pre-school construction budget, and has been earmarked by the governorates in the area of the Legislative Court, which has been earmarked for over 56,000 euros in 2011. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/32) responds to the main question motion: The vocational and technical education rate in policy documents is aimed at up to 65 per cent of the share in secondary education. In the National Education Ministry's 2010-2014 strategic plan, it has been set as a strategic goal to increase the level of vocational and technical education in secondary education to at least 50 per cent by the end of the planning period. On the other hand, our understanding of governance is not elitist, but an understanding that embraces all our citizens under the 10th article of our Constitution. The applications for the services provided by our ministry are also done with this understanding, and the opposite assessments are not related to the truth. In addition, all general upper secondary schools will be converted to kindergartens and vocational schools starting in 2013, starting with the decision of your ministry, which is the number-one-numbered question motion referred to by the MP (6/147) to our Ministry. In this scope, one of our high schools in Ardahan will also have to study education as a law vocational upper secondary school or health vocational high school. A vocational upper secondary school in Ardahan will cause our students across our province to find jobs in the future and to stop migration from Ardahan. The accuracy of the study of vocational and technical education in secondary education has been confirmed. İzmir MP Professor Hülya Güvenin (6/46) responds to the main question motion: One of the eight intermediary disciplines involved in primary education is citizenship and democracy education. The subjects of this include intensive life information and social information classes. It is also being taught as a mandatory course in primary education in citizenship and democracy education -- eighth grade -- and has achievements and activities in human rights history and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Middle secondary school institutions also have a class elective class under the name "democracy" and human rights. The issues related to the development of basic rights and freedoms and the better rights of citizens are also considered to be an example of democracy and human rights classes, as well as of Turkish literature, geography, philosophy, history, faith history and patriarchy and teaching programmes, unit, achievement and activity. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/62) responds to the main question motion of Ardahan Governor's office: Regarding the issue, it is said that the toilets were used on the day the school was opened to education and that there was no problem at the moment, that the necessary arrangement was made in the school yard and that there was nothing negative for the students, and that the fire ladder was built in the school building. The answer to Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/65)'s main question motion is: In writing on the issue taken from the chairman of the Board of Higher Education, in addition to the Fifth Amendment on the use of the staff of the Central Management Budget Act in 2011, the university's number of professors who left the university in 2010, 50 per cent of the number of students who were separated from the university and the number of students who were assigned to it in 2010, they could receive an open or transfer lecturer from the university in addition to an additional eight thousand additional staffs, as part of which were given to all universities from 11/5/2011, as part of which they had been appointed by university rectors in the 2010, as part of this year, and as part of which they would not exceed 100 per cent of the training staff. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/66)'s main question motion (6/66) is: The 2010-2011 student capacity, as of the year of education and education, was increased by 800 students in the 2011-2012 school year, where education activities were started at Lake and Crazy University School of applied sciences, where a total of nine teachers were taken to Lake and University of applied sciences, including four to the Lake. It is stated that there is a plan to build housing for the housing of lecturers in the districts. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/68) answers the main question motion: Turkey's social, economic and geographical conditions make it mandatory for the combined class. Almost all European Union countries have combined classes in countries such as the United States, Japan and Canada. On the other hand, the combined class application is being implemented in all our regions. The number of students must be carried in order to ensure the access of mandatory student students to the school, which is not sufficient for school building. Therefore, transport education will continue throughout the country. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğüt (6/78) responds to the main question motion...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0023par0488	Mr. Secretary, please complete.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0022par0489	Let me finish this answer, Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0023par0490	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0022par0491	As our ministry's budget is being drafted, the mid-term financial plan, which includes the public administration's funding bases, along with total revenues and expense projections for the next three years, is open and in debt. Our ministry's Strategic Plan 2010-2014 has set goals for resolving regional differences in schools and institutions in our ministry. Our ministry's investment programmes are being prepared by prioritizing the GAP and DAP provinces to address intergalactic imbalances. According to the appointment and replacement regulations of the National Ministry of Education Teachers, teachers who serve at the official educational institutions of our Ministry meet mandatory service obligations in the areas of service four, five and six, and the mandatory service years vary from three to seven years, depending on the degree of deprivation of the educational institution. It is also the basis for the service of teachers appointed by the Ministry of the Ministry to serve for at least three years in the area or in the fields of education and teaching, in Article 3 of the Law on the State and Missions of the Ministry of the National Education Ministry, which entered into force on 14/9/2011. An update on the appointment of the National Ministry of Education Teachers, who are still in effect under the Statement of the Law Law, is also under way. I thank you very much and give you all my regards.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0023par0494	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, Mr. Trust, Mr. Halaman, Mr. Dedeoğlu and Mr. Öğur, you may ask for a brief explanation of the answers. Here you go, Mr. Trust.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0024par0497	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you have stated that democracy and human rights courses in middle school are elective, and human rights courses are held in eighth grade. With this 4+4+4, how will these lessons be taught if the student in the new system drops out after the first four years of school? In addition, is the Democratic Citizenship and Human Rights Education Project, planned in 2009 with the support of the European Union and under 9m100,000 euros, under way? Has the pilot application to be given in this framework been implemented in the 2010-2011 education-education year? In which cities has the pilot been applied?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0025par0501	Thank you. Mr. Eyeborn, you're in the system, but I can't promise you that you don't have any questions.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0026par0503	I don't understand, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0025par0504	Mr. Eyeborn, since you have no questions, I can't promise you. Our practice here is that the questioners ask for a new explanation of the Minister's statement again. Here you are, Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0027par0506	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers, God bless you, but I have a reference to this answer: teachers who can't be assigned to us in Adana, who are waiting for assignments, who are mostly farmers, who drive tractors, who grease harvesters, who work on it, who work with their father. These unassigned teachers now say: "Our appointment, our appointment, is not being made, but when is the harvest coming, and when will this base price be announced? We can't, at least today there's this wheat harvest about farming, so let's explain the prices. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0028par0509	Thank you. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0029par0511	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Secretary has answered our questions, and I'd also like to thank him. However, the situation is that Kahramanmarash is number 18 in the 81st province of Turkey. Kahramanmarash is at the end of 81 counties as a classroom and success rate. When are we going to get this class issue and our teacher short? However, there is a small number of disabled schools in Kahramanmarash, and when do you plan to appoint non-assigned teachers, including all of Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0030par0514	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0031par0516	Thank you, Mr. President. I invite the Minister to Ardahan. Hopefully, they'll have their own schedule, but I'm guessing you'll pay an additional fee to the teachers who work in the East and the Southeast to rescue Ardahan and East Anatolian from exile? Because winter conditions and geographical conditions are very heavy there. They get the same wages as the teachers in the West, they get paid more in the West, and they have social facilities, and if they have housing, then teachers will volunteer to go to East and South East, otherwise East and Southeast will not be a place of exile. We need your help with that, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0030par0518	Thank you, Mr. Öpün. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to make a statement, please, from the stand.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0520	Thank you. Mr. President, dear friends, I may have misunderstood about the lesson of democracy, so please correct me - how will he learn this lesson if he leaves after the first four? It's not even theoretically possible because after 12 years of forced education, not only after the first four, children will be forced to study until they finish high school, and we don't already take these classes out of our curriculum, and we don't change them. Therefore, the children will continue to learn their lesson in the classrooms that I have given you, whether it is mandatory or optional, where there is no change. We're also continuing our work as a European Union project on the democracy and human rights curriculum you're talking about, and we're going to make the kind of change that will fit in with our curriculum when it's finished, after this is finished. From this point of view, there are no complications in the matter. About the teachers waiting for the appointment, I'm afraid I haven't been able to record the name of one of our deputies again, and the teachers waiting for me are working with their parents, and they're farming... they asked for the price of the base. As a matter of fact, since it's not about me directly, I'd like to ask him to ask our minister about it. The question is, when will the number of classes and the lack of teachers be completed? Very dear friends, in fact, it may be misleading to say something about the number of classes and the need for teachers that will be completed at this time, but we've made a new arrangement, especially for the completion of the number of classrooms and the rapid repair of equipment, with your support. And he's, you know, so far, we've only been able to use the investment budget for investment projects, given to the Ministry of National Education, and we've also been trying to meet our need for lessons with the support of philanthropists. In the future, we will be able to use two very modern new financing routes to meet the need for lessons. One of them is a public-private partnership, one is a rental. In public-private partnership, we think that, for example, in your province, the Marashanta district, Ardahan. Let's say that whatever school that district or central residential unit needs, all of them will be divided into one campus at a time, all of which will have a project set up, all of which will be tendered, and we will include private sector capital in this process. They're going to create physical infrastructure and offer other services for education, and we're going to do education there, and so we're planning to solve infrastructure problems for education faster. This is in your memory, if you motivate our chiefs of territorial education on the subject in your provinces, I think we'll have a quicker chance of solving it. The question again is, when will the lack of a teacher be completed? I'd like to say this again, so I'm going to shout out to our teachers or to our young people who want to be teachers, who, in some way, need 16,000 teachers. Whether it's two years, three years, or one year, we're going to need 8,000 to 10,000 teachers a year after we've covered it, for those who are retired and for those who have moved to other institutions. The problem of the National Ministry of Education in Turkey will no longer be a large amount, as we are now too close to the limits of schooling. Even now, 247,500 teachers are waiting. I repeat, we have children who can be teachers and teachers. He's only studying at education schools for nearly 200,000 students. When you put it all on top of that, it would be the worst thing to do for our children to be channeled into the state of all the motivations for these people to become teachers, and to have them do politics on the subject without any alternatives other than their teaching profession. I'm asking you, 360 thousand teachers have been taken for ten years.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0033par0527	You've been in power for ten years, Mr. Secretary! You plan this, we plan this!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0528	Guys, I repeat, we've had over 320,000 teachers in ten years, but...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0033par0529	We're about to cry about you! It doesn't work like that, Minister. Children commit suicide. Have you read the suicide letters?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0530	No, I'm talking about a mentality there, not a thing. I'm trying to tell you that studying at the university in Turkey, graduating from the school of education, is not something to be motivated by saying that I'm going to be a teacher in the state.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0034par0532	Please don't let them ask for three children from each family!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0533	Do all the university faculty graduates do journalism in this country? All those who graduated from business school, marketing, all those who graduated from finances, work at the Treasury Department? From this point of view...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0034par0534	Mr. Secretary, he wants three children in each family, Mr. Prime Minister!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0035par0535	Mr. Secretary, please wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0536	Employment is a different matter, but it's the kind of motivation that makes everyone become teachers, and it's the wrong thing to do with politics. That's what I'm trying to say. Besides...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0036par0538	Sir, you promised, you aired these kids out.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0539	We keep our promises. Mr. Öpün would have had more money for employees in the East and the Southeast, and questions about their failures in this regard. I'd like to say that politics is being done through teachers. ▪ When will there be a family appointment? When's the apology due? Wow, sir, when will your teacher be transferred? Also, politics is being done by teachers who are waiting to be appointed, but I want to tell you something:
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0037par0543	Mr. Secretary, you're doing politics on the appointed ones! That's a problem, don't you think we should talk about it?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0544	Is it just a teacher, friends, that's the element of an educational system? Students, the physical possibilities, syllabus and so forth that you've just mentioned, I'm telling you that there's been a story in one of our newspapers in the last few days about students who had zeroed out after the YGS exam, and one of the kids was saying to them after the question they were asked, "Don't you give a damn, don't you listen to it?" In five years, I changed seven teachers, and what success do you expect from me?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0038par0545	You've been running it for ten years, and we're running it? You should've changed it for ten years.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0032par0546	I expect you to recommend that we do politics through the teacher, that our teachers remain successful where they are, that our children are not left without a teacher in the classrooms. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0039par0549	Well, don't be dirty with the bidding on education.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0040par0550	Mr. Secretary, that's not the style of the Minister of National Education.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0039par0551	You raised your hand on a 20-billion-dollar Ranta on a tablet computer.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit03spe0041par0552	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The question motions have been answered. Congressmans, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0041par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. 1st ranked Justice and Development Party Chairs İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will begin the talks where we left to talk about the changes in the Institution of Turkey's Grand National Assembly; and Tunceli MP Kamer Yün. VII-KAN'S PLANS AND COMMISSIONS Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Military Law and the National Defence Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 248 rows. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be discussed under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been completed and passed on to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Koray Aydın, Tripoli MP, please come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] (x) 248 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0042par0019	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the draft of the Military Law 248 and the Amendment to some Laws. On this occasion, I salute you all. A series of innovations are being made regarding drafting procedures, delays, medical examinations and military judiciary, and some improvements are being made in the rights of petty officers, special police officers and experts. Before the bill came to the Commission, our preliminary consultation meeting brought up expectations, demands and proposals. National Ministry of Defence officials have said the bill is more for the rights of authenticity, and they are working to arrange demands for education and social rights with a separate bill. I wish that the bill on education and social rights, which is as important as the regulation on autonomy rights, should be brought to the agenda of Parliament as soon as possible. Mr. President, the Turkish army is the embodiment of the Turkish nation. The arrangements for our soldiers who put their lives on the line for the sake of the country, the nation, and the mission have to be carried out quickly. In this regard, it is vital that the ruling and opposition act in a large consensus, harmony and co-operation in the arrangements for the Turkish Armed Forces. In the national Defence Commission, the bill was finalised by motions on self-importance rights, setting a level of approach to the ruling opposition co-operation as an example. Thus, an eighty-one-point bill was adopted in the Commission in about two hours. He cares about this approach, and I sincerely hope he'll set an example for other arrangements. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the bill that we've discussed has been made with some regulations and improvements regarding the rights of our petty officers, our special police officers, and the rights of our senior officers. There's no need to count all of this one by one. However, I would like to bring to your attention some legitimate demands and expectations that have never been mentioned, even though this bill should be resolved. Unfortunately, the solution to the compensation and military problems of our military students is not in the bill. Several military students and their families expect an application in parallel with reductions in compensations and pardons for other students. We can't ignore all these expectations. National Ministry of Defence officials have reported that regulations for military students are being worked as a separate bill, just like regulations for education and social rights, but no clear date for the bill has been given. This bill must be prepared and brought up immediately. When the bill that we discussed came to the agenda, our petty officers, our veterans, our veterans, and our military students were rightly expected. In fact, in parallel with these expectations, our Chief of Staff, the Turkish Armed Forces, with the intention of keeping the moral and motivation of their dedicated and heroic members connected to each other at the highest level, will continue to make the arrangements that are needed and within our government's authority, with a detailed explanation. It is imperative that the government show political will and determination to make these arrangements. Mr. President, I would like to stress once again that we, the National Movement Party Group, are ready to give the necessary support and contribution to the rights of our military personnel, as well as to all the arrangements that we see in the interests of our nation. We, the National Movement Party, are on the side of resolution and compromise! Our goal is not to beat up the farmer, but to eat grapes. In this regard, I suggest that the ruling party group and representatives of the government listen to our constructive criticism. We see and love all the employees of the Turkish Armed Forces as one with no distinction. As with many institutions, our military can also employ staff in various statuses, a difference from status, of course. However, institutions must ensure work peace, respect the principles of equality and justice. As it is known, the bill we have discussed has not met the right demands and expectations for the rights of our specialists. The additional indicator for all Turkish Armed Forces employees has not been given to our experts, whose number is around 50,000. Again, the unfair practice of additional compensations for our experts' flying, parachutes, submarines, divers and frogmen's services continues. The additional compensations paid to employees who do the same service and take the same risks should of course be the same. A similar set of regulations is still in effect, and these regulations are primarily against the principle of equality in our Constitution. To find and correct these contradictions and ensure justice is the primary duty of this Parliament and especially the ruling group, which holds the majority. This injustice cannot be maintained, given the fact that our experts are contractable, that their number will be 50,000, and thus that the arrangements to be made will bring additional burden to the budget. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, who put thousands of contracted staff working in various positions of public opinion, can also put the experts on staff and solve the problem at the root. It's already understood from the way that our attendings don't meet the need if Law 3269 is examined. The changes in almost all articles of Specialist Private Law 3269 have been made, but Law 3269, despite all changes, is still far from meeting expectations, demands, and needs. Hence, he now has the obligation to put a scalpel in the wound and make a radical change. In this regard, the Ministry of National Defence must quickly submit the arrangement to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which will ensure that the chiefs of staff be put into office, taking into account the views and sensitivities of the General Staff. I hereby declare that we, the MHP Group, are prepared to make any contribution and support to such a bill. I've already told you, we don't want to beat up the farmer, we want to eat grapes. In this regard, we are determined and determined to maintain our sense of constructive and guiding opposition. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to give you a striking example: an additional compensation is being paid to military personnel assigned to flight, dive and jump services only because of their service. So let's all think about it, three separate military personnel parachute out of a plane; the plane is the same, the parachutes are the same, the height is the same, and the risk is the same, but we pay one of these staff 100 units, 60 units and the senior officer 30 units. Can there be such a sense of justice? The same is true of diving, submarine, diver and frogman services. As we express it, we would like to see our officers, our petty officers, our veterans, and our senior officers meet their rightful demands. Take it from one person to another. We don't say, "Give everyone their dues fairly." I'd like to bring another example to your attention: Specialists, as they do in many classrooms, are also serving in the General Command of the Gendarmes. In the same command, the veteran gendarmes and experts who perform the same tasks have different status and autonomy rights. It undermines the peace of working and peace of mind. What needs to be done is to equalise the status of the staff who do the same work and, therefore, the salaries. The government must not address the squares to military personnel who work hard just as it did to the officers at the conference table. Now, both the officers and the retired head of staff and their families are preparing to land in the square. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have no excuse, including the limited budget opportunities, for improvements regarding the rights of our military personnel and police working to capitalize their lives. In this regard, additional indicators should be cut off from the limitations of our petty officers, our specialized gendarmes, and our police officers, and our experts should be given additional indicators that they deserve; otherwise, the increases remain at a very funny level. For example, members of the class of law enforcement can rise to the very last level of the 1st degree, as we all know -- in relation to the staff in law enforcement -- to the last degree of Article 657. Police personnel are already down to the fourth level of the first degree while still working, but this is not reflected in their pension, they can retire from the third degree while retiring, and their salary drops by 50 percent after retirement. With this arrangement, these police will be given 3,600 additional indicators to compensate for their victims, allowing them to be even with other institutions. Dear friends, I would like to hope on behalf of all our police friends that our ruling party will provide an understanding that will solve this, especially considering our Prime Minister's commitments for ten years. Dear friends, as the MHP Group, I have made it clear that we will support any proposal for improvements on this law in the General Assembly, and we will oppose the motions to limit and reverse rights. As I end my words in these feelings and thoughts, I salute you all on behalf of the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0043par0037	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0044par0039	Mr. President, we have taken a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the draft bill to change some laws under the Military Law 248 rows. We salute you all. First of all, I'd like to point out here that this bill brings together different issues as a bag of laws. Military branches are being removed from one side of the country, and when military branches are removed, there are different questions in the minds of citizens all over the country: "How many miles will we go to get a military document? " I don't know, how many miles will we go in a roll call? In this regard, it appears, the Ministry itself has used discretionary authority, and I am removing the polls as part of the E State Project, which will not be necessary for military branches. That's why I'm going to remove the military branches in time. There's a bill with an understanding and an administrative savings of the government here. From time to time, we're looking, when you compare a district with 100 villages and a district with 10 villages, you see that one of them, 100 villages, the military branch of 100 villages, has been removed, and a smaller district with 10 villages, has a military branch. This is a matter that will leave questions and debate among the public in the future. I'd like to underline that first. Now, there's the subject of a medical examination system with obligations. Reports from family medicine are said to be processed in these matters of military service. The practice of family medicine did not sit regularly in Turkey. Friends, the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines talks about its problems, all health organizations tell about it, the unions tell about it. What city did family practice regularly live in? And then, the officer, who's been assigned, who goes from place to place every two years, the family doctor, who keeps changing, the paramedics, the teachers, the workers, the financial workers, what family physician are you talking about? They'll have family doctors every two years. Okay, you're going to say, "This is a citizenship wallet number." It's not a system, guys. What a healthy outcome this system has to offer, we have reservations here. It is suitable for military service, it is not... I mean, it used to be called the razzle-dazzle report. The issue is that family medicine reports will be based on its reports and will be evaluated by the parliament there by the district or district parliaments. There's no opening on that. I don't know, maybe it's a government wing habit, it'll bring up a bill, and when it's about the armed forces, no one will talk, no one will dare talk, no one will be criticized; whether it's right or wrong, it won't be spoken. However, 75 million people in this country are facing military service. Everybody's having these problems. If he's alive, then it's the duty of all parties to discuss the truth. I understand that parties don't have the courage to discuss such a thing. It's a habit, it comes to commissions, it passes in two hours, it comes to Parliament two days later. And in the House, there are a few motions that come right after him to correct the wrongs. You'll soon see the motions. When we're on the way here, the bill proposals come from behind. If there's such a sloppy, irregular arrangement, it'll be questioned, my friends. One more thing: equality, promotion in the profession, seniority, etcetera, these are technical issues, separate issues. There's a section on military jurisdiction. There are regulations for the military judiciary as a result of the annulment of the Constitutional Court due to decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights. There's a provision for the trial. What's the rush, guys, when you're organizing the trial? I'm asking: Now, the European Court of Human Rights said that since the Supreme Court does not issue a notice, the right to defend is restricted. That's why it's wrong. Change the order. Before him, the Constitutional Court has made a decision regarding the military judiciary, regarding the special positions of military services. Here is a subject of the European Convention on Human Rights. Aren't we building a new constitution, guys? Aren't we going to discuss our judicial issues in a new constitution? It's a matter of unity of judgment. There's a precedent for that. Military judicial institutions are being removed, and they're all being merged into the Supreme Court. The judicial union debate of a constitution is just as important as the Prime Minister's presidential system. Then why are you in such a hurry, the European Court of Human Rights is in no hurry. There's no hurry for such an arrangement until the end of this year. But the Constitutional Court called it off and gave it a year. Let's take this out before the end of the year. You take it out, and then we'll make a new constitution. Our Compromise Commission works. Friends, the parties must warn the government of the fundamental issues of the Constitutional Compromise Commission. You have no right. You're making this mistake over and over again. When you break the law, no one gets caught by you. We've never seen a prosecutor so brave, we've never seen a prosecutor who's going to make a statement to one of them. Anybody see that, fellas? Since 2002, prosecutors have worked only for the BDP, the Peace and Democracy Party. You don't work all your shifts... and you don't work all your overtime, but they're working overtime again. They sent us 700 of them. Every one of them has become a professional journalist. Next thing you know, you're going somewhere... ten cameras at a rally last night. He said the press was very interested, but then they were all members of the police. Officers, ten cameras, open their wallets, one press card in each of their pockets, tracking, tracking, sending to the Home Office. There's no need for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, from the police department to the district attorney's office, the prosecutor's office is making the statement on the computer, the prosecutor's office is saying, "Well, instead of the commissioner, he's writing his number, he's putting his number down, and he's making the indictment. In such an approach, we will discuss military custody. We'll discuss being under the command of the armed forces of civil authority. I ask you, this bill has been discussed. I had a legal proposal for the removal of Article 35 of the Internal Service Law, which is the basis of the blows. Why didn't you put it in this one? That's what I'm asking. I mean, why didn't you put it there? Mr. National Defense Commission, why don't you put our proposals on the government's relevant bill? Are you opposed to Article 35, or are you not? If you were against it, you'd put it in there, you'd take it out. You're not taking it off. Now, is the Department of National Defense above or below the General Staff, friends? I'm asking you. We're making the Military Code. Is he the Chief of Staff or the Secretary of Defense? In democracies, the Chief of Staff depends on the Ministry of National Defense? Since it's with the Ministry of National Defense, the Minister of National Defence, as his minister of the Ministry, will account for it as an institution. What's with us? It's up to the Prime Minister. What kind of democracy is that? It's called militant democracy, military custody itself. Do you do that? No. Do you refer the General Staff to the Ministry of National Defense? No. Why does the General Staff depend on the Prime Minister? Is my brother the Chief of Staff? We told them what the TOKI empire was. What's the General Staff doing in the Prime Minister's office? President General Commander-in-Chief, the Prime Minister of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, but is it up to the President of the Prime Minister? Look, there's something called logic. When we don't question them, when we don't talk about them, we can't go into a democracy, friends. Tell you what? Mr. Prime Minister is in a difficult situation today because all of this has been mixed up, are you aware of that? Look, we've lost 34 lives in Uludere. It's been a hundred and forty-five days. A hundred and forty-five days have passed, and the matter has been decided, and one man in a hundred and forty-five days has not been called to the servant of God. The Parliament's Human Rights Commission is calling, the Ministry says: "The investigation is confidential, I can't give you any information." For hours, the members of the Heron Commission of Human Rights are watching their footage, and they all say: "This is a smuggling caravan, obviously, gone." Then, a story breaks out in a Wall Street Journal newspaper: did the Predator give you the news, or was it taken out of a military aircraft?" Now, when you're looking at this discussion, the Prime Minister's conversations in Pakistan are all about military matters. If this country wants to get into democracy, we need to be clear about this first. It is said that the prisseurs did not give us news, intelligence. Our own drone. Which one is this? Aren't they the Herons we got from Israel? Yeah. Did the Parliament's Human Rights Commission watch your footage? He watched. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, in the execution of this massacre -- the mass human massacre -- the crime against humanity, the crime against humanity, the crime against humanity, the crime written on the 76th and 77th Articles of the Turkish Penal Code -- there has been a thesis debate in this House. I'm asking the opposition: "Let our F16 fighters go, did you vote for this thesis in Uludere, Roboski, to drop bombs on 17 children under 17 years of age?" I ask you from here, I ask the CHP, I ask MHP, I ask you: Did you vote for this? You're saying you didn't. Well, then, there's an account of that, a legal state, a judiciary, and there's an account of that. Now, Mr. Prime Minister says that I took the notice and gave permission to the Joint Chiefs. Now, did you give that permission to the General Staff as Parliament?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0045par0053	We don't have a policy, we're lawyers, we get it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0044par0054	Now that you've given it to the Prime Minister, your political position is Prime Minister. We'll see what the Prime Minister says for two days. For two days, really, when I was listening to the Prime Minister, I said to myself, "May God not put anyone in that position -- a political leader." I'm Şırnak MP. 02 the night of the incident. I heard about it at 00. 02. Fifteen ambulances from our local authorities have arrived at the scene. I called the Prime Minister at 2:30, the Home Secretary, and he didn't come back to me, folks. They said, gentlemen of the court. I'm telling you exactly what the Chief of Staff said. I'm telling you, he's been killed, he's lost over 30. No one has returned to me. Everyone who knows Şırnak knows that when 70 mules and 40 people are on their way from the village of Roboski, from the village of Roboski, from the side of the Gülyazı Brigade, the list of names is in the pocket of the regiment commander. That's right, Heron, there's no need to call Predator. If one Zat phoned from Ankara, one sergeant general would have given up all information within ten minutes from Gülyaz Regimental Command, all of the smugglers who left the village with ID information, because they've been smuggling for years, this Regimental Command, Brigade knows it and knows how they're going and how they're coming. Now, here's what the Prime Minister says: there's been a transfer of permission and authority beyond my knowledge. The military, or the General Staff, used it in your knowledge. If it's already used in your knowledge, you have much more responsibility both politically and legally. Here's what you're supposed to do: intelligence comes in, American and Turkish officers in a dim room, and they record and evaluate it side by side. There is a unit called EDOK, after being evaluated in this unit for hours, after this unit, there are units of Air Force Command in the General Staff, there are drones in Batman, there are F16 planes in Diyarbakır. From the Prime Minister to the General Staff, from the General Staff to the pilot, at least 200 personnel are involved in this process, my friends. It is a debt of humanity, a debt of conscience, a debt of justice, a debt of justice, that the prosecution should take the testimony of all of this. As long as you don't do this, there's no need to talk about it differently every day here. You were working with the Chief of Staff yesterday. Where is he now? He's not in prison? There's not a single institution left that hasn't contaminated 30 years of war. Ganging, criminal organizations, coup attempts, and the unsolved murders, operations that revolve around them... are recorded in the memory of Turkey's recent history. In response to all of this, we ask the people responsible for this to be brought to justice. When we say, "Mr. Prime Minister," he says, "They're buying." Go to sleep, Prime Minister. Hundreds of poems were written, hundreds of songs, songs, songs, songs, documentaries, films, plays, plays. Everywhere -- get into the universe -- it's being watched all over the world. Earth, it's all wrong, you're right. And you will turn away from it, while the world will see all that it sees and all that it believes, and will question its account. The Turkish Armed Forces have to clean up this mess, friends, I'm telling you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0046par0060	Mr. Kaplan, please say...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0044par0061	In order for this to be a respectable institution, the perpetrators must be exposed.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0046par0062	Please speak clean language, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0044par0063	If it was intentional, negligence, I'm telling you, an accident, an accident, whatever, needs to be identified as responsibility. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] This is necessary for the brotherhood of this country, for the justice of this country, and I'm being very clear.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0047par0066	It's the government!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0044par0067	Of course, everyone knows their responsibility, and I'm saying that he should act accordingly. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0048par0070	Thank you. Mustafa Moroglu has asked for the People's Party Group, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0049par0073	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. We also explained in the Commission meetings our views on the draft Law and the Amendment to some Laws. In general, it says that we find the bill positive for some improvements, reducing bureaucracy and shortening certain times of enlistment, but there are some opinions that we have expressed in the Commission, and I would like to convey them here once again. In all other laws, such as in the bill of law, without the necessary debates and investigations, without the hearing of these sections of the Commission's legislation, we think it would be more excellent if this bill had been drawn up by experts, expert gendarmes, petty officers of various pensions, officers of military relations, and people of civilian life, and, again, friends who had been transferred to retirement with Law 6191, had been drafted. Because since this bill has come to light, it's been a duty to pass on to us all the demands and wishes of all the parties involved in this law, but because it passed through the Commission quickly, and because it was reflected in parliament rapidly, I consider it a duty to pass on their demands as a deputy. We see that part of their expectations have been fulfilled by this bill, but I also want to say that most of the expectations that were created were not fulfilled because there were expectations of petty officers and petty officers who had been cut off from this law, the veterans had expectations, the veterans had expectations, our friends who hoped that the inequalities between them would be resolved because of the fact that they had been transferred, but that they had to leave military schools, and that our fellow students who had to leave the military schools had expectations, when they had to leave when they were over twenty-nine years old, had expectations of students who had no access to the university, and that they would not be able to get ranked before. I consider it my duty to tell you once again here that many of these things should not be fulfilled, and since we cannot allow commissions to listen to most of those requests and demands, if possible. Our fellow petty officers were demanding the compensation of representation and office to senior officers, one of their expectations by this bill; they were also demanding compensation from the MIT and security services class, which was paid to pensioners for $100 more, but the most important problem was the removal of the inequality among all our friends in the Commission, who were forced to retire with Law 6191. Now, I would like to present an inequality here to all our citizens and our dear fellow congressmans and all my fellow lawmakers, who, if possible, would like to make an effort to correct it, on behalf of all my fellow lawmakers who advocate equality. This law has provided that friends who have been transferred to the residence by the AGE decision since 1971 have been allowed to regain their rights and to continue their duties if possible, if possible, to continue their own duties, and this has been limited to their own decisions, but it has been prevented by administrative decisions, disciplinary board decisions, minister approval or decision-making, or the ability to retire from military service or to return to their duties, and those who have been forced to resign from duty and return to their duties in the form of their will. Now, all lawmakers need to see very clearly that this is an inequality. As for the cause, we all know the council that made the decision in the year. So is there more inequality or injustice in decisions made in the year, or is there a lack in decisions made by a disciplinary board, by a minister's approval or by decisions? Because there's the President, there's the commanders, there's the ministers, there's the government officials. All the files are coming in front of you and they're all making decisions together, but we need to know that there are more friends, officers, petty officers, and senior officers who have been suspended by a disciplinary decision or by an executive decree. The question arises, whether or not, was it ideological when the law was passed? So why did we not want those who opposed the March 12 coup in 1971, those who opposed the coup of September 12th, to return to their duties or gain their rights? So in every decision, we can't get the idea out of our heads that our friends or prime minister, who have been critical of this, are ideological about it, because we all know that most of the people who were thrown out during this period were thrown out because they were opposed to the March 12th coup and the coup of September 12th, and that they were cut off from the army. Therefore, on one hand, we are against the attacks. We will also say, "We are against the attacks." In March 12th and September 12th, we will prevent the discharge of the officers from defending their rights. And I think it's not right to object to that, for some reason, that there are those who have committed a crime in a matter that has been brought to trial, and there are others who have drawn weapons against their commanders, including those who are involved in the mission of armed rebellion against the Constitution. When we act on such grounds, we all know why the AGE decisions were made and why the president, the commanders who made these decisions, were involved in these decisions as well as in working to establish an intervention in the country, by changing the Constitution, by overturning the government, by overthrowing the secular order, and by building a law order. It's true to argue that these are wrong -- we're not a judicial institution -- it's not the work of the ministers of parliament -- but if you've accepted the military as a period of time when you've had to retire from the army since 1971, or when people who have been expelled have been wronged, and I think you'll have to address this in particular as a government that has fought against the attacks and has made arrangements to ensure that the coups don't happen again. I'm saying that if you don't do this, that you're ideological, that you're not actually fighting the coups, that you're fighting against everyone who isn't yours, and that you're allowing your relatives to take care of their rights and their victims due to resen retirement, that you don't know the others. But here you also cause injustice: Just because you want to prevent friends from returning from fighting the blows, because they are in debt, because they are in debt, because they can't make a living in their homes, some of their friends who violate military discipline also burn with age. For him, our greatest demand for this matter is that we all look for a way to correct this with a motion, as do our citizens who have suffered all these sacrifices. Because when you look at the numbers, the number of citizens who have applied here, the number of citizens who have applied for their rights to return, 4,606 applications have been submitted, and only 629 have been accepted, and this has been reduced to a period of 60 days. Now, with this bill being discussed in the Commission, the situation of our fellow students in military schools has also come to light. We have learned together that our friends, who have had to leave school for different reasons, have had a hard time paying these compensations, such as 59,000 liras, and are interested in a large group of students. And I would like to point out that in 1997, especially between 1997 and 2000, this number was quite large, so we have found it right that we have made an adjustment in the bill to ensure that the compensations are forgiven and that the year will be withdrawn into 1997. We also ask that certain demands on student times be counted into military service, that all college students benefit from all the grants made in Turkey, while we also see that our friends do not benefit from them as an arrangement contrary to the equality of opportunity in education, and that this should be corrected by the motions that we will all make together. One of the biggest problems we've had is that our friends, who have turned twenty-nine, have suffered major losses this year in particular. For he had no interest in his military service when he registered for the school, so that he could register for the students at the age of twenty-nine. He was asked for a certificate. Special faculty, private higher education institutions in particular didn't apply it, but some of the state universities in the Higher Education Board also requested that they cut you off from military service during the second semester. Thus, some of our fellow students have either been forced to continue their studies or have had to leave their schools, either by applying to the military for the price, by collecting or by paying in debt. So I'd like to say here that our friends, who are 29 years old, should not be cut off from their schools, that they were misstated in an arrangement. Because the statement made in the bill goes on to say: "Those who have been cut off from higher education institutions due to their age of nine years, and there is a provision that can be postponed for two years. If the military will be delayed for two years, it should allow our students who have turned twenty-nine to continue to study for two years, so that they may continue to study in third grade and fourth grade. Because the contrary is that he's in third grade, passed a lot of exams, earned a degree in a faculty, but he's in his third grade, so he's cut off, even though he's 29 years old, but he's allowed to freeze. Go to your military service, then you can continue your studies. I think in the third grade, students who have turned twenty-nine years old should be allowed to postpone their military service for two years and continue their studies, my dear friends. Now, after this law came, we also received suggestions that there were some inequalities, both in certain websites and in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, as well as in the commission. When we look at these suggestions, it's not possible to go back to the beginning and not get the feeling that all of them, especially our friends who served at the military institution, our friends who left here, and our friends who were members of parliament, had been thoroughly examined and discussed with the suggestions that had come to us, and that the law would have been arranged after that. For example, one of our fellow captains brought a file -- I don't know how many years ago -- because they didn't have the rank of a major, because they didn't have the rank of a major, and because they didn't have the rank of a senior, and because they couldn't get a higher rank, and because they couldn't get a higher salary, and because they couldn't get an important increase in their fees, they had a lot of officers who were transferred to the majors, but they were allowed to get ranked by a law in 2003, so not all of us who had to stay on the major staff anymore, the people who wanted, the colonel, they could get a promotion like this right, and they were told that when they were retired, they got 3,600 lira, they had to get a pension. I'd like to express here the inequality and injustice of our fellow physicians serving as soldiers. Depending on GATA, I would like to take a doctor's examination and serve as an expert in a certain field. Until today, there has been an arrangement that does not allow our friends who have won the master's exam to make changes to their area of expertise. Now, what they're demanding today is that as doctors, we want to have those rights, whatever other trade groups, mechanical engineer, electrical engineer, or other groups have rights. So if we have to take a major today, take a general surgeon's exam, start majoring, three days later, five days later, five months later, because of our incompatibility with general surgery, for example, five months later, because of our incompatibility with general surgery, for example, because of our inability to operate, or if we take a better field of residency, then we're being given sanctions so that we don't have to leave the field of residency that we've already won, that we're being suspended for a year, that's why I'm being sentenced to take a year's term, so we're being suspended. Therefore, we would like to take advantage of the rights earned by other trade groups with a motion to add to the clause. I think it's also important to ensure equality between our friends who serve in the military in different trade groups. My dear friends, when you look at all the arrangements, I think it's my duty as a congressman to know and remind you that even though it's generally positive, there are significant shortcomings and inequality. I'd also like to remind you that there are certain differences between the upper level and the lower level, the lower level, the middle level, both in indicators and integers, but in general, there are many differences, and there are inequalities between the upper and the gold, which can't be accepted in any field. It is our duty to correct these inequalitys. I'd say we'd like to address some of the shortcomings that we've expressed here by talking to a bill that will soon be passed, not by a bill, but by saying that the real problem with the soldiers and the police that we've been talking about in life is that all of our soldiers and police want to serve in peace and peace in Turkey. This is the original request, and I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0050par0089	Thank you. Sümümü Ünal, İstanbul MP who asked for the EC PARTY Group to speak for him.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0051par0091	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the Military Law and the draft bill for amendments to certain laws. I hereby salute your high council. You know, military is the right and duty of every Turkish citizen under Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. Perhaps this sacred task, which we send our young men off in a way that we can't find an example in any country in the world, is viewed as a separate debt of pride and country in our country. Honourable MPs are soldiers from seven to seventy who have carried the Turkish nation with pride for twelve thousand years, with the military nation's quality in history. And it is in every soldier's heart to willingly give his life, his most precious possession, to preserve his land and its sovereignty, which is rooted in the blood of the martyr. In this regard, parents send their children to the military furnace, a home that they consider to be the Prophet's furnace, either martyr or veteran. On this occasion, I express my gratitude to our veterans once again for the mercy and gratitude of all the martyrs who gave their lives fearlessly for their country. Members of the law, as a result of co-ordinated work by the Chief of Staff, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Interior, the proposals for a change of law have been prepared for you shortly. The proposed amendments were adopted last week in harmony with our National Minister of Defence and expert bureaucrats, and the National Defence Commission has been assessed, necessary additional and corrections. Members of parliament, as you know, the first roll call of those in military age was made on 1 January to 30 June, and the final roll call of those in the military age that year and those delayed from the previous year was made from 1 July to 31 October, and the backup poll is from 1 January to 31 October. The Central Population Administration System, the Address Register System and the National Ministry of Defence Information System came into effect, and there was no need for the first roll call and backup. Military councils consist of governors or deputy governors in the provinces, military branch heads, two physicians, and the head of municipal populations and civic affairs, while the districts consist of the head of the military branch, two physicians and population managers. The latest roll call in the military councils is to determine whether those responsible are eligible for military service, their collections, professions and qualifications, and identity information. Those with visible ailments are not eligible for military service. Those who are unable to decide whether to release or delay transfer to the following year are referred to the nearest military hospital. Military legislatures include three to five days a year and ten to 20 days a year for those with extra processing density. At other times, when the military council is not boarded, the final roll call of the responsible is held at the nearest military health centre, if not at the official NGOs. Given that most of the locations of the military branches are not military health services, the final roll-ups of those responsible during the absence of the military council are held by official NGOs, and those who have been identified by these healthcare agencies have been referred to the nearest military hospital by the military departments. Due to the shortness of the final roll call, the incumbents remain on a roll call. The short-term formation of the military council, particularly in major cities and tourist military branches, is causing riots and intensity. Those who have completed four-year-old universities and institutes of higher education are required by the General Staff to be employed according to Article 14/6 of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act. Those who have won the exam in other classes outside the military judge's class are allegedly taking office in the Turkish Armed Forces, followed by the training of the officer to provide basic military and officership. In this case, a position of authority and responsibility, such as supervisorship, command, superior, and so on, is imposed on those who have not had sufficient military experience and have not yet been given military training. Without knowledge of many of their obligations, these individuals have been hanged by part of the Turkish Armed Forces, while many have become superior. These personnel, who have no knowledge of the hierarchical structure of the Turkish Armed Forces, the command-command relationship, the basic values of military service and the rank of lieutenant among members of the Turkish Armed Forces, can harm the discipline of the Turkish Armed Forces. Another problem is the allowance of military personnel. When the allowances for military students and privates are out of order, there is no problem in paying hand-to-hand or banking systems, and staff can't withdraw all the allowance they deserve with their bank card. A variety of changes have been made to the rights of persons subject to State Officers Act 657 and to the rights of some of whom are subject to the Law on Reconstructions of Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law and other Laws and Laws. Of these changes, it has been reflected on whether the husband, wife, wife, wife, wife and child are allowed to be allowed to be allowed to give birth for the duration of the monthly leave of life, husband, wife, father or sister, if they are not forced to look after or escorted, father, wife, and children, if one of their siblings has suffered from a severe accident or an important illness, three months of unsustainable leave is allowed to be granted three months' leave of leave and if they want it to be granted for another six months without a month's monthly leave, if they are forced by the staff, and ten months's orders for civil servants to be granted to be granted six months's life, if they don't have a child, and ten months's life at the same time. Unlike their public precedents, veterans of the faculty and university graduates are still able to take office at the 11th degree and rise to the 3rd degree. With the attention of staff in similar public status, the status of the veterans has been redesigned, from the 10th degree to the 1st degree, and from the 1st degree to the 1st degree. Given the length of the deadlines required to become a teaching member, it is difficult for professors employed as contract officers to meet the requirement of seven to twelve years of actual service for the transition to regular officership. There is a public interest in not seeking a term of actual service from contract officers who have become teachers and taking advantage of them for a longer period of time. From Article 145 of the Constitution, the requirements of military services that weaken independence have been made clear by removing the words. In independent courts, all judges and prosecutors are in the same position for a fair trial. Military judges and prosecutors who carry out the same constitutional judicial function must have the same assurances as judicial and administrative judges and prosecutors. A total of 20 laws have been proposed in the draft law. I find it useful to point out that the current staff of the Turkish Armed Forces, privates and privates prepare for education under better conditions, the right to extradite their rights, are the main steps in the transition of our government to the professional army in line with its 2023 objectives. Members of parliament, with this bill, the removal of military parliaments, which have been formed for short periods by the military branch's presidency, The first roll call to remove the backup inspection process, To be able to be conducted by family physicians who keep records of medical examinations, medications, surgeries, and operations, In places where there are no military hospitals, disabled, bedridden, limb loss, or visible disease, it is not suitable for the military to provide temporary health care for those who are determined to delay the transfer or to leave the next year, as well as for the chief of the military department and two medical doctors who will assign property to the authorities. There is no charge or contribution from family physicians, civil health agencies or military hospitals. The extension of the roll call and the reduction of the number of attendance fugitives due to it, In accordance with Article 83, 84, 85, 87 and 94 of the Military Law 1111, the application of administrative fines to those responsible by the district or county administration boards and to end the complaints of our citizens, In parallel with the removal of military parliaments, the end of drafting military decisions by the district or county administration boards when these parliaments are not collective. Due to the fact that there is no obligation to attend school at many universities today and that there is no obligation to study instead of passing classes, there is an obligation to attend school on the condition that colleges and college students should postpone military service and not be forced to stay in the classroom two years in a row. The officers are to be subjected to training for basic military and officership training, before they get ranked as a regular officer provided by the outside source. In case of birth, death, and severe illness, the permissions to be granted to Turkish Armed Forces personnel are to be reorganised. To allow petty officers to rise to the 1st degree, By reducing military personnel 15 years of mandatory service to ten years, the standardization of the Western world, During or after the military service, those who have completed colleges and universities will be given the opportunity to become contract officers or petty officers, The better conditions can be achieved by making arrangements in the monthly indicators of officers, petty officers, veterans, and police officers. A lecturer at military educational institutions is to be given access to civilian personnel, social facilities and housing facilities such as equal officers We aim. In addition, according to constitutional amendments, by the European Court of Human Rights and Constitutional Court's rulings, regulations have been made regarding the Court's independence and judicial guarantees, registration procedures in the Code of Military Judges 357, the separation into the first class, and the procedures in which they become the first class, autonomy rights, the complaints and complaints in their rights, the investigation and prosecution authorities, personal crimes subject to the general judiciary and personal responsibility, the legal responsibility of independence, and pension procedures. In the Military Supreme Court Act 1,600, regulations have been made regarding the duties of the President and members of the Military Supreme Court. In 1972, the Supreme Court of Military Government Law No. 1602 has made arrangements for the process of processing cases. The amendment to the Court of Military Courts No. 353 of 1963 and the Law on Judiciary Law has been changed. Congressmans, by law, we wish this bill to be a cause for good in the name of our nation, and with your high permission, I would like to end my words with the words of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk: "As it is our duty to win the soul of our soldiers, as it is our duty to first create a spirit, an emel, and a character from God, and after the Prophet of Medinai Münevvere." I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0052par0129	Thank you. It's Fevai Arlen, Düzce MP, who wants to speak on behalf of himself.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0053par0132	Mr. President, I have made a personal commitment to the Military Law and to make changes to certain Laws. I hereby salute your high council. Military service, as we all know, is a sacred duty in accordance with Article 72 of our Constitution, which is the right and duty of every Turkish citizen. For us in our country, this mission is a source of pride that we will never see in any country in the world, including the great authorities of martyrdom and war. That's why we've discussed some radical changes in our Commission due to the work we've done with the State Department of Defense's bureaucrats on the subject. I would like to remind you once again that the training of existing personnel in the Turkish Armed Forces under better circumstances, improving their rights, is in the process of transitioning to the professional army and within our 2023 objectives. With this bill, in short, the removal of the military councils created by the military branch presidents, the first roll call and the release of the interim medical board, the ability to be carried out by family physicians who have previously kept the records of the responsible' medical examinations, the absence of military hospitals, "Employment is not available. It is not available. It is not appropriate for the military to delay or to extend the number of committed health reports by the military branch head of the next year, and to be granted temporary health care boards consisting of the first respondents, to be granted by the family physicians, to be carried out by the family health care providers, to be taken care of their health care providers, to be granted any part of military hospitals, or to be granted any part of any part of the law, to the law of the state-designed military hospitals, or to the rights of the Union, to be granted by the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the Membership of the Membership of the Member States of the Constitution, to the Constitution, or to the presidential of the Constitution, to the Constitution, to the Constitution, to the presidential and to which shall be appointed by the law, or to be granted of the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the responsibilities of the Member of the Constitution, or to be appointed by the Constitution, to be granted of the Member of the Constitution, to the presidential of the Member of the presidential of the Constitution, and the Constitution of the Constitution, to the Constitution, and the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, and to be granted of the Member of the Constitution or to be granted of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Constitution, and to be granted of the first of the Constitution, and to be granted of the Constitution of the Constitution or to be granted of the Member of the Constitution, and to be granted of the Constitution, to be granted of the Constitution, and to be granted of the Member of the Constitution, to be granted of the Constitution, and to be granted of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Constitution, and to be granted of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Constitution, to be appointed of the first of the Constitution, to be appointed of the first of the On this occasion, our nation's pupil, the Turkish Armed Forces, remembers our children as martyrs and veterans, with mercy and gratitude, and I wish the bill to be a blessing for our members of the Turkish Armed Forces and our nation, and I salute your high delegation.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0054par0138	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, has asked for a word on his behalf.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0055par0141	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. As Mr. Koray Aydın, who has spoken on behalf of our group earlier, our Parliament, our General Assembly today is experiencing the beauty of consultation between power and opposition. Indeed, we are talking together about a bill of legislation that regulates the rights of Turkish Armed Forces personnel, which regulates a number of setbacks that arise in practice, by doing the right thing. Of course, the more we talk about it, the more we miss it. Although we have said that the Commission has been compromised in as short as two hours, there have been issues missing as we discuss -- employment, circumcision -- as long as we discuss them. At the point of correcting these, we, the group's vice presidents, are trying to arrange the matter with joint motions. By discussing amongst ourselves the new proposals brought by our fellow experts, and by agreeing on what we see is right and what we see is necessary, we are putting forward a joint effort for an important institution, and we will pass here an arrangement for the Military Law of 248 rows. So I, our General Assembly, first the political institution, for our parties, present to your appreciation that we have received an important outcome for our House. I'd like to thank the Commissioner and my fellow commissioners, especially Mr. Secretary, who contributed to this. Dear friends, if there's a will to compromise on these matters, if there's a will to do the right thing together, the political institution's meaning is revealed, and Turkey's Grand National Assembly's commitment to the nation is being fulfilled. So I find it useful to rephrase, to compromise with the ruling group, to remind them of the benefits of law enforcement. Although our Speaker and President of the Constitutional Commission always put a compromise on the Constitution ahead of us, and we do, but in some cases, the imposition of the ruling group is disrupting the idea of this place. We have a lot of issues at work, a lot of problems, but I care about the beauty of this settlement and the outcome of the consultation together. Dear friends, we'll try to contribute with the questions. When we make an arrangement, we also need to set forth a purpose for correcting the injustices between the legal arrangement and its dealings. For example, there are two things that are missing from this law. Why is it missing? Because the Treasury says we can't move. But that's the law we need to do with the NCOs, the retired petty officers, who have risen to the 2nd degree before the new arrangement. Because the arrangement you've brought here has come to the third degree of the 1st degree and regulates the rights of retired petty officers. At least 200,000 of retired petty officers have retired from the 2nd degree and have suffered a loss of rights to self. Therefore, the government and the Commission, who own this law, I don't mean to deny the Ministry of Finance's objection, but if we're building a law -- you have a claim to equal work between cases -- Mr. Secretary -- now you're doing the same thing, doing the same thing, doing the same thing, doing the same service, building the law -- you're doing the wrong thing, Mr. Secretary -- you're doing the wrong thing, you're doing the wrong thing. Now the Petty Officers are looking for him with a terrible cry. Your arrangement brings rights to those who are retired from the 3rd level of the 1st degree. Most of the petty officers, about 200,000 petty officers, retired from the 2nd degree. Well, you have a responsibility to improve their rights. Of course, you have an excuse to maintain balance in the budget, and you have an excuse to object to the property, but there is also justice. More than anyone, Mr. Secretary, where there's no justice, there's cruelty. Therefore, let us make a motion: it is possible to regulate it in Article 33, Article 34. Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Commissioner is here. We have no objection, and I believe the AKP Group has no objection. Retired, retired from the 2nd degree, serving over 30 years, carrying all kinds of risks, should not be spared from these petty officers. It's not a favor, it's a right; you shouldn't use it for extortion. I'm also telling my fellow lawyers who have a valuable legal identity that we can arrange. If necessary, we can all contribute to substance abuse, or it may be possible by means of an arrangement that will be made in temporary 34. Other than that, again, there are Turkish Armed Forces personnel at the Gülhane Military Medical Academy who have lost a right to medical expertise, and they have a demand. I would like to submit this request to the attention of the Commission and the government. Another issue comes to us as a demand that the decree of Law 4678 should be changed in the first sentence of Article 12 of Article 4 of the First Amendment. Again, I give you your attention. Again, to come after the first joke of Article 2478 of Law No. 4678, the 1st sentence (a) of Article No. 926 of Turkish Armed Forces Staff Law (a) has to be brought here. For what it's worth, I mean, this personnel law has turned into a bird with a lot of interference, so to speak, a people's word. Thus, there are serious losses of rights among public workers, people who work at the same time, from different legislation. We need to be involved in an effort to set up a law here, to correct all of these rights losses. Another thing, Mr. Minister, why don't you recruit these contracting chiefs of staff as a result of your government, our country, our Parliament, our Turkey? So for national defense, they have different treatments or different assurances than those on staff? That's why I repeat: I'm asking you, on behalf of these citizens, on behalf of these personnel, why the government -- which you have not brought here yet -- on behalf of the Turkish Armed Forces staff -- did not apply it. After all, I wish this law to be good for our country, for the Turkish Armed Forces, for our nation, for our Parliament. This law states that we, as the National Movement Party Group, will vote positively for your delegation by correcting their shortcomings if it can be corrected, but if it is not corrected.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0056par0154	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0057par0157	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I have just said in my speech, will these special police officers be included in the regulation of this law? That's my first question. Mr. Secretary, you haven't been able to listen to our conversations, but I welcome you with the dust of your feet.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0058par0160	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0057par0161	My second question is, are you going to act like a 2nd-degree retired petty officer before this law? Another question: are you going to recruit contract specialists? Another question: Will you also apply your decision to pay equal wages for equal work for Turkish Armed Forces personnel? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0059par0165	Thank you. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0060par0167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Recep Erdogan's son didn't go to the army, he received a report. Do you intend to recheck this report, and what disease did he report from? That's what I want to know. I know, he took it from a Navy hospital. Second: the government that killed 34 of our citizens, the government that gave the order. If a citizen's nose bleeds elsewhere, a normal responsible government resigns. Do you, as the government, who ordered the murder of 34 of our citizens, intend to resign by taking responsibility? Is it in your conscience, if you do not understand? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0061par0171	Mr. Agha? No. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0062par0173	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Mr. Secretary, this law aims to conduct military examinations of those under the age of military service with one doctor. Isn't this an arrangement that can lead to abuse? What measures are considered to be taken? 2) How many military hospitals do we still have in our country? Are they capable of anything? 3) Is it true that the military hospital in the Kütahya Air Brigade will be shut down or converted into a police clinic? If it's true, what's his motive? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0063par0178	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0064par0180	Thank you, Mayor. 1) Who gave information to 34 of our people who were killed in Uludere? The Secretary of Defense is here, and the military personnel are here, and we're dealing directly with them. 2) Do foreign personnel work here within the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security? If it's ringing, how many people are working? 3) Who gave the order to shoot in Uludere? 4) Were our citizens killed in Uludere (Uludere) shot from outside Turkey's borders or from outside Turkey's borders? If shots were fired from abroad, were Turkish Armed Forces allowed to leave the country? Is this permit written verbally or verbally? If it was written or verbal, how many days or hours ago? If it's in writing, would you hand out a copy of this written permit to the House? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0065par0186	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0066par0188	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, as the National Movement Party, we have repeatedly asked what is the status of the base in Malatya Globecik, and we have received no response from the Ministry of National Defence or the government. Finally, US President Obama gave the answer, and he said, "We're going to hand over this base that belongs to us to NATO." Mr. Secretary, would you please explain that this base was founded in Malatya, Turkey, is it a US base manager, NATO base, or is it a Turkish base? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0067par0192	Thank you. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0068par0194	Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Secretary, who ordered this operation in Uludere? I'm curious about the same thing. Secondly, two hours before this operation, were they detected? Have these findings been reviewed in both the prosecution and the military prosecution and the parliamentary research commission? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0069par0198	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0070par0200	Thank you, Mayor. Since there was time, I felt the need to ask again. Is there a decision made by the Council of Ministers on compensation for those who died in Uludere? Where is this compensation paid from, what account is it paid from? What is the legal basis for the compensations planned to be paid? Is the decision of the Council of Ministers published in the Official Gazette? If published, which date and row were published with the number number number? What ministry will the compensation payments be paid by? On what basis will the ministry, which will pay the payment, allocate the compensation payments from? Will the amount of compensation to be paid include legal interest from the day of the incident to today? According to what criteria, who, how much, when or when will these payments be made? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0071par0204	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0072par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, do you think it's true that the only physician in particular in the health examinations of those in charge -- considering how family physician standards are being created in our country -- should be decided by practitioners or directed to a further stage? Because we believe that this could really lead to serious abuse in our country. Is it right for the future centers to be authorized by family physicians before they are loved by those who are eligible or unfit for military service? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0073par0209	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0211	Mr. President, highly respected MPs, I salute you all. I'll try to answer questions asked by our congressman friends as much as I can. And I'd like to rephrase that for those of you who haven't had an answer. It was a question from Mr. Shandır. There was a question, "Are the petty officers retiring from the 2nd degree?" A study of this has been completed by our Ministry and sent to the Prime Minister. If that's...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0075par0214	If you speak a little louder, we don't hear you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0076par0215	Let's do it here Mr. Minister, it's possible here, add it to Article 34.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0216	A study by the Ministry of the 2nd degree of retired officers has been completed and sent to the Prime Minister, and we expect him to be legalized. There was a question: "Are you going to recruit the attendings with the contract?" The Turkish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence, who have turned 45 years old, are employed as civil servants. Another question is, will the equivalent pay for the equal work be applied to the Turkish Armed Forces? Studies for the rights of Turkish Armed Forces personnel continue, but the general principle of our government is equal work. It takes so much debate, what is, what is it, what is it, something different, but there's a study where everyone thinks that what they've done is the most important thing they've done, and the other one is less important, but in the end, we have this law -- every day -- we have this law -- we're working to improve the autonomy rights of our armed forces staff, either the Petty Officer or the contractors, or the chartered personnel, as our country's economy allows. There was another question, Mr. Kamer Young. A question has been asked about this before in the time of Vecdi Gonul. I'm reading the answer to the question given at the time of Vecdi Heart: Article 20 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, entitled the privacy of private life, ▪ Everyone has the right to ask for respect for their privacy and family life. The privacy of private life and family life cannot be touched. It contains the ruling. There is nothing more to be said in the question motion -- now in Mr. Youth's question -- since it is considered to be part of the privacy of private life.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0077par0222	No, Mr. Secretary! If a prime minister's son doesn't go into the army, it's important. Whatever his illness is, send him back to the hospital.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0223	It is not suitable to be a soldier before being gunned down. It is always possible to be referred to control examinations when there are reports or complaints about those who have received the report.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0077par0224	I'm complaining. Send him back to the report, and he'll get another report.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0078par0225	Shut up!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0226	Yes, about Mr. Light's military hospital, of course... the Kütahya Military Hospital began serving as a 30-bed hospital over 7,800 square meters in 1942, reorganised as a 100-bed Air Hospital in 1976, where the entire hospital was renovated in 2002. In 2005, the Turkish Armed Forces joined the Health Command and began serving as Kütahya Military Hospital. As of 2012, there are 2 public, 2 private and 1 university hospitals in the province of Kütahya. Its primary task is to contribute to the preservation and supply of the manpower of the Turkish Armed Forces and to the national health system and to adapt to the hospital roles of the Ministry of Health, to assess their performances, to take exponential measures, and to turn some military hospitals into polyclines. As part of the ongoing work, no military hospital, including the Kütahya Military Hospital, has yet to be completed to close the healthcare system, work and approval. Again, many of our fellow lawmakers, Mr. Oğan, also had a question about the sphere. We're telling the truth about whose sphere is it? (Look, I'm just coming from a NATO meeting). But it's not what we say by our people, it's either a newspaper publication from America, or the word of an official in the United States, or an official from Israel, which I think should be questioned by those who are more respected than us. NATO has a defense system called smart defense, which will be presented to NATO's service in the form of sharing their abilities from this pool by putting them in a pool. NATO's ballistic missile defence system is a decision made at the Lisbon summit, and it has been declared that the ballistic missile defence system passed by the temporary operational NATO system at the summit in Chicago, including in Turkey. It's a NATO capacity. To Turkey, the United States of America...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0079par0231	Mr. Secretary, either you or Obama, one of you is lying!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0232	No, just like that. I'm telling you, everyone in the smart defense system is going to build a pool that will combine their resources, and NATO will take advantage of it. We made the contract with America, but there is a clause in our contract: this is for use for NATO purposes. Thus, both we and America contribute to NATO. There's nothing wrong with that.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0080par0233	Mr. Secretary, it wouldn't have been a problem if you'd said so in the first place.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0234	Well, that's clear, and we said that, and we said that all the time. I'll tell you one more thing: look, this missile wants to be part of the defense system in Russia. Thus, there is now a global defense in the world. I mean, just like we're a global village...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0080par0236	The government has misled you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0237	There's nothing wrong with our country, there's nothing wrong with it. Even Russia is trying to get involved in this missile system.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0081par0238	Mr. Secretary, is it signed with America?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0239	Yes, yes, we signed the contract with the United States, but it's about NATO.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0081par0240	Is America signing for NATO?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0241	If America requires financial burdens, what harm can there be in America for NATO opportunities?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0082par0242	Mr. Secretary, why didn't you say so before?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0243	No, we were very clear. Absolutely look...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0082par0244	No, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0245	No, please...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0082par0246	You said NATO, you flagged NATO, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0247	I was sitting here when there was another law. Again about the same thing, please turn on the transcripts, see what we've done, what we've said.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0082par0248	Mr. Secretary, you raised a NATO flag there.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0249	Well, what do we say? When we said it would be used for NATO opportunities, we drew the NATO flag.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0082par0250	But then you and America arrived, and you're just handing it over to NATO.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0251	Sir, we've just arrived in NATO, and NATO's missile defence system has been declared temporary operational. In this system, there will be Romania, and in certain stages, there will be Poland, there will be Spain, there will be America, there will be Turkey. Again, the other thing about Uludere is that we observe as much privacy as possible from the special prosecutor's office in Diyarbakir. We say: "Everyone says something, but we trust the Turkish judiciary." Shouldn't you also rely on the Turkish judiciary or on the Turkish judiciary? Let's see what happens first.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0083par0253	We don't trust special authority courts, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0254	Wait a minute... it's either good... it's possible, it's possible, it's possible, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0083par0255	Special jurisdictional courts are extraordinary trials.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0084par0256	What does that have to do with judgment?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0074par0257	Look here, on the borders of Iraq...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0085par0258	You made a amendment here because you didn't trust the special court's attorney.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0086par0259	What are you waiting for?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0087par0260	Mr. Kaplan, please, Mr. Secretary, please respond.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0088par0261	The prosecution has launched an investigation into this matter. The D.A.'s office has made a confidentiality decision on the investigation. We respect the prosecution's decision. We expect our other friends to comply with that request by the same prosecution. Another thing: did this incident happen abroad, did it happen within the borders of Iraq? Yeah, it happened in Iraq, that's the first thing.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0089par0263	You trust the prosecutor who comes into your account, you dismiss the one who doesn't come into your account.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0088par0264	Secondly, has Parliament authorized the Turkish Armed Forces' foreign operation? Yes, the House has an authority.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0090par0265	He didn't give to his armed forces, he gave authority to the government.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0088par0266	The parliament has a law on the Turkish Armed Forces for abroad. You'll see the last time you pass a warrant. And it's pretty clear that nothing happened here either. Where did the intel come from? Intelligence, we've reported it in writing before, and we're saying, this is from national sources. But when we're out there, what's the news in a newspaper?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0090par0268	Can you tell us the name of the national source? Internal resources, external national resources... would you care to explain that?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0088par0269	We think it's not our lack of credit -- by the way -- to be more respected than our Ministry's writing or the General Staff's statement.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0091par0270	It seems America has become a national resource.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0088par0271	Again, another issue is: On 28 December 2011, information from national sources is based on air operations in the north of Iraq.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0092par0272	I mean, from America.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0093par0273	Can you tell us the name of that national source? You mean internal resources or external resources, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0094par0274	America's a national resource? Explain that to me.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0275	It's not, but if you knew this, you probably wouldn't be talking about it. It's not just an image, it's not intelligence.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0096par0276	Explain yourself, Minister.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0277	The prosecution will explain. I'm supposed to take over the D.A.'s office and decide? He's the one who wants the information from all over the place, he wants it from the Home Office, he wants it from the Ministry of Defense, he wants it from the Chief of Staff, he wants it from the gendarme, he gets all the information.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0278	The list of names didn't go to the officers.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0279	Air operations carried out on 28 December 2011 in northern Iraq.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0280	Not a single personnel statement has been taken.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0281	Listen... look, you're always saying the same thing.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0282	But I mean, a little conscience...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0283	Oh, the Hasip Kaplan... the Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0284	One person, tell me a staff statement has been taken.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0285	Hasip Kaplan, if we knew, it would be because of human anxiety...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0286	I mean, how can one person not be interviewed?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0287	For God's sake, we're here for you, but not for human anxiety. There's always dead love, chasing after a coffin. Look, I didn't come here prepared. I'll tell you the same thing.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0290	But 34 people died there. Don't two people who committed the massacre testify?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0291	We're not saying it's the right thing to do, we're saying the prosecution needs to be investigated. I'm here to...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0292	What further examination do we have to wait for? 145 days have passed.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0293	A man who had been and had been in the PKK before said that he was still living in Germany: "When we woke up every morning in Bekaa, we would line up 15 or 20 people and kill them, and we would shout the name of the leader of this terrorist organization as we killed them. We have forgotten the name of those whom we have slain, and have forgotten the number.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0294	Mr. Secretary, we're asking you about the people who were killed in Uludere.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0295	He had a little respect for the human being, and he said, "Ask him if this person killed him here." Do you have that kind of concern? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0298	Those who were killed in the nation are not questioned. That's one thing, that's another.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0299	Look...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0300	That's different.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0301	They're our brothers. One thing...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0097par0302	His account is separate... and bring them out. You're being biased, that's not true.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0303	Hasip Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0098par0304	Mr. Kaplan, please... Mr. Secretary, Mr. Kaplan, don't interfere.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0306	Hasip Kaplan, I'll listen to you, but this microphone was given to me, so let me tell you, listen, and when it's over, take your word, you say it. So...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0307	But I mean, you're talking one-sided, you're not right, you're wrong.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0308	But you always do this. Which means that the violence of thought has settled. Listen, I'm done, I believe I'm telling the truth. Say, "Get up, prove it, or else there are different opinions. " Then we'll listen to you. Whatever you're saying... Look, Hasip Kaplan, now, we had a congressman who had been raised by these lands before, who was elected MP from the DTP, who died in June.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0310	Nuri Yaman.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0311	Nuri Yaman is our brother. Our brother Nuri Yaman passed away, and in June, his funeral was prepared, and immediately they wanted to put the flag of the organization on his funeral, and his daughter, the daughter of Nuri Yaman, rejected it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0313	Leave it now, so don't resort to anything else so you don't have to answer.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0314	The daughter of Nuri Yaman had rejected it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0315	As your child would have wanted...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0316	He didn't allow your funeral abuse, the abuse of the dead.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0317	The child raised his funeral as he wished and paid his respects.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0318	There's another...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0319	It's time to answer.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0320	In Antalya...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0321	Your mission is... to expose the killers first. For God's sake...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0100par0322	Mr. Kaplan, please...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0323	Those killers are the ones who put guns in those people's hands and drove them to the mountains.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0324	So now you're just gonna ignore the killers, the bomb makers, the ordermakers? Is that humanity? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0095par0325	Again, you wanted to turn his funeral on the way to Silvan, about the live bomb in Antalya. You have no concern about human beings, you have a concern for abuse.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0327	There's no abuse, there's a massacre. There's an account for the massacre. That massacre will be accounted for.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0101par0328	Let him answer, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0329	That massacre will be accounted for, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0102par0330	Who laughed during this massacre, who was pleased, and who raided five police stations...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0331	Mr. Secretary and the Prime Minister and the national defense...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0103par0332	Mr. Kaplan, he's going to ask for judgment, so no one can ask for it except your judgment. Please... the judge will ask for it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0333	Is that all right, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0104par0334	He says: "Who took advantage of this massacre?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0335	Whoever did this massacre, bring him out. Who did this?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0104par0336	If we had printed five police stations, we could not have gained so much benefit.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0337	Who did the massacre, Mr. Secretary? Who did the massacre? Who dropped the bombs? It's the truth.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0104par0338	PKK did the massacre, PKK did the massacre, and it's still going on.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0339	Is the conscience of this House dead? Doesn't the House have a conscience, fellas?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0104par0340	It's not the conscience of the House. It's what happens when you stop exploiting a little.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0105par0341	Mr. Kaplan, please, there is no such procedure. Mr. Secretary is answering questions.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0342	Does that ever happen?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0104par0343	Hasip Kaplan again, you...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0344	There hasn't been a statement from an officer in 145 days.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0104par0345	In Diyarbakir Ikkale, when the bones were announced a hundred years ago, you got up again, you abused it from here, but then it came out a hundred years ago. Shouldn't you be apologizing? What if we exaggerate everything, and we know the opportunity to exploit everything. Shouldn't you say? What happened in Ishkale? And there's...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0099par0346	Extortion? My planes are the ones that dropped bombs on 34 people, my Joint Chiefs, my Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0106par0347	Mr. Kaplan, please... he answers the questions, he answers them, and then you have a say. - But Mr. President... that's not the answer. That's not an answer. If you'll excuse us... this is the answer we've been given. Please, allow the Minister to finish his speech after that. - It's over.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0107par0351	On 28 December 2011, information was provided from national sources that were the main source of air operations in northern Iraq. Observer drones are in the inventory of the Turkish Armed Forces, where planning, use and control are made nationally. Momentary intelligence cooperation between Turkey and the United States concerning northern Iraq continues after US forces withdrew from Iraq. The entire group, considered terrorists, has been deployed across the border, on Iraqi territory, while authorities in the process have not received any information that the group is a smuggler. Under Code 2565, under the Council of Ministers, outside the country's borders...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0108par0353	So you're saying by order of the government, you're clearly saying it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0109par0354	So you're saying yes. The Prime Minister says...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0107par0355	The first-degree military restricted zones are located along the black border and in areas between thirty and six hundred metres deep on the shores required. The first-degree restricted zone borders on the Turkish-Iraq border are 600 meters. However, since the incident did not take place within Turkey's territory, there is no mention of military restricted area practices in the region. Again, I'll give you written answers about it. There's a law on paying the damages of victims of counterterrorism, the Ministry of Internal Affairs...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0110par0357	She's not like that. Shouldn't those of you who are in charge be conceived in accordance with the Constitution 129?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0107par0358	Here, there are additional payments. It is made by the Ministry of Interior by the Governorate in Şırnak. Details will be given. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0361	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0363	Mr. President, of course we have a say in the chapters, but we, as groups, have come to an agreement as a courtesy. The Minister's response to our conversation on behalf of the group is completely unrealistic about the Uludere incident and does not contain any information within the scope of the investigation. I want to answer that because that's not the answer we've been given. That's not the law in the Republic of Turkey, that's not justice, that's not humanity, that's not conscience, that's not humanity.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0364	But the Minister's answer is... he's answering the question, Mr. Kaplan. If it's about teasing, why didn't he pick on her, or say anything, or pick on her?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0365	I also like the Minister. I mean, I really don't think...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0366	No, keep loving, darling, you can love, that's another thing... why did he pick on you, what did he say and pick on you?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0367	Mr. President, you've been listening.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0368	I'm listening, Mr. Kaplan. I have to ask, why?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0369	We talked about a responsibility for his massacre.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0370	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0371	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0372	He answered, so I'm asking why he teased you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0373	...his information on this matter is purely intended to mislead the public, and I'm going to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0374	I get it, but what did he say, and what did he say that was different from what you said? Say it, and I will promise you, if he has said anything other than what you say.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0112par0375	Mr. President, it's been a hundred and forty-five days since this investigation. I'd like him to leave in a hundred and forty-five days, let the Minister say...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0376	Mr. Kaplan, I don't consider it a taunt. I'll give you two minutes, though. There's no bullying involved. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0113par0378	I'll correct one misinformation.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0111par0379	Please, Mr. Tanal!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0114par0382	Look, if the conscience of this House passes, if it is thirsty in the face of the crime of humanity and acts as if nothing had happened at the age of thirty-four, if it can't remove those who ordered the bombs of our F-16 planes on the bodies of our people, then this Parliament has done the most unforgivable task of its life and its history. We say there's no right of justice, there's no right to black out evidence, there's no right to exonerate the perpetrators of the Roboski Uludere massacre, there's no law. The conscience of this House is about to expose those who committed this crime, bring them to justice, bring them to justice. Now, there's no reason to say this happened, and there's no reason to blow it all up here and there. You said national intelligence, you said national resources, who took that source, who evaluated it? The Prime Minister gave the order? Which table, team, general, general, general gave it to me, who did it? Order... everyone is responsible for the chain from the one who hit the bomb's button to the top. The law is in charge of uncovering it. A hundred and forty-five days later, you didn't give one officer's name to the D.A. The prosecutor didn't listen to one officer, the prosecutor backed the government's efforts, which was involved in a biased approach under the covert investigation. You're up here saying, "Don't let the opposition speak." And woe to you, you're clapping for it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0115par0387	No evidence scribbling!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0114par0388	Can such a human being, such a conscience, such a right, such justice?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0116par0389	Why don't you judge the terrorists, Hasip? Every day, this country gives martyrs.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0114par0390	We'll have to pay for this sooner or later. He's gonna get paid for this. Whoever did this will pay. You owe humanity, and you have to work for it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0117par0391	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0116par0392	There are martyrs every day.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0114par0393	You will, you are.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0116par0394	Why don't you curse the terrorists?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0114par0395	You'll take it off... VII-SAN'S PLANS AND COMMISSIONS COME FROM THE COMMISSIONS
tbmm-2012-05-22sit04spe0118par0401	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a break from the merger until 8:45.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit05spe0118par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 248. The Commission and the Government? He's in position. Now, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit05spe0119par0006	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. In history, we live in a geography where all global power and empires covet. An extremely important and very dangerous geography is called Anatolia. We've lived on this land for a thousand years. Let us be free of our fears. The words such as "not knowing this geography" are ignorance, shortsightedness. The Sumerians, who lived in Asia Minor before us for thousands of years, were the Hitites. Have you seen a man today who describes himself as a Muslim, a Christian? In that case, in this geography, you have to keep your guard up. The only way to survive in this geography is to keep a strong army on standby and to assess our own safety with the concept of regional and global security, which is to go on the road, saying that there's a zero problem, not to go into a lumpy with our neighbors first, and especially not to push their armed forces away and weaken them in terms of physical possibilities and morale. During the AKP, however, there was a process in which the Turkish Armed Forces, which had been beaten by a number of hearsays, were originally unsubstantiated, and the AKP and the AKP pro- AKP forces were stripped of the flagship of lynching policies and destructive propaganda, where age was burned along with the drought. In the fight against terrorism, the forces that defend the country, and the terrorists who are ungratefully gunning for their country and their nation, were put in the same trap, called terrorists, and the security forces who fought terrorism were left alone, I'm afraid. Even the smallest, most innocent mistakes have been severely punished, and on the one hand, the Habur disaster is not subject to the slightest prosecution and punishment, while the commanders fighting terrorism have been brought to trial. The harmony and balance between the subordinates have been corrupted, and the sense of trust and justice among the members has been damaged. The government's army and police, the government's army, have been asked to be made police. It has been tried to be used as the subject of political policy and the object of abuse. Not just among our country's institutions, but in the world, the respected Turkish Armed Forces and law enforcement have been played as shallow and dangerous games, such as ordinaryization, demeaning them, and thus subjugating them to themselves, adding power to their political power. Our armed forces and law enforcement forces, which guarantee our government and our nation's safe future, must be removed immediately from being the subject of politics, giving up the cheapness of getting political credit by beating them up. This is for those who appear to be defending both power and Turkish Armed Forces and on the other hand seek a compromise with terrorism. Dear lawmakers, there are many things to be said during the negotiations of the law, but I would like to address some of them on behalf of the National Movement Party Group so as not to get out of the frame and not to get away from the solution to problems. According to Article 10 of the Military Law, the children and brothers of those who lost their lives during the fight against terrorism are not drafted unless they are under arms. The Turkish Armed Forces and law enforcement members are unfortunately unable to benefit from this practice, as if their suffering and suffering were different. The officer, the Petty Officer, the Petty Officer, the Chief of Staff, and the Chiefs of Staff, should be recognised immediately as well as those of the police. For this, the National Movement Party has proposed law, awaiting the government's support. A national force in the fight against terrorism is also our temporary village rangers; they are martyrs, they are veterans, they are struggling hard with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) where they are, and their wages are extremely inadequate. In this regard, the National Movement Party has made an offer in favour of our brothers and sisters, asking temporary village rangers to be paid 165 lira security compensation each month, and to increase the monthly allowance by at least 20 per cent, depending on those who have been relieved of their duties at the age of fifty-five. Dear lawmakers, our brothers, who are fighting for their country, their nation and their flag, expect you to support this proposal from the National Movement Party. With over 94 thousand decent and 120,000 pensioners, our petty officers have very serious and accumulated problems. These problems have been repeatedly expressed by the National Movement Party, but in its ten-year rule, the AKP unfortunately ignored our petty officers. As the National Movement Party, we have also made a commitment to the election declaration, to improve their salaries, especially the payment of security compensation, to be done with degree and phase procedures as part of their studies, to be granted severance of office and duties, to be used by petty officers without paying the pensioners and the members of the MİS. The Nationalist Movement Party has made these statements in its group proposal today, but as always, the AKP has ignored this call. I think the petty officer community, who found a million people with their families, of course, is going to evaluate this insensitivity. Another law proposal is that the payment of $100 per month to members of the MIT and law enforcement and pensioners will be raised to $200 per month, and without that payment, the officer, petty officer, expert police officer, and chief of staff will also benefit. In addition, this payment must be updated every year at TUFE. Our veteran gendarmes have problems, too, dear MPs. Last week we visited the Association of Retired Specialist Gendarmes (EMUJAD) as the National Movement Party. An offer of law was made and presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And we have very serious suggestions in this proposal to minimize problems. Expert gendarmes have been accepted at least as high school graduates but are starting as if they were a middle school graduate and retiring; there is a clear violation of the law. While these brothers and sisters practice their professions, they are not allowed to practice at the university. The right of training of officers and petty officers to be counted from occupational periods is not granted to qualified gendarmes. Two-thirds of additional indicators for petty officers are being applied as of their degrees. We expect the government to support our offer to address these unjust practices, so that injustices against these children of our country can be eliminated. They expect to benefit as much from OYAK as petty officers from housing, social facilities and army houses. Specialists have requests, too. The Specialists' Law today has been inadequate and needs to be renewed. The contract renewal limit of specialists must be increased from 45 to 55. Due to their medical reports and disciplinary procedures, these contracts are not extended at times as arbitrary. This application must be reviewed. Expert gendarmes are unable to receive a higher salary than their seniority. If we say their salary hasn't increased in 15 years, we're not exaggerating. They need to be able to benefit from the opportunities of higher vocational education and to make an example of themselves. On the other hand, we have repeatedly said that there are problems with civil servants who work in our armed forces and in our police department. It couldn't even solve the very right problems that were not incompatible with human dignity. I'm not repeating these problems again to avoid these problems, but Mr. Secretary, especially when it comes to continuing the transition to institutions -- which you promised here, to solve -- it shouldn't be too difficult to solve the problem of service, housing, and mobbing at work. As a ministry, it is possible for you to make a statement and comfort those who have found the tens of thousands. We said we were following these problems. Whether you like it or not, we'll continue to remind you of the solution. Here's to the police. First of all, the police are the police of our state, not the government; they are one of the key points of contact with the citizen of our state. As a result of your biased, biased, and biased practices in your power, our police began to have a distance between the nation and the nation. Police transport and management are different, police being put under political orders are different. He must return immediately from this dangerous course of action. A week before the elections, on July 15, 2007, the first thing they would do on television after the election was to improve the rights of the police, but it did not come to our police. The prime minister, who turned the MIT president from the courthouse in three days, has kept the police waiting for years. If you're sincere, the National Movement Party has a law proposal, come, support and we'll fix it. High school graduates should be able to retire in the first degree, security services should be increased, additional indicators should be improved. There's no way we can tell one of our security forces from the other. Partial improvements, according to conjunctural fluctuations, lead to more injustices. In this regard, the solution to this problem requires a complete approach and balance. I hereby declare that we are prepared to support such arrangements as the National Movement Party. In the current bill, a number of invalid needs are being eliminated, and despite their shortcomings, the Military Law is being updated. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I say that we are not opposed to this law, that we are awaiting support for our reform motions, and that I salute the High Assembly.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit05spe0120par0030	Thank you. Ahmet Toptaş, MP of Afyonkarahisar who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the first chapter.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit05spe0121par0033	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group over the first chapter of the First Section of the Law on Change in the Military Law and Some Laws. I salute the High Council. Dear friends, in my speech on the group proposal of the MPP, I was referring to some problems, which were incomplete, and I had the opportunity to complete them as well. In the last part of my speech, I told you that the hunger strike of retired officers and petty officers was on the third day of the hunger strike. What do these people want? Dear friends, Turkey has suffered many blows. From the coups, soldiers, civilians, ordinary citizens, we've all had our share of our share. We've made a variety of demands on fixing their living conditions, returning their rights, resolving their victims, and we continue to make demands. As the draft law was discussed, I thought we should address the problems of people who were victimized as soldiers. Resen has been retired or discharged from the army, and there has already been an arrangement regarding petty officers and students, and some of them have been extradited, but many of them have not been returned, and so far there has been no solution to the problem. What's the matter? Dear friends, some rights have been extradited to people who have been discharged from the army or retired by their AGE decisions, but those who have done less than the crimes of those who committed the AGE decisions, who have been referred to disciplinary pensions by their ranking superiors, and those who have been discharged from the army have been granted a legal path. They have not been granted any rights, and the courts have rejected the cases they have filed in accordance with the records given by their registractors. For one thing, imagine a person who's retired for disciplinary action, retired by a record manager's report. This person -- we have so many examples -- I want to talk about one of them -- is a disabled person with a child, and her treatment is very severe, her treatment is very severe, her care is very heavy, she borrows from her right to take care of her child. This petty officer, who received at least five or six achievement certificates, was retired because he was unable to pay the costs of his child's care, and because he was disciplined, he owed a lot of money on this discipline. Now, there are people who have been retired by the AGE decision; there are serious charges against them, there are concerns that they may be involved in acts to break the order; there are people who have been retired on serious charges of violations of military tradition. However, when the situation of the other was assessed, the difference between the pension of a person who was in a difficult position because of his child's child's care and because he was in a lot of debt, the pension of others was returned to those who were retired by the age decisions, while he was expelled from the army and left on the street alone with his child. We have to find a solution to their problems. When we said this, some of our fellow members of the Commission said: "There are so many sacrifices in this matter that you can't find all the resources of these victims separately and find solutions to them separately. " Now, look, on the one hand, you put this person on the street for a crime that was very simple, not even a punishment, not even a criminal offense. It has no place for law, so diverse that we can't categorize it. For us, it means running away from solving this problem. Their files are reviewed one by one; since this country is turning into a state of law -- if you claim -- then we're moving on to a forward democratic order -- then at least they'll be re-examined for their victims, and a decision will be made to determine whether or not they've been wronged. At least that's the way it's said: we got your file back, we re-examined it. Yes, it is justified that you be removed from the army. We are returning your rights. Now, many of these people are very victimized and miserable because of the same simple events, even because of the unnecessary obsession with the head of records himself -- we know those times very well. I just told you in my speech, they've had three days on hunger strike today, so they're still on hunger strike. You have to take care of these people's problems. That's why I'm telling Mr. Secretary, Mr. Commissioner, and the fellow officials in the bureaucracy: please, do a serious investigation of these matters and come forward with an offer to resolve their problems and we'll all support this offer and we'll all go through these sacrifices together. On the other hand, he has other problems. There's a very serious problem with the sergeants. Dear friends, some legal arrangements have been made, which seem to be acceptable to expert sergeants, such as the arrangement that the person who left as an expert sergeant can be assigned to public duties. The two-year sergeant doesn't feel safe there, so his contract isn't renewed or he's leaving the military. He'd been recruited by the Ministry of Interior before, he'd been recruited by the Justice Department staff, he'd been recruited by the Ministry of Health staff, and now they're not getting those for the ministry staff. They were right not to take it because when we went to Osmaniye Prison to study it, we found out that these were the individuals assigned to be "robocop." So when he returns, his psychology does not really become available to serve in a prison, to serve in a health institution, for two years, three years, four years, five years, five years. If you try to run these things without rehab, you don't get results, you get failures, and then you don't hire them in their departments. What are these people doing now? They're loading the municipalities in Turkey, I've quit being an expert sergeant, give me a job in the municipality. Besides, specialists have problems. Specialists don't think they're safe either, fellas. So you can't keep people who don't see a future, who don't see a guarantee, who work, who work in this institution, who take a lot of risks, who don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, and who don't know what's going to happen. Therefore, I think it is also imperative that they be restored to a status that will correct the conditions of their lives and secure their rights. Other than that, I've just told you, we've made a legal arrangement about the petty officers, about the police, about how they've been upgraded to the 4th degree of the 1st degree, but since their indicators remain the same, they haven't caused a serious increase in salary. So, the indicator that we're giving now, in public, in public, in public, in public with the police, in military opinion, is that because we're supposedly not raising the indicator, we're giving the person we're giving a $4 raise a month, and we're not giving them anything. So I don't think this is consistent with the seriousness of the House, with the seriousness of the state. There's a lot of legal flaw in that. From time to time, we've submitted amendments, which I believe will come to the House. And when these motions come to the House, let's all support the efforts of all party groups to improve jointly. Let's take the problems of both the police and the soldier -- the officer, the expert gendarme, the senior officer -- as a whole, because these are guarantees of our safety, guarantees of the security of this country. I think if we leave these without their own security, they'll stop being collateral that we can trust them with. With these feelings, I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit05spe0122par0047	Thank you. Talks on chapter one are complete. Now, the items in chapter one, if there are any, I'm going to submit them to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm having read and processed... I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0122par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 109th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue the talks of Bill 248. The commission and the government are in place. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In addition to the 248 Law on Military Numbers and the 1 9th Amendment of the Law on Some Laws, we propose and propose the addition of the declaration of the law on the basis of the official hospital birth records (except on the basis of the fact that "age changes" in Article 81 of Law Number 1111, which has been replaced with Article 15 of the framework. Mustafa Elitaş Hasan Ören Sinan Aydın Aygün Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0123par0012	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0122par0013	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0124par0014	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0122par0015	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to take into account the military procedures of the age-designation, based on official hospital records, after entering the military era of the 1111 Act. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second chapter includes Articles 31 to 56, including Articles 32, Articles 9, 10, 11 and 12, and Article 56, Article 28, and Article 29. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Orhan Düzıt MP.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0125par0039	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you with love and respect. Yes, my dear friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the amendment of the Military Law. But before we talk about this law, there are a few things I'd like to share with you. First of all, my dear friends, we have soldiers in the hands of the organization who have been kidnapped for nearly six months, we have policemen, we have candidates for the governor, but there's no word from the government. My dear friends, if the government of this country, the army, the military, the police, can't get their children back, what are we talking about here, what are we arguing about? It is also said that these children have been advised by their parents not to talk about it. Now, imagine -- you all have children -- the terrorist organization has kidnapped your child, and you can't tell anyone, you can't tell anyone what's wrong. I hope that the government will make the necessary attempts and that these children will be reunited with their families as soon as possible. Congressmans, there was a verdict very soon. What was said? Yes, you can call the head of the terrorist organization, it's a personal discussion. It's a judgment, is it negotiable, but I'd like to tell you that three days ago, we buried a 20-year-old child at the Tokat Zile. It was torn apart by PKK's mortar. Mr. Attorney General said it's normal and we should get used to it. I also ask the Minister of Justice to come with me one day, and you will get used to it. Let him say so, and I will congratulate him. We won't get used to it, my dear friends, we won't get used to our 20-year-olds being buried in the ground, I want to make it clear. Yes, we're here today to improve the rights of soldiers, to make some changes to the draft law. But none of my fellow speakers mentioned the union rights of soldiers and policemen. I thought we were supposed to settle on September 12th! We trust our doctor, we trust our engineer, we trust our workers, we allow them to form a union, but we don't trust our soldiers and our police. Why? They're doing security work. Congressmans, everyone's work is important to them. Why can't a soldier be a union man, why can't a cop be a union man? Why shouldn't they protect their own rights? Now that we're on the side of democracy in this country, we're on the side of freedom, why don't we ever talk about those rights of our friends? So, my dear friends, again, I offered you a law on the basis of my being a physician, because I really think it's a very serious injustice at this point. There's no return of funds for healthcare personnel. Now think about it, you're a military nurse, your civilian nurse friends get a return fund except for you, and you get about twice as much. But you work in military discipline, you work in heavier, harder conditions, you're not paid for return capital. I hope our great Assembly will support this bill when it comes to our House, and the nurses, health officials, and other medical staff who work in GATA will also receive funds from return capital. Again, my dear friends, they've been looking for you ever since this law came up, our fellow military personnel have given us some of their demands. I, as a member of the National Defense Commission, would like to repeat this once again and do our best to make sure that our friends work under better conditions. They say, for example, there's a very serious injustice to distribution of the Lojmans. They also said the numbers: "The officers are 55 per cent, the petty officers are 40 per cent, the seniors are 22%, and the civil servants benefit 2.5 per cent of the housing. Of course they have military requirements, it's natural to have officers as a priority, but I think it's a very serious injustice to have such a serious gap between these classes. Again, my friends, in the Military Law, we set a twenty-nine-year-old limit, but I think there's one thing that we've all missed: think of medical doctors, they finish medical school around 24, 25. We're sending our friends to the mandatory service immediately after him. He's going into residency -- he's now being extended into residency, you know, four years, five years, six years, seven years of residency -- he'll come back when he's twenty-nine years old, forgetting what he learned when he came back! That's why I think this 29-year-old limit must be changed for medical doctors. Otherwise, these friends won't get their education properly, and I have to be clear about that. Again, my dear friends, the petty officers who retired between 1979 and 1992 have a demand to receive a pension from the indicator in the 1st degree. They've been passing this on to us for days now because these people are complaining about not being able to read, not being able to support their children. I think we can make amends on this with the motions given by our House. Also, there's a 90-day weather change problem with specialists. We're all human, you get in a car accident, your leg breaks, it doesn't heal in three months. When these people get three months of air change, their contracts aren't re-established, so they're out of a job. And I think it's a very serious problem, and I believe that corrections should be made in this House. I hereby salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0052	Thank you. The talks on chapter two are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the second section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. I submit Article 31 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 34 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 35th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 41st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 42: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary clause of Article 42: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary clause of Article 42: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit to your votes the interim clause of Article 42: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0127par0070	Mr. President, there's not enough of a decision!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0071	Thank you. There are two motions in Article 43, which I shall have read according to the order of arrival, and according to their contradictions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change Article 43 of the Law on Military Law and Changes in Some Laws in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Husband "The subcommittee (B) of Article 36 of Article 657 of State Officers Law dated 43 - 14/07/1965 and under Section B) has been added (c) order (d) to follow the (b) subcommittee of the subdivision (3), and is ranked in the following (c) order (d). "c) To the highest degree of I pearl, who are highly educated of what is considered above," Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly This is the 43rd draft of the current 248 rows. We would like to add the following statement to the clause. ▪ 1. It's a 4. Retired members of the Security Services class, pensions are organised according to 3600 additional indicators. Alim İkl Seyfetttin Yilmaz Mehmet Şandir Ali Öz Sinan Oğan Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0128par0089	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0090	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0129par0091	We disagree. It needs further work, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0130par0092	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0093	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to address the victims of members of the law enforcement class, who have already retired and will then retire. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and change Article 43 of the Law on Military Law and Changes in Some Laws in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends "MEDDE 43 - 14/07/1965 has been added (c) order (d) to the subdivision of Article 36 of the Common Sentences (B) section of State Officers Act No. 657, with the following (c) order (d). "c) To the highest degree of 1st degree, those who are highly educated of what is considered above," Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0131par0104	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0105	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0132par0106	We agree, sir. It's a technical correction. The term "high-schoolers" is added.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0133par0107	Let the reason be read.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0108	I'm reading the reason: Degrees and levels that can be raised by law enforcement class personnel are intended to be paralleled to other service classes personnel, which are subject to the Law of State Officers No. 657. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 43: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Members of parliament, there is a motion for a new interim clause violation. As they know, the proposed bill or proposal is the fourth clause of Article 87 of the Civil Code, which does not exist in the commission text of the law, but requires a change of a clause that is very closely related to the bill and proposal, and will be held as a new clause on the proposals which the commission has already attended. Therefore, I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission joins in the motion, mostly with 14 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added as article 44. Article 44-14/07/1965 of State Officers Act No. 657, under Article 43 (KHK) re-organised under Article 527 of Article 527, entitled "VII. The Security Services Class has been changed in the following way. "Third Security Services Class members can rise to the last level of the 1st degree." VII. EMNITS PRODUCTIONS SINFILE DERECTION A) Police Director 17,000 B) President of the Inspection Board, President of the Police Academy, 1,5800 Deputy Directors General Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir Police Five of their principals and First Class Security Directorate staffs C) Apartment Presidents, 1. Law Counsel and Other Class 1 5300 D) Their staff is included in this class and the Chief Constable and 1 4800 Those who have won the title of Chief of Police 24,000 (e) Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, Senior Superintendent, 1,3600 High-school students from the police department and the police department, 2 3000. Mr. Commission, do you agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0134par0154	Mr. President, we can't participate because we don't have a majority.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0155	Since the commission did not agree with the motion in the majority, I'm dismissing the motion from the process. I submit Article 44 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 45th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 46th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, there's a motion for a new clause violation, and I'm going to process it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following clause be added as Article 47 to the draft Law shall be changed in some Laws under the Law of Military Law 248. Mehmet Şandir Nevzat Korkmaz Yusuf Halaçoğlu The 1st amendment (c) of Article 36 of Law 47-926 (c) was added to the application of medicine at the Gülhane Military Medical Academy to come after the declaration of the education of the Academy of Academys of Harps. Does Mr. Commission agree with the motion in general?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0135par0168	We can't join because we don't have a majority, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0169	I'm going to remove the motion from the process because there's no absolute majority. I submit the 47th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 48th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on Article 49 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 49 of Law Bill 248 be changed as follows. Mustafa Elitaş Ramadan Can Ahmet Arslan Article 49 - 926 of Article 114 has been changed into Article 114, the 15-year-old declaration of the Law, which is 10 years old, twice the number of times the number of times the number of times the number of times the number of times the number of times the number of times the number of years. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0136par0181	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0182	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0137par0183	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0138par0184	Motive...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0126par0185	I'm having it read. It was intended to equalise the mandatory service period for students from foreign military schools and students from the Harp Schools. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 49th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 51st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 52nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 55th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In addition to Article 56, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In addition to Article 56, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The votes of the substances in the second section are complete. We now begin the talks of section three. The third section includes the interim Articles 57 to 81, including Articles 33 and temporary 34, under Article 58. Arif Bulut, Antalya MP who asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the third chapter.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0139par0203	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding Military Law 1111 and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, with this law, many chronic problems have been resolved, but all problems with the Turkish Armed Forces are not over. As a member of the National Defence Commission, we received many letters and applications. What they have in common is that because of their beliefs, because of their ideological and political views, a number of military personnel have been cut off from military ties due to simple disciplinary offences, and serious rights losses have been revealed. After the May 27th 1960 coup, this was almost paranoid until today, but yesterday, the victims of their beliefs took their place because of their ideological views, even secular, democratic republic principles. Although the hierarchy and authority of the Turkish Armed Forces are fundamental, this structure should not violate the rule of law. There is a public opinion on the connections of some congregations and Turkish Armed Forces, especially the security and structures of the Gulen congregation within the Turkish Armed Forces, which is fundamentally true, how accurate that belief is, all of this needs to be made clear. Could there be two forces fighting among the Turkish Armed Forces? Could there be an internal military reckoning that we don't know about? Almost all of those who report before the investigations and arrests, such as Ergenekon and the Sledgehammer, are officers. Is there another army in the army? What does that mean, and who's dealing with who? Could there be two armies belonging to a Chief of Staff? Where is the congregation and how effective is it in this arrangement? Who are the people planning to assassinate Mr. Arinc, what have they become, what have they come up with in the cosmic room? Is the Turkish Armed Forces, whose main mission is to protect the country from external and domestic threats, being manipulated personally by external threats that must be fought? Is that possible? Is it common for us to give so many martyrs in terrorist cases, especially PKK terrorism? If not, who should we question, the government or the Turkish Armed Forces personally? Why are we losing so much in the face of terror? If the rights of civil servants are taken into account and the rights of military personnel are organised according to them, then the rule of rule of law must be carried out in parallel with them. The ongoing sacrifices must be prevented, and the implementation of these personnel after this should be followed by the rule of rule of law and by the principle of maintaining human dignity and dignity. Veterans injured in the same terrorist attack shouldn't be treated under different circumstances, with their rank in mind, at least funerals under equal circumstances. Even places where food is eaten are different, different. The families left behind by our martyrs must be protected and protected. Our veterans must have the respect they deserve. The pension of OYAK members must be rearranged. A contract officer's mandatory time of service must be equated with the regular officers'. All of this needs to be fixed. Our army must be transparent. Governments shouldn't design the army in their own way. In antidemocratic practices, the army must not be turned into a pawn. The rule of law must be based. The army must be kept out of politics and protect its identity. I hereby salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0140par0215	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group on the third chapter, the member of the Hatay MP is Şişek Uçük.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0141par0218	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party over the third chapter of the draft law on the amendment to some laws. I salute your high council. The third part of the draft law organises the autonomy and social rights of contracted educators who will serve in military schools, with veterans, petty officers and contract officers. As of May 2012, our Petty Officers, which constituted the backbone of the Turkish Armed Forces, have counted 95,000, and 24,700 veterans, and 40,515 veterans, have been waiting for years to resolve their problems in great dignity and maturity. Petty officers, who were more than three times the number of officers in our Turkish Armed Forces, complained that even among the most important problems expressed by the veterans and experts in various areas, their rights remain at the level of middle school graduates, and their education in additional indicators and phases and degrees has been unrequited. At the top of the most positive aspects of this bill, passed by the National Defence Commission, in addition to the annual and alibis of our experts, the fact that his wife and child are given birth, that he and his wife and his child are married, that he or his wife are allowed to be allowed to die, at the request of their parents or brother, and that in case of severe illness, he should be given a monthly leave of residence for up to six months, in the form of his or her wishes, and that he should not be considered a period of contract without a monthly leave. Again, it is one of the main factors in our support of this bill, in exchange for higher education and degree progress. However, the heart would have wanted to make changes in this bill, instead of finishing the change in the Law on Private and Private Laws, instead of completing the change in allowances for 1 Euro, on the one hand, Mr. President of the State Gardens Bey proposed, and I offered as a legal proposal, that the private and private officers would be given the same amount of allowance as the officer's pension that began in accordance with the State Officers' Law. In addition to a community of citizens who were over thirty years old, who would be able to do their military service at a cost of 30,000 euros, the law would sit on our agenda in style as a debt from the state to people who had to go to the army for minimum wage and who had to go to the army because they couldn't afford it. Dear lawmakers, trust the friend, we welcome the efforts of the heroic Turkish army, which gives fear to the enemy, to change the missing parts of the legislation in the face of the changing conditions of the day. However, our support for the regulation should not mean that we will support the government's policies that end the soldier's morale motivation. If there are coupters among the Turkish Armed Forces, they need to be removed, that's true, but the existence of the Turkish Armed Forces cannot be denied, its dignity, its credibility cannot be damaged. Our army is the apple of the eye. Our army is the nation's army. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to touch down on another matter. Last Friday, we received the news of the testimony of Brigadier General Erhan Dikmen in Hatay. May Allah accept their testimony and withhold His mercy from them. I hereby offer my condolences and patience to the families of our fallen officers. Just a few months ago, Deputy Prime Minister Brünt Arinc was on a television show in Burma, where our prime minister instructed us to clear the Amoses. Every member of the organization had their hands broken, they were destroyed, they were caught with their weapons. I hope we will never hear of another attack from the Amanos. He made a statement, and the day before the treacherous ambush, the entity writer Emre Cusk pointed to the Amanos in an article from America, and the expected attack took place the next day. Now, my dear friends, we said from this platform, we said in our province, we said on many platforms, that Hatay would have to be strengthened by law in dealing with terrorism under very different circumstances, that Hatay would have to be a special status province, and that the protection system in Hatay would have to be reviewed. Where will any of us, of course, get intelligence with a protection system that doesn't get a dollar's salary, no social security? Where's it coming from? The commander in charge of the intel will only rise to his side of the mountain, where he will be a martyr. Here, you need to isolate these. We'll have to look into that. In this regard, the cries need to be heard, they need to be heard. These are very sensitive issues. These issues should also be studied and a board must be formed for this. Hatay can't take any more of this in the fight against terrorism. Well, we've all been through the Fourways together this past year. The Fourways are a district that has killed at least 70 citizens, 70 civilians. We need to be very careful with these things, and we have to re-examine and evaluate this system. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to discuss another matter concerning Hatay again, regarding military matters. Last January, four hours of Israel flying above military facilities located at Hatay's Kurıkhan location and in the region were identified as Heron. These are being discussed today about Cyprus. Now, over Hatay, the Herons, the Herons of Israel, are traveling around for four hours, and besides, there is a report in a newspaper that says that the Herons were not deliberately shot down by the armed forces, nor were they deliberately interfered with. Now, that's what we asked Mr. Secretary of State. When? 17/01/2012. There's no answer. We asked again at 11/04/2012, and there's no answer. What are we asking? Who here is neglectful - the State Department, the Ministry of National Defense, or the armed forces? Someone has to pay for this. No. Now, there are times when you're going to have to chase Israeli planes through the sky of Cyprus. Instead of chasing them in the skies of Cyprus, we must chase them in Hatay, within our borders. Four hours, a foreign country, and a country where we're in trouble, they're flying around. And someone has to pay for that. If the armed forces are guilty, or if the armed forces have made the necessary notification to the Foreign Minister, they will give it; the government will give it, Mr. Foreign Minister Davutoglu will give it. Now, we're going to have to talk about the rights and other issues of our precious soldiers here, and we're going to have to bring one thing up. The Turkish Armed Forces are our honor and honor, and the Turkish Armed Forces await our borders, and the Turkish Armed Forces await our flag; above all, it is a sacred institution that awaits our borders, our flag, and defends them. Flag is a very important thing. I'm not in the mood to describe what the flag is, what it means, to the highly valued MPs of this Grand Assembly, but I'd like to ask a question while Mr. Omar Dinçer Bey, our Minister of National Education, is here. In this flag poem, I'll dig the grave of those who don't look at you with my own eyes. / I'll break the nest of the bird that flies without greeting you. And I asked this question, and our Minister's answer is the text taken in the textbooks of Turkish literature, language and expression... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It must be consistent with the statements given under the text's selection. In a manner of speaking, it should bring good habits. In a poem that meets the flag and the love of the country, which will lead to negative thinking and actions by acting in his judgment, there are verses that are thought to be misunderstood by students at this level. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0142par0235	Mr. Ugly, please...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0143par0236	Let them remove the only female monster you call civilization from the invasion march, and be done with it. I mean, it's a shame, is there an answer? It's a shame!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0141par0237	And to expect our Minister to make a statement on this matter on behalf of Congress, on behalf of the nation...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0142par0238	Mr. Ugly, please...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0144par0239	The Minister isn't even listening.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0145par0240	Mr. Secretary, come in, please.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0146par0241	I apologize very much to Mr. President. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0147par0243	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0148par0244	Mr. Secretary, please respond to the House.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0149par0245	I know when to answer, don't worry.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0150par0246	We're not worried about that.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0148par0247	It's a shame. It's a shame. Well, then check out the anthem.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0151par0248	Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0152par0249	Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, sir, to all of you. Is there a legitimacy to the fact that former Chief of Staff, İlker Basbug, faces a terrorist charge? If there is a reality, did the military staff in our presence ever follow the instructions of Mr. Ilker Basbug? The question 3) What are the instructions that Mr. Ilker Basbug gave to the army that constitute a criminal element? Question 4) Due to what happened to Mr. Ilker Basbug, has it cooled off to the Turkish Armed Forces while serving in the military? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0153par0256	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0154par0258	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, of course, it is not our duty to take the place of the judge on a matter that has been brought to trial and decide which is a crime and which is not a crime... If we had a law-abiding deputy, the matter would be on trial, we'd have to wait for the outcome. We'd like to think that it's in everyone's best interest to see everyone who's served our country through this ordeal as soon as possible. Let's wait for the judgment; you'll see what it isn't, and we'll see. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0153par0260	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0155par0261	He teased me, Mr. President, and I'd like to make a statement. He said, "If only he had a respected MP." First, the Minister must use the clean language. If he was a law-abiding Minister, he'd have to answer all the questions I just asked.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0153par0262	Mr. Tanal, Mr. Secretary has responded.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0155par0263	First you have to have a minister who respects the law, Mr. President. I'm being teased about this, if you'll excuse me, sir...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0153par0264	No, why did he pick on you, Mr. Tanal? We all listened.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0155par0265	He said, "If only he had a respected MP." A minister who respects the law uses a clean language, and a minister who respects the law will have answered the questions we just asked about compensation.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0153par0266	Here you go, Mr. Tanal. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0155par0270	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I bid you all good evening. Mr. Secretary, of course, the case has been brought to justice for the questions we've asked. Now, regarding the instructions... you have a valuable member of the Turkish Armed Forces. The Chief of Staff, and so far... who chose this? President under the 117th Amendment of our Constitution. They have also shared with the Prime Minister the very special secrets of the state. All the statements that have been made so far... are the same procedures that the Chief of Staff has done... as the Prime Minister has done. So what are we looking for here in Turkish criminal law? According to the Prime Minister's established law here, the Prime Minister is the head of all such institutions because this is the executive order of Article 4 of the Prime Minister's institutional code. So from this point on, the Minister's question has nothing to do with the judiciary or the matter. My request from the Minister is that this is a violation of the law... If he could use a clean language, I wouldn't have taken the time of his precious deputies. I thank the President for his right to make this promise. I bid you all good night again.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0156par0275	Thank you. VII-KAN'S PLANS AND COMMISSIONS [[Continue]] Mr. Turkoglu, come in.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0157par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I just received a note. I'd like to share some information with the High Council before I pass on this note. There is a concept called Antimilitarism. This concept means that military elements are driven from economics, from law, from community life, to reduce the influence, but the anti-terrorism policy, which your governments have recently implemented, unfortunately, has been transformed into military hostility rather than the concept of anti-militaryism. In this framework, the elements of hostility towards the Turkish Armed Forces also feast, where they can make various statements against the Turkish Armed Forces in their newspapers, magazines, and even on the parliamentary platforms. Now, according to my note, three years ago, three terrorists were taken dead in a terrorist shootout in Van County. One M16 from these terrorists, one from Kalesh and one from a police officer who was killed in Gevash, has been seized, but a letter to the republican prosecutor's office by an anonymous person has been issued, a letter saying that these terrorists were actually surrendering to the armed forces and executed by the colonel's orders, and in addition to that, there are now three officers, two sergeants, and two special officers from the Van province. Mr. Secretary, you are the Secretary of State of Defense, and you are the head of the elements in the fight against terrorism. In this frame, please take care of our soldiers; this is your duty. Please don't give away traitors trying to get a rematch from terror-fighting elements. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0158par0287	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0159par0288	Mr. Secretary, this is not judgment -- don't hide behind independent judgment -- this is revenge.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0158par0289	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0160par0290	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when there's a prosecutor working in the direction you want, you say we don't interfere with the prosecution. If a prosecutor doesn't work the way you want to, you dismiss them. I resent your attitude.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0158par0292	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. Not that there were any questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0161par0295	Mr. President, as a government, we want to make this country the most powerful country in the 21st century. A powerful Turkey... look, I've come from a new country, about 60 countries... and they've looked at Turkey with admiration. I also met with several NGOs in the United States at a meeting of Mr. President and Mr. Secretary of Foreign Affairs. We have not only the Turkish nation, but the hope of all the oppressed nations. In order for this nation to be strong, it has to have a strong economy, a powerful army. Other than that, we have no other effort. Turkey's star is shining because we have a strong economy and a strong army. Mr. Mayor said don't come as a judge. But in the end, it's not an administrative procedure. In the end, this judgment is for all of us, and if there's a flaw, we'll fix it, and if there's a favor, we'll support it.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0162par0296	Sir, please raise your voice as a representative of the armed forces. No way!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0161par0297	Look, the general rule is...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0298	Mr. Korkmaz, please...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0162par0299	Then the rematching will begin, so take care of them. That's not right!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0161par0300	No.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0301	Mr. Korkmaz, we don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0161par0302	Don't worry.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0303	Mr. Secretary, your answers...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0161par0304	Don't worry, it's our duty to make this country strong.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0305	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0164par0306	You do it with such round words, you answer! That's not possible!
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0307	The talks on chapter three are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the third section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. The commission has a request for a reduction on Article 57. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0165par0311	Mr. President, the additive on Article 57 is mistakenly written in the same order as the reduction error in the 6th row, in the 7th row. In that regard, we would like to have the 7th place written 915, 835, 760 and 705 to be corrected, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0312	Thank you. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on the interim Article 33, attached to 58, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Interim Article 33, which is added to Article 926 in the framework of Article 58 of the Law to change some Laws in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Husband Oya Eronat Hakan Sergeantoğlu Mehmet Mus Diyarbakır Bursa İstanbul Article 33 - Officers and Petty Officers who are still on duty at the time of this clause's execution are considered to be the basis of the monthly indicator tables replaced by the Law that violates this clause. Such actions will not be paid the difference in salary and salary for the past." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the addition of the following joke to Article 33 of the Interim Law, which is envisioned to be added to Article 926 with Article 58 in the framework of the Law on Change in Some Laws under the 248 Numbered Military Law. Mehmet Şandir Nevzat Korkmaz Alim Iş "Before the time this clause is in effect, the first joke of Article 36 (b) due to the study of medicine at the Gulhane Military Medical Academy has been redacted, according to the amendment (c) of Article 36, as the number of military personnel whose waiting period has been extended according to the order of Article 36 has been extended. However, due to the way they have been fixed in this joke, the difference in salary and other rights to the past is not paid. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0166par0329	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0330	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0167par0331	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0332	I'm reading the reason: The first amendment to Article 36 of Law No. 926 (c) has been taken into account and is intended to restore the rights of those who have been extended by the term of ranking, for reasons such as the failure to complete medical training at the Gulhane Military Medical Academy in the past, the cutting of their studenthood, the termination of their education, or the end of their education of their own will (b). Meanwhile, financial rights to the past were not paid in order not to bring financial burden to the budget. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Interim Article 33, which is added to Article 926 in the framework of Article 58 of the Law to change some Laws in the following way. Mustafa Elitaş (Kayseri) and his friends "Current Article 33- The officers and petty officers who are still on duty at the time of this clause's execution are considered to be the basis for the monthly indicator tables replaced by the Law that violates this clause. Such actions will not be paid the difference in salary and salary for the past." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0168par0342	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0343	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0169par0344	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0345	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to apply additional indicator tables added to Law 926 to officers and petty officers on duty. I submit the motion to your votes that those who agree... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. There's a motion on the interim Article 34 of Article 58, which I'm going to read and process: Interim 34, bound by Article 58 of the current Law Bill 248 rows. We submit the following statement to the article. The section of Law No. 926 on Petty Officers is applied in the following manner for 10 years. 1) Senior Staff Sergeant 1,800 of the II tier 2) Senior Staff Sergeant 1,700 3) Staff Sergeant 1,600 Nevzat Korkmaz Ali Ali Öz Oktay Vural Emin Çınar Seyfettin Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0170par0363	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0364	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0171par0365	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0366	I'm reading the reason: This arrangement aims to improve the rights of petty officers. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit Article 59 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 65th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 66th article that I'm having read and processed: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of Article 3466, which is added to Specialist Gendarme Code 3466, in accordance with the 248 Numbered Military Law and the amendment to some Laws. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Husband Oya Eronat Israel Barracks Huseyin Burge Article 1- Specialist gendarmes with the level of secondary school and equivalent school education have been introduced to Courtvelles No. 926, with a degree added to the existing degrees and levels of higher education in the period in which they are in office. Those who complete two years of higher education during their term in office are given one degree for those who complete one level, three years of higher education, two levels, four or longer courses. If those who have completed their higher education for two or three years and complete four or more higher educations during the time they are in office, the initiative will be carried out once and for all. Because of higher education, more than one degree of intuitive action can't be more than one degree. After completing two or more long-term higher education, the treatments of the qualified gendarmes are carried out by expert gendarmes, including the above - mentioned foundations. These actions are made validly from the date when the staff submitted and applied the official document on their graduation. However, they will not be paid a salary or salary difference for the past. Specialist gendarmes are not expected to be promoted to the first level of one higher salary with the initiative. Having a degree of progress like this won't require a promotion to the rank of rank. How to make progress in degrees and stages through the initiative and the approval authorities are shown in the Special Police Admissions and Records Administration. Expert gendarmes with high school and equal school degrees can move up to level six of the second degree. Those who have received third or later phases for the second degree as a earned rights monthly; those who have completed at least a year in the third level; those whose property registration records have a last six-year record average of 90 per cent of their entire record grade and are conditioned to do step-by-step progress on the 926 Law shall be upgraded to the first level of the Cetvel number Cetvel. In addition to Law No. 926, the Cetvell No. 926 has been implemented before being replaced by the Law, which violates this clause." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0172par0394	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0395	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0173par0396	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0174par0397	Motive...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0398	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to clarify how the introduction process will be implemented for veteran gendarmes with a secondary school and equal school education level, setting the date of the validity of the initiative and leaving the approval office to the regulation, as well as the manner of the introductions. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion accepted, I submit to your votes the 66th article: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a motion on the 67th article that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the exchange of the Interim 6th Amendment, which has been added to the Specialist Gendarme Law, under Article 67, under the Law of Military Order 248. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Salih Husband Oya Eronat H. Flag Türkoğlu Sevim Berker "Temporial Article 6- To those with a level of higher education level, one degree and one degree and one level, three years of higher education, to those with a degree and two degrees and four degrees, or more years of higher education, to those with a level of high education, to those with a level of high education, to those with a degree and a degree and a degree, to those with a degree and three years of higher education, to those with a degree and a degree and a degree, to those with a higher education level of three years, to those with a degree and two degrees and four degrees or more of higher education. These actions are made validly from the date when the staff submitted and applied the official document on their graduation. However, they will not be paid a salary or salary difference for the past. Specialist gendarmes are not expected to be promoted to the first level of higher rank, according to the provisions of this clause. Having a degree of progress like this won't require a promotion to the rank of rank. Those who are still in charge of the officer or petty officer by changing status will also benefit from the principle of the first joke. From those who have served as expert gendarmes, pensioners, pensioners, duty disability, or those who have been married and orphaned on the basis of their duties, their monthly months are redacted according to the Court of Ec-IX, on the basis of Article 926, on the basis of the deadline of which the duty of an expert police officer has ended. The monthly difference of monthly and bonuses is not paid due to this kind of redesigning," he told SETimes. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0175par0416	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0417	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0176par0418	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0419	I'm reading the reason: The motion aims to prevent loss of rights stemming from the intigation procedures of veteran gendarmes with secondary school, high school and equal education. I submit to your votes that those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 67th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 68 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 72nd Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit Article 73 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 74th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 75th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 76th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 77th Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 78th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. On Article 80, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0177par0438	Mr. President (a) we would like to request the addition of the statement, which is valid from Article 62 15/11/2011.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0439	With the redaction, I submit to your votes the 80th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. I submit the 81st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. The votes of the substances in the third section are complete.
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0178par0442	Mr. President, there's a clause in which the word "dizaza" is mentioned, which should be replaced as...
tbmm-2012-05-22sit06spe0163par0443	Note received, Mr. Commission. Thank you. The negotiations of the bill are complete. I submit the entire bill to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The bill has been adopted and legalized. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (May 23rd 2012) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (May 23, 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
