tbmm-2012-02-23sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I would like to ask the lawmakers to press vote buttons and report that they have been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to enter the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system have to deliver the roll-call ballots to the presidency in three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The opening roll call didn't have enough meetings. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll initiate roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three of our valued deputies off the agenda. There's a very serious hum in the General Assembly. If we can cut him down, we'll have a better chance of keeping track of the preparations the speakers have made, the words we'll be taking advantage of. Thank you. The first word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Necdet Ünüvar, a member of the Adana MP who asked to be mentioned as the anniversary of the Hodjalı massacre. Here you go, Mr. Unüvar.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0002par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, as Mr. President stated, is the 20th anniversary of the Hodja massacre that took place on February 26, 1992. First of all, Azerbaijan Türk, who died in Hodjalı, I begin by asking mercy for my brothers. Dear MPs, Hodjalı is a very important strategic point for Upper Karabagan. In fact, not a city with a very dense population, but a city of 10,000 people lived in 1992, where around 3,000 Azerbaijan Turks lived. But Hoxhalı has a special feature: The only airport in Upper Karabakh or Upper Karabakh was located in Hodja, a city particularly strategically highly military target. Therefore, from the first months of 1990, the Azerbaijan Turks, the Azerbaijan Turks, were constantly attacked by the Armenians, and in the end, about 1,300 Turks were massacred by the Armenian forces who arrived at Hodja on the night of February 25th until February 26th. And not just the Azerbaijan Turk, who was murdered here. Apart from the Turkish Azerbaijan, there were Ahiska Turks and other Muslim elements, which were targeted. Elin Memmedov, who was then the Viceroy of Hodja and currently MP of the Azerbaijan Parliament, talks about our citizens who were found here and were killed in eight hours without saying "old, women and children" and some of them fled to the mountains, where they froze to death. This Hoxhalı, dear friends, is the common problem of Turkey and Azerbaijan, so it is not only the problem of Azerbaijan or Turkey, but it is the problem of the entire Turkish world. I'd like to express a few thoughts on this occasion. One: Turkey is a rising star of the Middle East, even Europe, and Azerbaijan is a rising star of the world. It is clear that both Turkey and Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) must be stronger in both economic and political and international conjunctural terms. Second point: Turkey and Azerbaijan support each other on many international platforms and act jointly. But we need to tighten this cooperation. Now, when you're in the international arena, you get more effective results. Therefore, we need to go to a more collaborative and stricter collaboration. And we, members of the Turkish-Azerbaijan Friendship Group, are really trying to do our part at this point. Last month we had a trip to Azerbaijan, and we had very effective talks. In the first place, we met with several officials, including Mr. President İlham Aliyev, and the main element of our negotiation point was the bill that called the denial of genocide in France a crime, and we had many positive talks. The Hodja massacre, therefore, is remembered for many events in many universities, where the Turks of Azerbaijan have experienced events that have hurt us deeply, and in this sense, there are symposiums, panels. We, as parliamentarians, are signing many events. There will be memorial openings, marches, rallying meetings in Istanbul and Ankara this weekend. Our goal is not to make him forget what happened at Hodjalı and to learn from the events of Hodja, and to increase unity. Actually, I'd like to emphasize something about the incident in Hodja, and finish my words. There was a very interesting incident there. A tied-up Azerbaijan Turk, two Armenians who massacred our pregnant brother, flip a coin and flip a girl? They claim it's a man? And then, to prove their claim, they determine the sex of that poor woman by stabbing her in the stomach with a knife, and the interesting thing is, when they ask why they did it, they say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our grandfathers played the same game in Ağrı, Kars, and Erzurum, and we wanted to repeat it. On this occasion, I pray for the mercy of our brothers who have lost their lives in Hodjal, and may their authority be in heaven. I say, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0003par0029	Thank you, Mr. Unüvar. The second word off the agenda belongs to Mr. Reşat MP who wants to speak on the same subject. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0004par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken an off-the-book promise about the anniversary of the teaching massacre. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, members of parliament, on February 26, 1992, one of the greatest atrocities and massacres in human history took place in the city of Hoxhalı, Azerbaijan. In this genocide, 106 women, 83 children, 613 Azerbaijan Turks were killed by the Armenians, 478 people were severely injured; 1,275 were taken hostage and taken to other areas, many were killed there. Members of parliament, seven Azerbaijan cities have been occupied, particularly Karabakh, as Armenia has attacked Azerbaijan territory. During this occupation, tens of thousands of Azerbaijan Turks were killed. More than a million people were forced to migrate from their own land. The people who emigrated live under very difficult conditions in various cities of Azerbaijan, and wait by saying, "When will I return to my land?" These events at the edge of the 21st century, as we call the modern world, stand quietly as if nothing had happened. All NGOs around the world, especially the United Nations, don't make a sound, so when it comes to Turks, they keep quiet, they don't react at all. Recently, however, in France, the law proposal for alleged Armenian genocide was easily passed by parliaments full of unjust accusations. Living witnesses, victims of the Hodja massacre at Hodjalı. Let's ask them what happened, what happened to them. Let them tell us what they've been through in our House, and let us hear the truth from them for once. Congressmans, the Hodja genocide was committed in front of the whole world, and the perpetrators live in Armenia, many of whom are in charge of the higher ranks. Today's Armenian President Sarkisyan, who runs the genocide himself, has agreed to genocide in his statement to a British newspaper, which means he committed war crimes. In this case, every country around the world, every civil society agency that has so-called human values, must bring it up and surely, the genociders must be called to account. No one can make us forget the massacre of Teachers on February 26, 1992. We have to express the rights of these people all over the world who were killed for being Turks by telling them everywhere and everywhere. On February 26th, we are all from Hodja to Hodja all over our country. We are all Turkish. We all have to shout together with the slogans of Karabakh. We all have to speak to the world. As the National Movement Party, we have submitted our proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that February 26th would be considered the day of genocide, the day of the memorial of the massacre. This bill, which we gave in the 23rd term and also came to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was unfortunately not legalized, it remained tough. However, in the 24th term, we re-prepared this law proposal to our Parliament. We expect our proposal of the law to be met immediately in our Parliament and legalized. Congressmans, in our proposal of this law, our goal is to remind the world of this day, to declare to the world the right of our brothers who have been taken away from their right to live, to respond to the Armenian diaspora, which deceives, deceives, deceives the world with the so-called Armenian genocide lie. We feel the pain of this atrocities against the Turks of Azerbaijan in our hearts as a brother Turkish nation, and we strongly condemn this massacre. From the occupied land of Azerbaijan, we expect Armenia to leave immediately and answer to the victims. We look forward to the swift resolution of this human shame and the immediate abandonment of Azerbaijan territory to the Azerbaijans, but as far as we can see, when it comes to Turks, unfortunately, all NGOs, especially the United Nations, remain insensitive. And I strongly condemn this insensitivity and salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0005par0044	Thank you, Mr. Right. The third non-responsive statement is from Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0006par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, today is February 23, 2012. On February 23, 1920, Ardahan escaped enemy occupation 91 years ago, but Ardahan was under Russian occupation for 43 years, and he did not suffer such persecution, I will tell you now. Why would you say that? So we were in Russian occupation for 43 years. Our people took the Bard of Love, and went around for coffee, and said to the enemy, "We will not give a home when he is alive." He organized the people, as well as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and Kazim Karabekir Pasha, to escape the enemy invasion of Ardahan. However, right now, two natural gas lines pass through Ardahan, and one crude oil pipelines pass through. Two natural gas lines go through, 69 and natural gas go through our borders, from our territory to Ceyhan, and the raw oil pipe comes to Ceyhan, but Ardahan warms with turpentine, not natural gas. The shame of the 21st century! I mean, there's no such thing as cruelty. Right now it's minus 35 degrees. When I went to Lake, at twelve o'clock at night, at the side of the road to Salut, I looked at the screen of the car - 43. How about minus 43? I took a picture last year. I brought it here. I had a press conference.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0007par0051	Put the subject of this persecution and talk.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0006par0052	Now, this persecution is your current power.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0007par0053	Put the subject on, talk like that.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0006par0054	You want him to talk. Now, I'm going to say, why? Well, friend, we're the ones who suffer, look, we're the ones who suffer. If the natural gas explodes, if the crude oil pipe explodes, the villages will explode, the gentlemen here are warming up. It's not enough, it's a system that -- please, excuse me -- Mr. Minister of Energy preferred the Ardahan to the Greeks; he's gassing Greece, he's not giving it to us, brother. (CHEERING) Can such cruelty be done? Now, that's cruelty. Now, I'm telling you, lawmakers, there's gas on the way to Greece; there's 43 years of Russian incursion on the border, no people waiting for the Turkish flag. Well, that's a cruel thing to do, my friends, that's not a cruel thing to do. Now, economically, imported animal, imported meat, has already finished our peasant, forced him to emigrate, made him poor, finished. So I also told you last semester, brother, look, natural gas is passing through Ardahan. If you don't give me natural gas, I'll take Ardahan. I'll take the pick, I'll rip the pipe out. Then what happened? They spoke against me, and said, "You are encouraging the people to rebel, and you have committed a crime." If it's a crime, brother, it's a crime. I mean, can that happen? I mean, let me be Ardahan MP! Dear friends, I beg of you, members of lawmakers, the valued AK PARTI, look, listen to this, the most urgent of all, we're asking for a discount as well. So our population has fallen to 105, 105, with villages in Ardahan, the centre has dropped to 17,000. Yeah, what are we waiting for? So we're waiting for Armenia to invade the area. Is there such an injustice, my friends? Here, our friends told us about the massacre of Hoxhali. And I condemn those who have committed the massacre of Hoxhaali from here. We have 613 martyrs there, they're our martyrs. We need to take care of Azerbaijan. Azerbaijan would have to be taken back 20 per cent of the land and returned to Azerbaijan. The accounts of the Haçaali massacre must be asked, the accounts of 1 million people who have run away must be asked. Who's going to do all this? The government and the government will make dear friends. Look, I don't like to doodle. You know, my principle is that I'm trying to be extremely compromiseful, but I see that Ardahan has been in Russian occupation for 43 years, and he hasn't been persecuted like this. Yes, dear friends, this is the last thing I say from Edirne to Ardahan. I cherish the martyrs who made this land a homeland, and I pay all of you my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0008par0062	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0009par0066	Mr. President, thank you very much for your leniency first, and thank you for yesterday. Yesterday, there was a fire on the slope of Drifters. There, the shops of most of our Malatian citizens burned down, the businesses burned down, and I wish them well. They left Malatiah, and built these places of business by their own nails, by selling socks, by selling them. They've never owed anyone anything, paid taxes on their good days to the government, served in the military. And today -- Mr. Minister is here -- I wish to do what must be done to end the victimization of the tradesman's sacrifice there at the Uphill Ditch. We actually left today, and there's still smoke in that firehouse. I believe the government will do what is necessary. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0010par0069	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0011par0071	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the National Party of Action, we condemn the massacre of the Armenians 20 years ago against our Azerbaijan bloodlines with violence and hatred. We pray for the blessings of Almighty God to all of our martyrs who have died in this massacre. As Mr. Reshat True put it, we demand that every February 26th be celebrated or commemorated as the day of the Memorial. What we've given you on this subject, our group, is to remind you of the adoption of law proposals made by lawmakers here today. Besides, Ardahan is the year of victory. After 40 years of Russian occupation, I congratulate all Ardahans who have torn the enemy out of their land, and may Allah never show this cruelty again. Of course, as Mr. Öğüt. As Mr. Öğün said, we also want him to save the AKP from its tyranny. Therefore, I pay my respects to the Ardahans, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0012par0076	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0013par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, wish God's mercy to all of our martyrs who died in the struggle for salvation, particularly Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Kazim Karabekir Pasha, because of the 91st year of Ardahan's deliverance from enemy occupation, to congratulate our fellow citizens of Ardahan, to share their joys, to all of you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0012par0080	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0014par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. I also condemn the massacre of Hodja. And as a member of the Agriculture, Forest and Village Affairs Commission in our country, we have a government official, Mr. Minister, who has a problem with marketing products produced by potato manufacturers, apple producers, age fruit and vegetable producers in this winter. The Minister of Agriculture doesn't visit Congress much these days. In this regard, I ask that the problems of potato, apple, age and vegetable producers be expressed in the Council of Ministers, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0012par0084	Mr. Yeniçeri.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0015par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, celebrate the anniversary of saving our Bayburt provinces from enemy occupation, especially Ardahan, and, of course, I want to express our regret over the events that took place in Hoxhaali, where the Azerbaijan brothers were massacred. We should take this opportunity to express in particular that those who fail to condemn these massacres and killings, which today have been identified with concrete, video recordings, have been imposed on us that they don't know much about the 1915s. So I say it's our duty to remember Hojaali, and to put it on the agenda of our nation, literally, to bring it to the agenda of history.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0016par0089	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency is presented to the General Assembly. There's a motion to resign from the commission, I'm having it read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I'm a member of the CIT Commission and Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission with the Environment Commission, and the fact that other commissions and work on the Environment Commission coincide with the same dates from time to time, leads me not to contribute to commission work, and with that respect, I ask for my resignation from the Environmental Commission membership, and I respectfully submit your acceptance. 23.02.2012 It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the problems of small tradesmen and artists, such as the market, the local and street grocery store. And the TBMM Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has been trying to liquidate existing pharmacies and open pharmacies in markets, has now targeted grocery stores and other tradesmen who have been serving in markets, neighborhoods and streets for years. At the opening of a shopping mall, the Prime Minister's statement about grocery stores deeply upset all parts of society. Because from yesterday, in the daily life of the Turkish community, all small tradesmen and artists serving between markets, neighborhoods and streets, especially grocery stores, are of great importance. The time of the grocery stores, which we grew up with bread and milk, will not be closed now or in the future. For the past seven years, the president has now faced a new crisis against the small trades and artists and their families, including the grocery store, the tailor, the barber, the shoemaker, the butcher, the grocery store, and about 60 trade groups. The shopping malls of the age, of course, will be. No one's against places like this. But such organizations should be established in places that do not burden small tradesmen and artists. A small trade and artist, such as the market, the grocery store, the grocery store, the stalk, the tailor, was criticised by the prime minister, and has become one of the key elements of industry and trade in the socio-economic structure of society. Small businesses have a 98 per cent share in our country's total businesses, about 60 per cent in total employment, 37 per cent in total production, and 26 per cent in total investment. Our tradesmen and artists are of considerable importance and importance in our country's economic, social and political life. Today, the most negative effects of the crisis have been the tradesman and artistry. As a result of the decline of consumption, the tightening work volume has reached the extent that it is impossible for the tradesman to maintain his workplace. Failure to do business today has been a major problem for the tradesman. The tightening of business volume and the falling sales cause the tradesman to be unable to cover his mandatory expenses. The number of tradesmen and artists who can't pay their loans, who can't invest their tax and social security premiums has been increasing rapidly in recent years. The tradesmen and their artists were not well supported by the government against the economic crisis. The trade sector has been treated as foster children in addition to large businesses, and directly support packages for the tradesman and artist must be carried out immediately. Packages released by the government so far include support for large businesses. Of course, large businesses should also be supported. However, the trades and artists who work with them and their families make up one fifth of the country's population must not be forgotten. The booming of the economy can only be achieved with the opening of new businesses. A tradesman creates employment, cures unemployment. The tradesman who revitalizes the street where they open a business gives the area movement and life. The tradesman, who contributes to socialisation and economics, is a black-day friend of the officer, the worker, the farmer, the student, and the low-income. The tradesman comes to this community, lends money, gives money to the land on credit. As a result, tradesmen and artists are indispensable to this country, both economically and socially. These facts are facts that the whole community knows and accepts. These reasons are the Constitutional duty of the government to create policies that will support the development and growth of tradesmen and artists in accordance with these facts. Because the Constitution is 173. The article provides support and protection for tradesmen and artists. Therefore, the Constitution is 98, in order to determine the measures needed to be taken by investigating the problems of small business and artists such as the market, neighborhood, and street grocery store, grocery store, butcher, tailor, shoe repairman. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Mersin]] [[Kütahya]] [[Elizipt]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Inconceived]] 12) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzurum]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law on the Protection of Brands passed on January 28, 2009, when the Law on Law on the Protection of Brands was adopted on January 28, 2009, but its production and sale of counterfeit goods were not prevented and the reasons for increasing its economic size were identified by further investigations and the resolution of the Constitution was 98. Turkey's Grand National Assembly 104th of the Council of Ministers. And 105. In accordance with the terms of the matter, we would like to submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. It was published in 27124 of the Official Journal on January 28, 2009. It is stated in the law that without the brand owner's permission to use a brand or a similar brand to be identified, the brand will be used by the owner to sell, distribute, or otherwise place the brand of products that carry the brand, knowing or knowing that the brand was forged, or that it would be considered a violation of the rights given by the owner of the brand, or that it would be violated by the third party. Although it is impossible to understand that these counterfeit products can be sold freely anywhere from one year to three years in prison, which corresponds to large sums of legal money, while the law has determined that they will be given the right to someone else's brand (borrowing) or defection, that they will produce goods or services by raping, that they will be sold for sale, that the seller will be sentenced to three years in prison. According to the Ankara Chamber of Commerce (ATO) report, 58% of consumers have bought counterfeit products in Turkey, which is a paradise of counterfeit products, Turkey's three billion dollar ciros became the world's second largest counterfeit product market after China. While Istanbul is the capital of the counterfeit product market, tourists are also popular with counterfeit goods and are exporting counterfeit products to the domestic market, as well as neighbouring countries, it is said. According to the report, counterfeiting has led to the loss of nearly 12 billion dollars in production in Turkey's economy, the loss of six billion, six hundred million euros in taxes, and the loss of employment for 60,000 people. According to the same report, 31 per cent of consumers are noted for buying counterfeit goods from imports, 22 per cent from neighborhood markets and 16 per cent from society markets, and it is said that the municipalities would be hit with fraud if they were to fight the business and society markets enough. The customs department is also responsible for the fact that most of these counterfeit products have been smuggled from abroad illegally into the dorm. Counterfeit products brought into the dorm with unrealistic product statements are easily entered into our country because customs do not have enough checks and are being used for this fraud. When a foreign magazine claims Turkey is a pirated product paradise, the use of "Turkey has nothing less than China in terms of brand piracy," the expression "Istanbul's stone is not gold or gold, but it is an undisputed fact that our country is a pirate product paradise" has been unfairly criticised. In accordance with the facts described above, we present the amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Marks Act, which has been adopted on January 28, 2009, but has not been prevented from producing and selling counterfeit goods and increasing economic size, and the establishment of the Parliament Research Commission for the purposes of solving them. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Manisa]] [[Tekirdağ]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] 13) Ahmet Duran Bulut [[Balıkesir]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Erzurum]] [[İstanbul]] 17) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The textile sector, which we provide in addition, has strategic importance in terms of its development, its integration, its export and its contribution to employment, and its problems and solution proposals are researched, and will determine measures to be taken, including legal arrangements for this. The 104th edition of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Charter. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit the opening of Parliamentary Research. It's the 7th time in the world. Turkey, the largest cotton producer, is among the top five countries in the production of 1,475,000 tonnes of yarn and the world's silk production. China, India, Pakistan, the United States and Turkey are also the largest five strand manufacturers in the industry. In addition, Turkey's annual cotton weaving production is 580,000 tonnes, and cotton knitting is 780,000 tonnes. Turkey is the ninth largest textile exporter in the world textile trade. Turkey is the fourth largest country in the world's ready-to-wear export. Turkey's most important market is EU countries with a 76.1 per cent share. Textile imports reached $6.3 billion in 2006, with an increase of 6 per cent. Turkey's textile general imports take place on exports from 2002. The import of infection has exceeded $1 billion by the end of 2006. 40,000 companies in Turkey are now known to be operating in the textile and fusion sector. More than 90% of these businesses are produced by SMEs. These companies are produced in fason production. The textile sector is mainly in the hands of large-scale companies, while the SMEs make up all the businesses in the confectionary sector. Of the 40,000 companies operating, 25% are active exporters. The backbone of the Turkish economy is strategically important in terms of the textile sector, its development structure, its residency, exports and employment contribution. However, the sector must be saved from the loss of blood and from the problems and threats it faces in terms of improving, adding value to the category of high products, continuing to create employment. If these problems are not resolved in the short term, there will be problems of social unrest that will continue to bleed out in the coming period. Already, the competitiveness of the industry is rapidly disappearing as the main problems continue. Since the sector is unable to transform technologically, new investments are being postponed and are shifting to foreign countries that provide more advantageous conditions. Polyester threads and fabrics are growing every day for importing and passing through the Far East countries. The fabric production and weaving industry in Turkey is nearing its end. Today in textiles, machines, factories are sold at the expense of nothing. In desperation, companies are handing over production facilities or many of them are in the process of closing down. Therefore, unemployment has begun. Today, an enormous industry with nearly $10 billion in domestic market size is a victim of false policies that employ 2.5 million people, export $20 billion. Turkey has yet to have another sector that will replace the textile sector, which is so large, the leader of exports and employment. The country's total exports increased by 16.4 per cent in 2006, while textiles and ready-made clothing are 23 per cent of our exports. Cari's open, and she's extremely alarming in terms of employment. In particular, the textile sector is crucial to creating an important job opening for the unqualified labor force, which will continue to come from the sector because of the recession in agriculture and the unemployment of millions. The economic and social destruction of the industry, which has created about 40 per cent of the total manufacturing employment in Turkey, is evident in an environment where young unemployment registered in cities exceeds 23 per cent and social boom signals are increasing. For reasons presented above and to be determined during the investigation, the Constitution is 98. and 104 and 105 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Civil Charter. In accordance with the clauses, we respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamental research to investigate the problems and proposals for solutions of the textile sector and to take necessary precautions. [[Mersin]] [[Aydın]] [[Mughle]] [[Elizipt]] [[Kütahya]] [[Mersin]] [[Adana]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Erzurum]] [[Inconceived]] [[Kastamon]] [[İstanbul]] 16) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 19) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. Mr. Ayşe Nurkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın Üdıyaman, who is ranked in the 1st rank of Justice and Development Party Group Chairs İstanbul MP, Mr. Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mr. Kareseri MP, Mr. Karesun MP, Mr. Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mr. Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Mr. Ahmet Aydın, we will continue to talk on the amendments of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution Proposal Proposal Proposal. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with the Law Bill and Foreign Affairs Commission Report, which is ranked in the 2nd place, in accordance with the requirements for ratification of the Organisation for the Islamic Conference. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with 85 rows. On behalf of the groups on the entire bill? No. On behalf of the individuals, Ankara MP Emrullah Business. Here you go, Mr. Business.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0017par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, as I begin my words, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to share my views on the entire Dair Law Bill, where the approval of the 85th Order of the Islamic Conference is appropriate. As a matter of fact, I'm hearing a need to explain the word "efficiency" in this bill. Because in Turkish, when we pronounce the word "efficiency," it means something different when we use it. This term was used earlier by the term "charter" (a word called "college"), which used to refer to the word "contact." Therefore, in this context, I would like to understand the meaning of my speech. Turkey has been a member since its establishment in 1969, the 57th largest international organisation since the United Nations, the 57-member Islamic Conference Organization, which is the second largest international organisation on the global scale, operates to improve solidarity and co-operation among member states in the fields of political, economic, commercial, cultural, social and science, to protect the common interests of member states and legitimate cases, and to strengthen the efforts of member states on the international level. Turkey is the chairman of the four permanent committees of the organisation, the ISEDAK Permanent Committee for Economic and Trade Co-operation in the BC. It is also home to the Islamic Centre for Statistics, Economic and Social Research and Education (SESRIC) and the Centre for Research on Islamic Arts, History and Culture (SESRIC), and to the Islamic Conference for Dialogue and Co-operation Youth Forum, the Federation of Lawmakers of Islamic Lands and the Institute of Metrology. Our country, which has hosted three meetings of the Council of Foreign Affairs of the BC, has already announced its candidacy for hosting the 13th ICO Summit. Prof. Dr. Following the adoption of Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu, important work has been launched towards the organisation's structural and functional reform. The main goal here is for the organization to be restored to a more modern structure that will respond to today's needs. For this purpose, the Ten Year Action Programme was adopted in 2005 as a road map at the 3rd Extraordinary Summit of the 3rd BC in Mecca. One of the most important steps taken under the reform was the preparation of the new condition of the ICO. The new requirement for our country's preparation was adopted at the 11th RD Summit, held on March 13-14, 2008 in Dakar, the capital of Senegal. The new condition, modern and universal principle, is to include norms, in this context human rights and basic freedoms, the rule of law and accountability, the emphasis on the rights of women, children, elderly and disabled, the aid of Muslim communities and minorities, the development of intercultural dialogue, the development of a new body, such as the independent human rights commission. In a nutshell, the principles of good governance, accountability, respect for human rights and basic freedoms, strengthening women's status, transparency and the rule of law stand out. There is no doubt that the new condition of mankind's modern values will increase the organization's ability to deal with the problems of the 21st century. We believe that with the implementation of this reform process, particularly the new condition, the organisation will take on more responsibility in the international arena and make it sound stronger. (x) 85 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. As part of the preparation work, the proposal made by our country shall dictate that the provisions of the second clause of Article 37 shall be carried out in accordance with their constitutional requirements by member states. On June 18, 2008, during a meeting of the 35th Council of Foreign Ministers of the IKÖ in Kampala, Uganda, the country's capital city, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ali Babacan signed the new condition on behalf of our country. It is also noted that Turkey will interpret and apply the condition in accordance with our obligations due to our Constitution, our laws and international agreements. The BC is a multi-sided platform where we have long-standing historical, cultural and social ties with most of them, which are important for our political and economic interests, and we have co-operation and solidarity with countries in the Middle East, Africa, South and Far Asia. In this context, the ICÖ, particularly the issue of Palestine, which is important for regional and global peace and stability, and the status of Jerusalem, and our national case on Cyprus, is a useful international basis for the international acceptance of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the end of incarceration of illegitimate and illegitimate people over the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and support for the protection of legal rights and interests of the Western Thracian minority. The Turkish Cypriot delegation of Turkish Cypriots, who attended the 1981 Saudi Arabia Summit as the Turkish Cypriot Community, was first part of the Turkish Cypriot government's decision to transfer guest status from the Moroccan Summit in 1979, to be granted a status status as a guest at the Moroccan Summit, and was accepted as the Turkish State of Turkey's Plan for the United Nations's Computational Solution of the Republic of Northern Cyprus - Annas -- the Turkish State of Cyprus's Turkish Republic's Plan -- was adopted at the Council of Foreign Affairs in İstanbul on June 14th, 2004. The CDC is also an important platform for the implementation of our policies on the African opening of our country and the establishment of peace and stability in the Middle East and the Balkans and support of our candidacy for international organisations and bodies. In this framework, it is estimated that ratification of Turkey's new RSR requirements, the condition of our country, in accordance with our obligations due to our Constitution, our laws and international agreements, will be in line with our foreign policy objectives to strengthen Turkey's position within the IKÖ, to develop co-operation with political, economic, economic, commercial, cultural, social and scientific communities, and to improve our effectiveness in a broad region, particularly in the Middle East, Balkans, Africa, South and Far Asia. Mr. President, I would like to take this opportunity to bring you up to speed on one matter: The name of the Islamic Conference Organization has been changed to the Islamic Association for Co-operation at the 38th Foreign Minister's Council in 2011. The WMD has been signed by 44 countries and approved by 17 countries so far. In the past year, the draft law has been strict because it did not meet with the General Assembly in the 23rd term. Although this bill is late, I think it's an important development today that the Supreme Assembly will pass its approval. On this occasion, I wish that the bill of law to be passed would be a blessing, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0018par0304	Thank you, Mr. Business. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I'd like it to be passed on to...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0019par0307	Mr. President, if there's no one else to talk to, I'd like to speak for myself.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0018par0308	Sure, go ahead. That's the answer I got from the bands. Mr. Young, I'm sorry. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0020par0311	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today we approve an important international agreement, but the Foreign Minister is not here. Where is the Secretary of State? Tunisia has a meeting with Syrian friends. Who's he having this meeting for? A number of imperialist forces have collaborated with a number of treacherous plots, which are thought to be aimed at attacking Syria, the state of the Republic of Turkey. Now, first of all, we're implementing a very important deal. Look, it's completely against the Turkish legal system. Now, at the beginning of the agreement, he says: "In the name of God, who gives and forgives." Of course, there is such a thing in these international, Islamic countries, but we are a secular country as a state of the Republic of Turkey. So, of course, it's a start that doesn't first fit into our legal system, but I'm going to come to the Secretary of State again -- among the general principles of this agreement -- to create conditions for the well-growing of Muslim children and youth, and to teach them Islamic values through means of training to strengthen their cultural, social, moral, moral, moral ideals. Now, again, to promote, encourage, promote, protect, promote Islamic culture, and preserve Islam's heritage, preserve the true appearance of Islam, defend, combat Islam's corruption, encourage the interfaith and interfaith dialogue based on the principles of Islam and tolerance. Of course, lawmakers, of course religion is a very important element for people, religion education should be done according to healthy principles in society, but we are a state that accepts the principle of secularism. In a state that accepts the principle of secularism... of course, first of all, our Constitution, our laws are based on the uncomplicated conduct of religion and state, the 24th article of our Constitution, which no one can direct the state's economic, social, political structure according to the rules that are sacred to religion and religion. So, however, Minister Ali Babacan has made a record of a conflict, but I think that the introduction of this agreement is completely incompatible with the principles of our legal system. You know, if an internal law conflictes with international agreements, international agreements are higher than the 90th article of our Constitution. Therefore, it is also known that there is no way to go to the Constitutional Court for these cancellations. Of course, the recent talks of Recep Tayyip Erdogan's growing youth, a youth that is based on religion and religion, have caused us a little bit of hesitation that this agreement should be brought up and approved immediately, and what did Mr. Recep Tayyip say in Egypt, the secular state of Turkey, which AKP had been putting on his head for so long? I am not secular, I am Muslim. So -- not a secular human being -- you will be Prime Minister and under the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey -- you will swear on loyalty to the Constitution, on honor and honor, and then how can you say that I am not secular? These are, of course, things that our minds, our ovulations, will not take, but I think, when these agreements are being negotiated here, how the State of Turkey will come out and apply them, so in the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey, it's a modern, secular, science, science-based, educational system that prior to developing young people in the field of science, in the field of knowledge, but it's trying to completely destroy the previous eight years of uninterrupted education with a law that now brought to the AKP. The goal in AKP is this: You put a black veil on the heads of six-seven-year-old girls, you put it in your seat, a Qur'an, go, that's your education. So I think the Secretary of State needs to come in here and explain how this deal is going to fit in with our laws, how it's going to work. Otherwise, in my opinion, it's against our legal system, our constitutional order. Dear MPs, of course, it bothers us very much that Ahmet Davutoglu interferes in Syria in particular. Now, the Muslim Brothers in Syria, that's where Hamas is taken away... and we don't know the level of advice from Turkey to get Hamas out of Syria and the level of economic aid there, our questions remain unanswered. Moreover, the Muslim brothers took power in Egypt. Of course, they try to buy it in Syria, and they support it. Some people from Syria are said to have been given weapons assistance at work in Turkey. Syria is our friend and brother. Therefore, we have no problem with Syria. Of course, if Syria has human rights violations in it, we need to deal with them on the same level as we need to deal with human rights in another state. Otherwise, some imperial forces will give us tactics, order us, you will go, you will take care of this. You're already watching it on TV. Many television channels say: "America, you will go to Turkey, you will intervene in Syria, you will create a security zone there." Well, members of lawmakers -- look, we're MPs here, we have to protect the rights of the nation -- come on, the opposition party doesn't say that, why don't you intervene? Does this mean that we now have to intervene in Syria? Is there a situation in Syria that requires us to work so hard against it? And if Syria is here tomorrow with its own security department network of people who have been involved in armed actions among us, if they're organized, if there's a number of murders here, who's to blame? Today Ahmet Davutoglu and Recep Erdogan will be at work. Who else could it be? So this is not the case in this state until now, in an 85-year-old state. The state of the Republic of Turkey has never gone and interfered with the internal affairs of another state, provided weapons to opposition groups in their internal affairs, gave no money. Therefore, it is a trap against the Republic of Turkey, a plot against the state of the Republic of Turkey, a gang of traitors. These acts of treason need to be stopped. So, for no reason, friends, why attack Syria? Why should we get upset with Syria? At first with Syria, Ahmet Davutoglu and Recep Erdogan -- in America, go and attack this Iran so that we can attack it, separate Syria from Iran. - They've gone, a brotherhood, I don't know, held a meeting of the Council of Ministers. They found that the rulers in Syria did not come to this game, but now, events have been transmitted into Syria so much that some forces, armed forces are going to Turkey now, interfering with the armed forces within Syria, attacking the police, killing people. Syria has become an uninhabitable state. Thus, Turkey's foreign policy (x) is the biggest criminal here who has terrorized these events within Syria rather than the rulers of Syria. We have to say it here. In whose account does Ahmet Davutoglu act? If he is a minister of the Republic of Turkey, he must come and answer at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. By what right and by what authority does he go and intervene in Syria, where he gives financial aid to those who oppose the Syrian government, and then impresses them against the government? Here, you have members of the Party of Saadet; one day, Ismail -- I couldn't remember the name of the family now -- he said: "One day I went to Hummus. I went to Hama. I came out of the mosque, a girl informs Turkey that guns are going off everywhere, bombs are going off. I said, "My daughter, where are they? He said, "Sir, they're giving us instructions like this: You'll go, you'll make the inside of Syria look complicated... (x) The statement of this statement is on page 40 of the 71st Unification Article of 28/2/2012. Look, a lot of this information is dirty. Therefore, everyone in the state of the Republic of Turkey must seize it. We can't keep this state alive by creating terror, by stirring up the insides of neighboring countries, by killing people there, by creating terror. I believe that's the part of the deal that needs to be studied. My respects, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0021par0326	Thank you, Mr. Young. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONFERENCE OF THE ISLAM CONFERENCE IS FOUND TO BE CONTINUED MADDE 1- (1) was approved on behalf of the Republic of Turkey on June 18, 2008, under the terms of the Organization for the Islamic Conference. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you five minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency in five minutes scheduled for the vote. Also, if there are those who will vote, I request that they vote to which minister, in the five-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the Persuasion of the Islamic Conference Organization's Circumstantial Approvement: [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin the talks of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Co-operation and Mutual Aid Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Korea and the Government of the Republic of Turkey. The commission is here. The government is here. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with 76 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. THE PROGRESS OF THE REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF REPUBLICATION IS CONDITION OF THE PRODUCTION OF THE CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION AND AGREATION OF AGREATION OF HELP. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on 15 June 2010 in Seoul, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Co-operation and Agreement for Mutual Aid between the Government of the Republic of Korea. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Under open vote of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Korea to ratify the Co-operation and Mutual Aid Agreement between Customs and the Government of the Republic of Korea: ▪ Number of votes used: 190 [[xx]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. (x) 76 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. (xx) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. We will begin negotiations with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report of the Dair Law, which is in the 4th place, and with the Court of Turkish Government, the Court of Health and Medical Industries, that it is proper to ratify the Agreement. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 161 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Idris Baluken, who has asked on behalf of the entire bill. Here you go, Mr. Baluken.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0022par0401	No.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0021par0402	Okay. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Aytuğ Atı. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0023par0406	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Court of the Republic of Turkey's Government and its Republican People's Party on the grounds that it is proper to ratify the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Health and Medical Industries. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, we are truly pleased to have cooperation with Turkmenistan in all areas, especially in the field of health. We have a lot in common, a lot in common, a deal like that makes us happy. When you examine the agreement in detail, you'll see that it's a total of six articles. The main goal of this agreement is to exchange information and co-operation between the two countries in health care. Now, dear lawmakers, I'm going to gather my speech from here in three main topics: Number one: this is the problems I can see about the preparation technique of the deal. Secondly, the reason sent by the Prime Minister's signature is what he told us, of course, to anyone who understands. Look what comes out of the motive sent by the Prime Minister's signature. Third: I humbly offer some suggestions to the Minister of Health and Medicine Industries of Brother Turkmenistan. Because the Minister of Health and Medicine of Turkmenistan, our Minister of Health and Medicine, will run this agreement together. And I'm going to try to tell him what's been going on in this country for years about health. Now, I'm starting chapter one. In chapter one, I'm going to talk about problems with the arrangement's preparation technique. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, this problem isn't really unique to this agreement. Our State Department, unfortunately, has humiliated us by making similar mistakes in the vast majority of agreements between the two countries. See what Article 2 of this agreement says: the parties will co-operate with the following methods by mutual agreement in the field of health and medicine. What are these methods: Turkey and Turkmenistan will exchange information; well, let them do it. It's going to be a change of boards and health professionals, which is good. By one of the sides. (x) 161 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. There will also be participation in scientific conferences and fairs; well, that's good, too. I point out, my friends, that in other ways in the field of health and medicine industry, co-operation will be determined by mutual agreements. (a) (b), (d) is very clear about what to agree on, while (d) rules on co-operation in other ways, so at some point it makes no sense. So the husband and wife committees will come together, they will sit down, they will agree, and then they will say, "What if we cooperate in other areas that the two delegations see fit? Let's not make any deal, let's not bother, let's put up a clause, let's make a deal in all the areas that the two delegations see fit. Let's say, let's call it a deal. Let's say, let's call it a deal. The article seems meaningless, but if you've read the AKP mentality well, I'm speaking to those who have been watching us so far, you can also understand that it's actually meaningful. I'm asking you: What do you understand about cooperation in other ways mentioned here? There's a lot of deputies in there, and I'm sure each one of them will understand something different. In other ways, cooperation is a clear concept, but let me make a little comment for you and see what I mean. This concept is clear, but if you combine it with other laws and laws, the end will be closed. Let me give you an example: For example, when you combine this matter, which is interpreted as a simple business, sir, with the Constitution of 663, and it seems to be a simple business, it will be a major problem. What was an important ingredient in 663? Importing an imported physician was an import nurse. Now, if you add a clause called "co-operation with Turkmenistan" or many other countries in other matters, you will understand very, very well what AKP is saying if you combine it in Article 663 of the Law you issued. Now, dear friends, this is an extremely dangerous situation. If you give the AKP government unlimited authority through agreements, we'll be in real trouble. We, in fact, know that the AKP government likes to use unlimited authority, and everyone knows that. What does the AKP say when it gets stuck? My brother, the people have given me authority, and we use it. Public authority cannot be interpreted in this way, its authority is used within democratic conditions. Hence, we often have to remind them that more than half of the people do not trust themselves and that they do not have that authority. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to move to the second part of my speech, so I'm going to reveal some hidden points in the grounds sent with the Prime Minister's signature. I'm reading the first sentence of reason, and see what the Prime Minister says: "The global, political and technological development that we're experiencing and the trend for globalisation in every area has placed health in the first order of the world's agenda as a subject without borders. " He knows, but does he realize that this is a very dangerous situation? If he doesn't realize it, if he doesn't know the burden of globalization, then how does the Prime Minister sit in his seat? Is the Minister of Health not warning him? If the Minister of Health isn't aware of the danger, then woe be upon us. If the Prime Minister is aware of the dangers of globalization in health, we are in a much more dire situation. In this case, the question arises why it has not protected our country from this globalization plague, especially from its health. Look, he'll be surprised for five years, and the Minister of Health hasn't noticed, and let's think with good intentions that the PM hasn't noticed, and let's look at how globalization affects health together. This is a presentation I've prepared, folks, based on a statement I've taken out of context. Look, the countries that keep globalization going have one goal -- you all know -- is to make a profit, more fill their pockets, more fill their pockets. They sell everything without a thought, and they sell health, everything. What do they do? For example, they produce swine flu, bird flu, and then they make vaccines for them, and then they sell them to us for millions of dollars in quotes. This is an example of globalization. Even more dangerous countries like us, sleeping, collaborating with global capital, take these products, and use them as quotes for good for us citizens. Now, that's disgusting globalization, precious MPs. This is really unacceptable, especially in the field of health, because it seriously endangers human health. But do countries that allow globalization to be limited to this? No. What do they do? They produce technology; they produce CT, they produce MRIs. And we think that we're -- we're a really optimistic nation, we're optimistic, we're naive -- they do it in the name of humanity. Then, they sell us this technology in the name of humanity at an excessive price, and I quote, "In addition to unnecessary use, use a lot of scientific data in front of us. Here, use it like this. Here, spend it like this. They encourage us to spend it like this. And they take our money for a long time. Now, that's what a raging globalization looks like. They go further and further into this globalization where countries, the World Bank and the IMF, send over some loans. Health-based lawmakers know exactly what I mean. We know very well how family medicine comes to this country, and that is how the IMF and the World Bank determine our health policies. Then, our Minister of Health gets up, sir, family medicine, Public Hospital Associations, these are our original projects. He says, "We believe it, we applaud it." The public may believe it, but the precious MPs, you have no chance of believing it. Even if your Minister told you that, you'd have to investigate and find the truth and keep your promises to your nation, to the people who voted for you. So I can't explain to myself in any way the MPs and the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, and I can't tell the public, and they're surprised, too, how do they believe it? Mr. Prime Minister, I'd like to address you from here: since your health minister is not a traitor, he doesn't really know this job, he really doesn't know it; he's misleading you, and he's putting the government in a difficult position. Now you're going to say, "Sir, the people are pleased, they're voting for us, sir, here we have 50 percent of the vote." Dear friends, our people are easily pleased, indeed, and they were pleased with ANAP. What happened? Our people were also pleased with the fascist coupgers of September 12th, who approved their constitution with 90-some percent of the vote. What happened then? When our people saw the facts, they destroyed them one by one. Again, our people destroyed them, buried them in the chest, judged them, destroyed them. Now, I'm afraid you'll end up just like them. You know what's weird? You've come with health in the second semester, you've put health on the line, but it's all over your feet. And for that, we have produced a slogan: you have come in good health, and you will go in good health. Now, I'm going to move on to the third part of my speech, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0024par0432	It's all right.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0023par0433	Good health to all of us. Now, Turkmenistan is our sister country. I'd like to make some suggestions to the Minister of Health and Medicine Industries of Turkmenistan. It's not my place, but since it's a sister country, I'd like to share some things with you. As part of this agreement, I fear that they will envy us -- God forbid -- in things that sound good and empty -- and bring a health care system similar to Turkmenistan. I mean, we've been burned for ten years, so at least our brothers in Turkmenistan won't burn. It's my duty as a brother to tell them so they can see our suffering and take precautions. Then, I know very well that the Minister of Health of Turkmenistan, a brave man, would not lie to the Turkmen people, until now. Again, this Minister can't answer here after the debates in the House, not be able to travel television, go to the newspaper, and interview in unthorned rose gardens. And I say, "Aman, be careful with these. Then you'll get out and someone will criticize you, God willing, and you'll be out of your seat. So I imagine you'll listen carefully to my suggestions and evaluate them, and use them to the benefit of the Turkmen people. Dear Turkish Minister of Health, my most important suggestion: Whatever you do, do not privatize health care. Look, we've privatized what's happened to us. Now, our Minister of Health often goes out and says: "We didn't privatize, not under the privatisation law. " Dear friends, health care has been privatized in Turkey. Those who say it's not customized, come out, say it here, and talk to each other. Look, how it's specialized: of course, we've privatized it. But I'll tell you something, whether health is privatized or not, you decide whether or not it's private, and let our fellow citizens who listen to us decide. Now, what we call the first step, is the heavily considered part of protective health care. I'm also a physician, and I'm very interested in protective health care. When I was raising my students, I always told them: "Dear students, your primary duty is to prevent people from getting sick. It's hard to treat when you're sick. So give all your strength to protective health care. They sold our first digits here in Turkey. Who did they sell it to? It's not like he's a stranger or anything, he's never been to a stranger. They sold it to the doctors who lived there, who worked at the clinic. Who sold it? The AKP sold the government. Oh, how'd he sell it? So he didn't sell the deed. They sold the basic health care presentation here, which is the constitutional duty of the state, in the first place. They bought it, they hooked up 3,000 citizens to a doctor, and they paid 56,000 to pay for it. And this time they sold the people to the cabal. A doctor has three or four thousand patients. Then we don't get involved by giving these five or six thousand liras; the flesh is yours and the bone is yours. The Ministry of Health has withdrawn. In what sense? Of course it means payments. So I'm not going to get involved in anything. Then he said: "Yahu, you will use this place, give me the rent price, brother." There's a table, there's a chair. Give them their rent. He began to take back some of his money every month, and he acted cunningly. He used to work here as a midwife, a nurse, a paramedic, a cleaning crew. He took it all from the doctor, left one nurse. If you want to run the rest, you run it. Is this a business? Okay, doctor, employer, employee? So, what happened to the patient? He got sick, too, customer. Now, dear friends, if this isn't a privatisation, what is it? Put a name to that. Don't call me family medicine. The doctor no longer has protective health care in his head that I have taught him, that I have taught them, and how do I prevent illness, and how do I treat the sick? You know what's in their mind? How do I bring the end of the month, how do I turn this store, how do I save it? Look, it's dangerous, how do I save health? How do I increase my income? Unfortunately, the health staff and doctors now have harmful thoughts in their heads. The Minister of Health returned, which was not enough, and he thought, "How do I make money on the first step?" And he put a safe in the health clinics, which you will remember very well. We, the Republican People's Party, cancelled this cash register transaction. Mr. Secretary of Health of Turkmenistan, please, don't market the first step like this. Because it will come back to your beautiful people. And then when we cancel it, the Minister of Health -- of course, he does it so much as a matter of pride, everything -- made it a matter of pride, and this time, the Constitutional Court removed it, and I'll get $3 for every prescription the doctor prescribed. If the doctor prescribed four prescriptions, I'll get four liras at the health clinic, five prescriptions at the family health centre, and I'll get five lira. Look, in this case, our health is really, really bad. This is step one. Go to the health centers, the public hospitals and universities, where you'll see that health is commercialised again. Do not apply this system to Turkmenistan because if you apply it, the doctors will now pursue performance, just as they do here. So they're going to have to do a lot of surgery to bring home the bread. Patients will also think: " What if this doctor operated on me, but did he do it to bring bread home? Am I really sick? " I'm a person of interest, and I'm going through all this with my friends. I've been the head of the two-term medical examiner's office, and I've traveled with all the medical examiners, doctors, nurses, they're really troubled by this distrust of themselves. Dear Turkish Minister of Health, the more a potato sells onions, the more successful the performance is, but it's not the same for doctors. Our Minister couldn't see it, I hope you would. And when you make the law, Mr. Secretary, please discuss it with all the partners. We don't have that culture. I mean, when we have the law, we don't discuss it with any of the commoners. We can't do that here. Whatever our minister commands -- whoever he orders -- there are some unions who applaud him -- there used to be yellow unions -- now that he's back at the unions -- he cooperates with the unions who applauds, and then he arrests those who defy him. If the unions act, they'll end up in the right place. Look, just five days ago, the unionists, including the Health and Social Services Unions, and the Unions of KESK, who were also part of the SESK, took action in Mersin, and as a result of this action -- I will explain these actions to you -- immediately took 36 people into custody. So I was wondering, what's going on here? What's going on here? 36 people have been arrested, three branch heads arrested, taken into custody, taken into custody by the mayor of a political party. I said, "What's going on?" And I went and talked to them, and I talked to the manager. I said to them: "Did these people have weapons?" I asked them, "Well, did these demonstrators have a Molotov?" Sir, they said it was an advanced democracy. Mr. Secretary, please don't follow our example. And don't follow the example of injustices done to us, Mr. Turkmen Minister of Health. Look, I'm reading one example, and I'm naming it because it's now on the record that a doctor named Mustafa Flyer at the Department of Health is applying to the family practice, and two years ago, 20,573 points. Two years later, his score was 17.311, so he dropped three points in a year and a half. There are thousands, hundreds of family physicians like this. I don't have time to talk about violence, sir, the GSS, the closing of the hospital of Bingol, which is blocked, but I will write to you, Mr. Turkmen Health Minister, and I will express my feelings to you again. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0025par0451	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0026par0453	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0025par0454	Sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0026par0455	Mr. President, while the speaker was continuing his speech, he made an inappropriate statement to our group president.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0025par0456	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0026par0460	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, when the Minister continued his speech, he used inappropriate expressions, particularly here, referring to the motive of an international contract, referring to our Group Guşkan. Dear friends, this is a bilateral contract, an international contract. In this contract, you're already collaborating when you're contracting with one side. It's pointless to take a collaboration here and load it with other meanings. I don't know how you managed to do that. All international agreements co-operate with the two countries. In what areas, it is clear that we are cooperating in the field of health and medicine. I just want to say that it's pointless to put other meanings into this. Likewise, dear friends, our citizen is well aware of the reforms in health care in Turkey and lives. Look, it's specialized. In total health expenditures, the monetary rate for public health expenditure has dropped from 32 per cent to 11 per cent. Do they fall back like this in a privatized sector? He can't be nervous.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0027par0464	You don't say off-the-book numbers.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0026par0465	You're looking at the satisfaction of health. The level of satisfaction has risen from 39 per cent to 73 per cent, so the money spent by the citizen has dropped to one third, and the satisfaction has increased by three times. The citizen is already going through this, he sees it. You're looking at OECD countries, the country with the least investment in health in household spending, the country with the least investment by citizens, the country with the least money spent on citizens is Turkey. These are very important numbers. Hospitals, technical equipment, all the way to aircraft ambulances, these people get this service. So at least don't put what you see in the wrong way. Likewise, dear friends, a friend of ours used very inappropriate statements about the Foreign Minister. Look, the Foreign Minister isn't here right now, but in any country, he's in a position to defend Turkey's rights in any way. He became a member of the Islamic Conference Organization in 1969, a new member of Turkey, but for the first time during the EC PARTY, the secretary general became a Turk, and I think it should be applauded. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0469	Mr. President, the Minister has stated that I use inappropriate words. I didn't use that word.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0026par0470	About our Prime Minister...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0471	If you'll excuse me, it's too short, no teasing...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0029par0472	Would you then say that you did not utter an indecent thing?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0473	Sir, I don't use inappropriate words.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0029par0474	No, wait... so you're gonna take it back?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0475	I won't take it back. I'll make it right, sir. I was accused of something I didn't do, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0029par0476	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0478	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't say anything out of line here, just the truth. And if I have said an indecency, then take off the evidence.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0030par0480	You're telling the truth of yourself, the truth of what you see. They're the facts you tell from where you see them.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0481	I speak my own thoughts, I speak my truth...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0030par0482	They're separate from the reality of the country.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0483	But when you see that these facts are the truth of the people, you'll never get out of the chest. Now, the expenses have been reduced from the pocket. You said. There's been an increase in pocket expenses. Look, there used to be no money taken from the clinics, Mr. Ahmet, no money taken, now you're taking it. How did pocket expenses go down?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0031par0485	The citizen couldn't get his funeral from the morgue.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0486	I'll tell you: hospitals didn't used to charge you $5; you take it, you write it down, you get another $3.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0032par0487	Why are you looking at $2, $3 instead of looking at total rates? Look at the total proportions.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0488	If you write four pens, you get $1 a box. After that, if I don't get better in ten days, if I go to the doctor again, plus you put another $5 in all of this. We've done the math, and I told him you charge $25 per person. Get out of here. We're not taking it. Say it. That's the money you get for the knife. You take knife money from all the people, you make money from my pack.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0032par0489	Two liras, huh?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0033par0490	It's illegal to take knife money, it's a crime.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0491	Look, we've moved on. You're saying, look, there's more health. Yes, it's true, it's increased, and I can't deny it to God, it's tripled. But the growing portion of your share of health has gone completely to medicine, so it's gone to transnational forces. Mr. Ahmet, you said: "We have ambulances, plane... I'm telling you a meeting I'm having today -- Mr. Minister is also a Bingol MP -- it's in the 112's records, I'm telling you: the patient's name is Jahan Uz. Twenty-year-old patient. He is sick in the old camp of Arek; he has been out of reach for days. When I called 112, they said to me: "We can't reach many more patients until we get to him. This is where you're coming from, Mr. Ahmet. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0034par0495	Funerals couldn't be taken from the morgue.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0028par0496	The funeral's already dead, there's nothing to do with it. The living are dying, the living!
tbmm-2012-02-23sit02spe0035par0497	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0035par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 70th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We will continue talks on the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report on the ratification of the Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan in Health and Medicine Industries. [[Continue]] Commission? Here. Government? Here. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Idris Baluken.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0036par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Aytug Hodja just drew a picture from the general health window and brought it all the way to Bingol State Hospital, so, of course, we'll take some things from there and share them with you. The proposed bill envisions the ratification of an agreement between Turkey and Turkmenistan on co-operation in the health and medical industry. Of course, we're not going to be able to talk about any problems we've had in the locals when we're usually stuck on the agendas of Congress. Thus, when such substances are discussed, at least we have the opportunity to share and somehow present the problems that we have experienced here in the local area in relation to the issue. First of all, speaking of health, I would like to ask you to reconsider your conscience over the hunger strike of over 400 prisoners, including our Şırnak MPs Mr. Faysal Sarıyıldız and Mr. Selma Irmak. Indeed, there is a process that is moving toward a growing oasis every day. I'm sure none of you have bothered to look at the demands that our fellow inmates in particular have expressed, but I'm sure that I've started again over 400 people from here, why they've been on a continuous, unchanging hunger strike, why they've been in a decision on their own health, on their own bodies, on their death, and I wish you to at least review these demands, because if these demands are reviewed, there are some suggestions about Turkey's problems of democratisation, which have been opening up very much freedom and relaxing both the society and the country for years. A blind, deaf, mute approach and attitude toward these suggestions have unfortunately caused more than 400 people to go on an unchanging hunger strike. This number will increase more and more. The more insensitive we are about this, the more we will see thousands of people here, unfortunately, facing the death of thousands of people, including elected deputies, elected mayors. I hope you'll show that sensitivity as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, there is a government statement that makes everything about health look like this. Now, even with our friends here bringing criticism, you're reacting somehow. You want everyone here to think like you do. Even when it comes to health, you want us all to come in here and talk to the Health Minister's mouth, say that the transformation of health care is appreciated among the public, health workers, health workers, and everyone is very happy, but you know very well that this is not the current painting. Go to the emergency room of the Numune Hospital, just a few hundred meters away, to see this painting, and see the health workers and patients there in the evening. If you return from the emergency room at Number One Hospital with an impression that the majority are pleased with the general situation, health policies, then come here and we'll discuss it together. Now, I'm not going to get into any general issues mentioned by Aytug Hajji. But when we made some agreements on health-related international co-operation, of course, we said that by abducting the Parliament and the public, some of the practices that you passed in the form of a decree of the law set the ground for the free health zones. We said that these free health zones were actually the first step to attracting the health sector in Turkey to foreign capital. Again, we said that the arrangements for the imported doctor and the imported nurse were passed by you, hiding from the House. Look, hundreds of thousands of nurses, paramedics are out of work in the country, and we're organizing import nurses, imported doctors. Now, we'll follow them. How many of these imported doctors will serve in the villages of Haqkari, in the villages of Bitlis, in the villages of Bingol? We'll follow this together, and we'll come and share it with you here. We know that you're pulling foreign capital into the free health care area that you're building, opening up ways to somehow create a Rant system on health with your own staff. Now, about the Bingol State Hospital: At the moment -- Aytuk Hajji said only one person's name, but I'll tell you a little bit more -- just before I arrived, they called us from Zaynelli, where a heart patient is now waiting for someone to reach a doctor in the village of Zeynelli, a heart patient, to either carry himself or provide a sleigh prepared by the villagers on their own terms. This photo is not just a photograph of today. There's been a heavy snowfall in the area for a week, you know. The roads of countless villages are closed, including Bingol, Bitlis. The necessary preparations, the necessary technical equipment, equipment, staff preparation were not planned in advance, so people are now in complete despair and are left to their own destinies. Look, three days ago 22 teachers, two miles from the village of Celebrity between Bingol and Sancak, were trapped in their blizzard for nine hours, and nine hours later, the work machines or public service of the 22 teachers did not grow. After nine hours of phone traffic, famous villagers went to the area where it happened -- 10 to 12 famous villagers at the risk of death -- and saved the 22 teachers we mentioned when they were about to freeze to death. The same thing happened on the way to Gökdere in Bingol. For a month now, there have been villages in the district of Karliova in Bingol. The source village has been waiting for a month for the road to clear. They tell us for a second what happened to a kid who had a hot wire transfer in the source village, and they tell us over the phone. It's not just the village of the Source, see -- our Minister can pick up the phone and learn from Karliova -- the village of Karabalcık, Küzlpınar, Sarıkurak, Harmantepe and Mollaşakir has been closed for a month, and these villages are not only closed, so they are snowed for a month, the roads of the village are not opened, the sick are abandoned to their destinies. Meanwhile, hundreds of village roads are now completely closed to transport due to the new snow. Now, when we talk about health, the medical industry, don't be disturbed when we tell you about the photo of the baby facing death in the Weld village. These represent the real picture of our country right now, the real picture of health. Not just the village roads, but hundreds of vehicles were trapped for exactly five hours on the Bingöl-Diyarbakir road. Hundreds of vehicles are rescued every day on the way to Bingöl-Erzurum, when people are almost freezing to death. Now, it's clear that winter will be heavy in this region, and winter conditions will be very difficult. We leave our people to suffer this kind of harm every winter, when there are more suitable cities in the region, where winter is at a milder pace, where climate conditions are more appropriate, and there is an opportunity to move staff, equipment, technical equipment support to these provinces. Look, when you're talking about the villages of Bingol, don't think it's all so bright in Bingol. We're almost out of city halls where you don't operate, you don't order operations. Look, I'd like to invite you all to a phone call to the people of Bingol about the work of the City of Bingol. Call the random Bingöl tradesman, and let him tell you his performance in the fight against snow by the City of Bingol. Because of the snow in the city, patients can't get to the state hospital. We're dealing with a sad picture like this, and they're putting something in front of their unreachable relatives -- somehow -- in the villages that I'm talking about -- on their backs -- like moving the patient into areas where transportation is being provided. The City of Bingol does not just fail in the fight against the snow. Before the election, they hired 800 workers with populist approaches, with only a rush to get votes, and now, in the middle of winter, they've put 200 workers outside the city's door. Almost no one in the city knows about the fact that all 200 of these workers were made by a political choice. All of these people -- most of them live in rent -- have children, all of whom were already having trouble making a living while working -- and now, in these brutal winter conditions, they're somehow facing the pain bill of populist politics. We've got a picture like this in front of us. Of course, speaking of health, we've said it over and over again. There was not a single contribution during your rule to increase bed capacity. As of this moment, patients from Bingol are suffering a great deal in Elazığ, Malatya, Erzurum, Diyarbakır with their own relatives. Look, Bingöl is in the area at the moment in an effort to bring regional hospital projects into action. While planning these regional hospitals, they're taking the regional hospital to Elazığ, which is relatively good for health in some way. So, now, when we're planning here, we're going to come out here and tell the sad paintings that are going to come out if some study doesn't somehow put itself in front of them. At this time, we are faced with a situation like this that should not be raining snow in order for people to deliver their patients to the maternity hospital and children's hospital. In the districts of Bingley, look, the Youth State Hospital has not been completed in four years. A population of 35 grand, a hospital with 50 beds, hasn't been finished in five years. They shut him down, turned him into a community health centre. A patient in need of bed now has no choice but to pray for the roads to be open; neither has Yayladere, nor Adaklı. Now, we're not here to bring these health-related applications in here just to come in here and criticize you in a way that makes you uncomfortable. We're bringing them here so that we can all look for a solution, all of us together, for the Bingol people, the region people -- I'm speaking in private, but there are these paintings all over the region -- let's sort it out somehow. Look, while our Minister is here, we'd like to be more specific about our problems with Bingöl. Perhaps you've followed the election process, Mr. Prime Minister Bingöl knows that there's natural gas coming in. For exactly five minutes at the Bingol polling site, he explained how much comfort natural gas is, how happy it is to bring natural gas to the Bingol mothers, and how it is to be served in history. But on the plane, someone probably didn't whisper in his ear, so all the cities around him had natural gas, but somehow Bingol was exempted from the service we were talking about. Now, especially this year, there's been frequent power outages in Bingley, and there are three days of power outages. Likewise, there's a serious shortage of coal this year. We say it here, but we say it because there are problems that come to us all the time that our people want to be told here when we go to Bingol. The shortage of coal, power shortages, in such intense, heavy winter conditions, puts people on the verge of almost freezing to death. Dear lawmakers, we've talked about some problems here in general. There are some disturbances related to Bingol, especially to the public in Bingol, which we will share with you next week or next week in the form of research proposals. However, we have a responsibility to share with you some things about the situation of a city that is also his minister. Although our Minister of Development is Bingöllu here, there is a situation in which, in all respects, the city is going backwards in terms of socioeconomic, general social disturbances that have occurred. Now, naturally, when we, the people of Bingol, were given to the Ministry of Development Bingley, we expected it to be reflected in the form of service. See, as nothing has been done about the service, the district managers of public institutions are being moved from Bingol to the surrounding provinces in some way. Bingol is one of the most dense cities in Turkey, where the forest area, the green area, is located. The Forest Directorate in Bingol is transformed into a branch, and the region is being moved to Elazıg. In the same way, the meteorological Directorate of Bingol is connected to Elazığ, which is the area of the meteorology. Despite being a minister of Bingöl, all regional diplomatic missions related to the Fırat Development Agency are somehow positioned in the surrounding provinces concerning agriculture and rural development. Now, if you're doing something like this, say that, and we'll share it with the people of Bingol, and we'll all keep our expectations, at least keep our bar a little lower: we want to make Bingöl to be a borough; we want to put Bingöl into an actual district position, a county role in other cities. Say, "Let's go share it with our people, and our people will focus on something a little bit more realistic when they're expressing their expectations. Here, we have submitted numerous questions about Bingol. None of the answers to these questions are satisfactory, satisfying to the public, far from fulfilling the public's expectations. Right now, half of a city has a deed problem, half of a city looks like it's not registered, and because people don't have the deed, they can't get earthquake insurance in a first-degree earthquake zone, or they're going to get a loan from the bank for commercial activities, but they can't go and mortgage something that doesn't have a deed in the bank. We're dealing with a series of such terrible paintings. Again, a number of temporary dwellings were made in Bingol, especially after the earthquake in 71. The answer to our proposal regarding the transformation of these dwellings into permanent dwellings for 40 years -- over 9,000 households have this kind of expectation -- is that they were helped by brick to strengthen these temporary dwellings, thus being built into permanent dwellings. Look, lawmakers, temporary housing is planned in what we call a 50-metre-square-square-square-square-square-square-foot housing style. Since the winter conditions were heavy in Bingol, there was also no brick help to provide heat insulation, and no amount of cash to cover brick help. Now, we're sending a letter to the Ministry, we're making a question proposal, and we're still calling it the victimization of these dwellings. They've even built a permanent dwelling, a permanent dwelling, which can't afford the isolation. They're bringing it to us as an answer. Of course, I would like to point out that all the problems in both the region and the region are being followed by our people. We bring in research proposals, we bring in questions. Don't think that people don't follow when you're here in a numerical way most of the time when you're insensitive to them. We go and share all this with our people. However, our wish is that you show sensitivity to the problems we've been talking about, that we've proposed these questions and our research proposals... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... that all the thoughts the opposition has said are valuable and reflect the problems of our people, and that's how you answer them. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0037par0045	Thank you, Mr. Bauken. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Reşat MP, Mr. Reşat is correct. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0038par0048	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on Bill 161. I salute the High Council. We're meeting with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Co-operation between the Government of Turkey and the Government of Health and Medicine Industries. And I would like to say that we, the National Movement Party, are going to vote positively for this bill. Of course, when it comes to the Turkish world, the 1990s came to our mind as of now. In the 1990s, as a beautiful twist of history, the dissolution of the Soviet Union, and the independent Turkish states we call the Turkish world, were suddenly publicly exposed to the world. From Turkmenistan to Azerbaijan, from Kyrgyztan to Kazakhstan, various Turkish states suddenly gained independence, and in the Turkish world of 300 million people, especially our country, there was also a great deal of excitement. The Turkish world cared about what they called the Great Wall of China from the Adriatic to the Adriatic Wall, and it was also seen that all the people living on a vast geography from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China had new hopes. Of course, the 1990s, the 2012s... it's not much of a process. So this process of time is not a process of being judged as such a very long process and making very big decisions on states or on independence. Twenty years is a very short period of time in the lives of governments. So I'd also like to say that it's not right to expect too much from these states, which have a 20-to-five-year process of independence. So even in our country, where some of the rules for democracy do not apply, it should also be acknowledged that it is not right to expect a very different democracy from these countries, to expect the duties of various institutions and organisations. Of course, we may encounter many different paintings in the future, so there are different, beautiful environments, the best use of independence, but the most important thing for us is the continued independence of all the Turkish states in the 1990s that won their independence. So independence must be maintained, and when you lose your independence, you lose a lot with it. Members of parliament, Turkish world, Turkish people outside Turkey, and family, history, cultural unity. Even if there are differences in dialects, the collective language, history, culture, common belief, the human community is the Turkish world. Therefore, the Turkish world must create a very special and privileged interest in Turkey's foreign policy. Turkey's republics' independence over the world has also led to a new power for the Turkish unity of the world. It has disturbed other forces around the world, and they're almost mobilising to prevent such a force from forming. The Turkish world has maximum population density in the northern hemisphere. The most colonisation and assimilation by external forces is in this region. By the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Turkish republics, who sought to dominate the Eurasia region, were primarily corrupted by the forces, trying to sever any physical and spiritual ties between them. In addition, the vast wealth of subterranean and subterranean wealth found in these areas has increased the interest of the world around here. In Turkish-world communities, ethnic identity, Turkish identity, is listed as a priority, and in total, Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish Turkish understanding ratio is only 50 per cent. The Turkish world is under intense pressure in Western Thrace and the Balkans. In particular, Kosovo has a strategically important position in Europe; it has Turkish ministers and MPs in its parliament. Some administrative units of the country, which have been adopted as the Turkish language of writing, are used as a Turkish official writing language. This is very, very important for Turkey's political and cultural union. Western Thracian Turks are still in Muslim minority status. Turkey's right to representation must be maintained within the framework of international law and EU criteria. Likewise, in Bulgaria, Turkish language has become a banned language, Turkish schools have been closed, all cultural studies have been blocked. Therefore, the young population has reached the point of forgetting Turkish. Turkmen, who form the educated and enlightened part of the Iraqi people, have recently been assimilated, with the invasion of Iraq, and have recently come to the extent of ethnic cleansing. The new government has left the Iraqi Turks unclaimed and superior to the forces. I'd especially like to talk about Iraqi Turkmen who are in Iraq right now in a great deal of torment and persecution by the Turkmen. Especially the Kerkuk, Musul, Tuzhurmatu, the hen region, Telafer, we are obliged to say that there is a great deal of pressure on our Turkmen brothers in these areas. In particular, in these areas, I would like to say that there has been a recent extreme attack on Turkish doctors and there have been many doctors killed, so the State of the Republic of Turkey should be very serious about this issue. One of the most important values of Turkey and Turkish foreign policy is the Cyprus issue. In 1974, the peace movement of Greece, which wanted to destroy the Turks and become the sole ruler of the island, had finally achieved a new status. Following the operation, Turkey followed a consistent and stable policy, following which the Turkish Cypriot federate state was then established and protected by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. The continuation of this status until there is a fair and lasting solution must be adopted as a state policy. Cyprus is vital to our country's security, energy security, and its effectiveness in the Eastern Mediterranean. Therefore, we must ensure that the island is in control of its own status. Despite all that has been done and should be done, today's government has acknowledged that it recognizes the Greek administration by signing the additional customs union protocol, and our foreign policy and Cyprus have been bankrupted. After that, there was nothing left for the Annan Plan and the Turkish Cypriots, none of what was said in the Annan Plan was fulfilled. Since Turkey is in the middle of the Turkish world geopolitics, these opportunities need to be made the best use of them. First of all, we need to reach out to these regions without expecting any response, and the continuation of independence under any circumstances must be absolutely, absolutely -- I want to rephrase it. By channeling all communication tools here, it will contribute to peace and stability in both the region and will carry out any economic, political and cultural cooperation. This will also lead to the formation of a new and powerful Turkish union that will provide Turkey's leading country position. As a result, the world's balance of power will now change. For this reason, Turkey will help relatives and relatives in international law and interstate relations, creating a security environment, providing all kinds of institutional cooperation in economic and cultural areas. Members of parliament, in 1933, the work launched by the government of the Republic of Turkey to assess opportunities, especially after 1991, has been interrupted in the past few years, in line with the goal shown by the Supreme Ataturk. Together with the AKP's power, there has been a significant change in direction in relations with the Turkish world. The Turkish world has not been given the necessary attention, and it remains unresolved. There is no cultural improvement in relations with the Turkish world, and relations are viewed with economic perspective, but this eye should be considered not the eyes of Turkey and the Turkish nation, but the eye of the EU and the United States should be viewed as an eye for their interests. Today, when the global power struggle shifted from the Middle East to Eurasia, all the world's giant states played all kinds of chess games in Central Asia, Turkey went to change direction in foreign policy for the sake of opening to Africa. This situation must be followed very carefully, and I think it must be changed back to the Turkish world with eyes. Co-ordinating offices were opened to Turkish republics, along with the establishment of the Turkish Co-operation Development Administration, where Turkish language was spoken to help and to develop relations with relatives, but interestingly, even the name of the Turkish world's TİKA (TİKA) has been changed by AKP Power. Contrary to the objectives of the organisation's law, TİKA, along with AKP ruling, has taken on a mission in the form of help to all the developing countries and communities. Therefore, the TİKA coordination offices have been opened in various places from Sudan to Senegal, Ethiopia, Afghanistan, but the TİKA must be in Palestine, Iraq, Kerkuk. In Musul, Telafer, in Syria, in Aleppo, in Syria, in Beirut, in Lebanon, in Eastern Turkistan, in the Sincan region, where they should also have an office. When we look at project work conducted by TİKA, you see that the number of projects and amounts of projects in Central Asia have gone down a lot, but in particular, the number of projects in African countries has been increased more. From time to time, the TİKA budget is said to have been significantly increased. That's true, it's increased, but it's a fact that we have to say that increased TİKA budgets are very little used in projects for the Turkish world. In the past period, about 10 billion or 15 billion of budgets in those areas are now divided into those areas, the Turkish republics in Central Asia. I'd like to draw your attention to that, too. In terms of development aid, Turkey has opened Eximbank loans to Turkish republics, which gained independence in the 1990s. Look, in those difficult conditions at the time, especially in those environments, where the need for foreign currency was necessary, he opened Eximbank loans to the Turkish world by forcing the state of the Republic of Turkey to make every possible sacrifice. These Eximbank loans are worth about $1 to 1.5 billion. From this to Tajikistan, Mongolia has used many states, all the way to Kyrgyzistan. But it's interesting that we can see together that the help that was given at the time was still not done to that geography, even now. Congressmans, of course, I would especially like to say that we are facing a variety of problems in the Turkish world. In particular, our relations with Azerbaijan are beginning to deteriorate. Although Armenians have invaded Azerbaijan territory, almost 1/4 of Azerbaijan's territory is now occupied by 25 per cent. The development of relations between Turkey and Ermenistan is never suitable for the Turkish world while the Azerbaijan lands are occupied. The Turkish world in particular follows Azerbaijan-Turkey's relations and follows how the Turkish Cypriot state will live. But it turns out that the massacres, such as the Hodja massacre that we've brought up at work today, have now remained dry. Many states of the world talk about humanity, while various NGOs speak of human values, the massacre of Hodja is forgotten, and the massacre of Hodjas is not questioned. Look, there are various courts in many parts of the world about people who are violating human values, but right now, Armenian President Sarkisyan, former President Kocaryan, has committed crimes against humanity. One of the people who committed those crimes was their national defense minister. So the massacres on the Turks of Azerbaijan there are put aside when it comes to Turks, and therefore all NGOs, all U.N. institutions, all of them, are moving aside. But this one must not be forgotten, the massacre of the Hodja must not be forgotten. The young man and his older man were suddenly slaughtered in Hodja. The teacher's massacre must not be forgotten but not forgotten, and surely, the account must be asked. At this stage, you cannot develop Turkey-Ermenistan relations in an environment where the territory of Azerbaijan is occupied, where all of Armenia's rhetoric, including genocide, has continued. Especially the government's protocols, they're not the right protocols. Those protocols are now, especially between Armenia and Turkey, awaiting approval in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We would like to say that, as we arrived on February 26th, next Tuesday, in an environment where a special agenda will take place in the House of Hodja massacre, all those protocols have been extradited, and that none of these protocols can be brought to light before the invasions of the Republic of Turkey have ended. Again, especially February 26th should now be declared a day of genocide in the Turkish world and with it at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. See, right now, the Hodja massacre has been accepted in approximately 51 countries. Finally, such a massacre was carried out in Mexico, Pakistan, and it was decided in parliament at the point of the discovery of those responsible for the massacre. While decisions are being made there, we expect that a nation of what we call two states, our Azerbaijan brothers' hearts, especially on the day of the massacre, the day of the genocide, will be discussed and enforced in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Of course, in addition to that, I would like to mention something very important, especially in my words, called the Ahjussi Turks. As you know, the Ahiska Turks live in the Ahilkelek region of Georgia. The common Turks are our brothers who were forced to emigrate by Stalin. The humble Turks are people who have been distributed in various parts of Russia, where they have suffered a great deal of suffering. The common Turks want to return to their territory, their home country, through their home community. Well, I'm afraid the AKP Power has failed here, too. Look, Georgia has given permission, and although she has allowed it, there has been no study of regression to this region. The Crimean Turkmen in Crimea, around 4,500 to 5,000 homes and land were bought in the time of the Crimean Tatars and supported at the point of the deployment of the Crimean Turks. The same painting was supposed to be done for the Ahýska Turks. I've put this on the agenda as the National Movement Party Group, and I've also brought it up as a non- agenda, and I'm afraid we've tried to express that the same Crimean Tatars system should be applied to the Ahıska Turks and that they should be supported by the return of these people, but unfortunately we haven't been able to do that either. I mean, they've had a lot of trouble coming back to this area, and we haven't seen anything about any return in the sense that we want. Congressmans, of course. You say it's been reviewed. Look, from here, I'd like to present some suggestions on the Turkish world in front of the Turkish Grand National Assembly: The ministry of the Turkish world, which will organise all relations with the Turkish world, must be established. The Latin-based Turkish alphabet resolution is vital to the future of the Turkish language and the Turkish world, which should be completed and should also be concluded. Common Turkish literature and history should be studied in the educational institutions of the Turkish republics, for which common curriculums must be prepared. Guidebooks showing similarities and differences between dictionaries and grammar rules at all levels must be prepared. Thus, Turkish dialects would be understood not as languages but as dialects and dialects with phonetic differences. Studies should be made to develop a common language that the Turks of the world will understand each other. The works of literature and ideas published in Turkish states and communities must be adapted among all Turkish dialects. By arranging the days of common poetry and art, writers and poets need to know each other, to know each other's works, to know each other's works. Common art and literature magazines must be produced. A magazine published in Istanbul must be sold and read in Baku, Astana, Tashkent. Turkey's library should be established to reflect Turkish culture in its independent Turkish states capitals, and Turkey must be constantly supported with printed literature. In higher education, studies should be made to correct equation problems. To ensure the harmony of Turkish republics and universities in our country, a higher board must be established and the victims of our students must be removed. Guest professor application and student exchange projects in Turkish geography must be accelerated and increased. It would be appropriate for the state universities in our country to build and even invest in health care, especially in the Balkans. Education in the foreign language, one of the most important branches of cultural imperialism, has influenced the entire Turkish world. This problem, one of the most important threats to our Turkish nation, must be eliminated both in our country and in the Turkish world. An effort must be made to establish a common writing language, a "Turkish World Language Association" institution must be formed. The Grand Student Project should also provide support for students leaving our country. The Great Student Project is one of the most important projects in the history. In that direction, I salute the High Council, says support must be provided.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0039par0092	Thank you, Mr. Right. The first word on behalf of the individuals belongs to Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0040par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge to the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of Turkmenistan that it is incumbent upon me to ratify the Agreement for Co-operation in Health and Medicine Industries. In the text of the agreement, in essence, the exchange of information in the health and medicine industry of both countries, the exchange of health experts, and mutual participation in scientific conferences are essential. When it comes to health, I would like to point out that we support such an international agreement with our friend Turkmenistan. However, while I have received the promise of health care, I would like to mention a little bit about the negative effects on public health, especially in our country, the environmental pollution of industrialisation in Turkey. When you say "industrialism," you say "instruction," as you all know, it comes to mind. I'm going to talk a little bit about the negative effects of industrialisation and pollution on the public health of the city I live in. Two days ago, Mr. Health Minister highlighted a fact on this bench, saying: "When industry is concentrated in a region, there really are some factors that threaten public health. In this regard, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health are taking the necessary measures and measures in this regard. He therefore used a sentence as if there had never been any work in the region, especially when he spoke about environmental pollution related to Dilovasi. We have started to work very seriously in this area, especially Dilova, with public health experts. Either the Ministry of Health isn't being briefed on this or the Minister is involved in a mix-up. From 2001 to 2007, there is a study that has been financed by the National Institute of Public Health, Gebze Institute of Technology, and TÜBITAK. The public also knows about the negatives after this study. When the relevant University Department of Public Health shared the issue with the public, the cancer cases in this region were about 2.5-3 times the average for Turkey. The Minister said again from here, from the stand: "The results of this study by some scientists at the University of Yasaki are not true." We didn't see that result in the results we wanted from the University of Alexandre and from the relevant scientist. But again, I want to tell Minister: There is a book published by the Ministry of Health in Turkey called Cancer Control, published by the Ministry of Health in 2007, published by the Ministry of Health, and published by the Ministry, Prof. Dr. Written by Murat Tuncer. Most of Turkey's section on cancer control has been divided into Dilovasi, and in Dilovasi, I'd like to underline... the epidemiological research conducted by the Ministry of Health in the Greater Dilovase shows that cancer prevents deaths from heart and vascular disease. This is a book, in the hands of the Minister. Again, in the same book, the related professor complains that the pollution of the environment so far is due to the negativeities of industrialization, that the industry here is not well controlled, that the control here is underreached, that there is not much of the discharge permits, especially that most places in Dilovase industrial areas produce dangerous chemicals, and that the cancer case is about 33%. Now, I'd like to ask the Minister, and to address your conscience a little bit, I'd like to present to you the location of Dilovasi. I have a map of Dilovasi. In Dilovasi, the places where I showed the yellow dots above this settlement are where, after 2006, you allowed organised industrial territory to take place in this region during your rule. I assume it's not your fault that this region has been deviant in industrialization until 2002, but after 2002, after the death of Parliament in 2006, there are twenty-nine measures in the report that must be taken from the industry as a result of environmental pollution in this region. However, during your rule, you allowed four new organised industrial zones to be established over the Dilovas settlement. One of these is, since there's been a lot of talk lately, I'd like to put it to you that the Coalers are in the Organised Industrial Zone. Charcoalists are just above Dilova in the Organised Industrial District. My deputy from Alexandria is here, you know, his Dilova is like a dish, with no air conditioning, there's a lot of industry here, just wind circulation from the north every once in a while. Anyway, the north of the compound should be closed to industry. In 2006, the ideas and opinions of the Parliament's research are in that direction, but unfortunately you allow the establishment of the Organised Industrial Zone of Coalists in 2003. What do you allow it for? Collecting coal miners found scattered in the Gebze region. It makes sense from the beginning, but I want to put it this way, where coal is stored, eliminated, packaged, and bricked. There's no way the dust won't come out. You all know that the chemical white powder from one of the industrial corporations in this region just a month ago rained down on Hereke, Bunny, and Dilova. Now, on top of that, you're building a coalist site on this settlement, and you want the dust to come with the winds from the north. It's not enough, you've organized a solid waste tank next to it. There's a garbage collection center next to the Bigeli Metropolitan Municipality, next to it is the Chemical Industries Organised Industrial Zone, next to it, just north of it, as I've shown you, IMES and mechanics. Oh, my God! What kind of conscience is it to unleash coal dust, garbage, toxic substances on these people that can cause so much pollution to the north of Dilovasi? If your goal is to move people from Dilova, then destroy them from here and leave this area only to the industry, make it clear. Make it clear, if necessary, we'll come together, and we'll find a logical way to move the area. But there are 50,000 people who live here, where there are 50,000 people, where you have no right to negatively influence such negativity, environmental slaughter, people, people's lives. I'd like to point out that when we say this, don't let our industrialist get the wrong idea, we're not against industry, we're personally saying that as my party, we're not against industry. I know industry is one of the essential elements of development and development, but we call it an industry that doesn't contaminate the environment, doesn't endanger the lives of people, doesn't disrupt the ecosystem. Yes, we do, and we support it. I want you to remember -- I've expressed it before -- yes, development, development and industry are a beautiful thing, but no investment is worth more than human life, than human health. I wish all of you that this negativeness against Dilovasi, against the people of Dilova, should be removed immediately by the government's authorities.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0041par0109	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the government, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0042par0113	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We're having a particularly productive day of work in our Parliament, and at least three international agreements will be accepted on this occasion. From this point on, I would like to thank all members of our House. But there have been some comments that we should have responded to as the government in some of the talks, and I've come to you to answer them. First of all, Mr. Kamer Young had a speech, and in fact, I couldn't believe my ears, so I filed the report, and now I want to read it to you exactly the same way. I mean, there's no way we can accept these statements. He says in one sentence -- I don't need to read the others -- I think this sentence is enough -- Mr. Kamer Young is the biggest criminal here who has terrorized these events in Syria rather than the rulers of Syria, where he has given weapons support and money support. How can a congressman use a statement like that in his own country, in the Grand National Assembly? How can he respond to accusations that will be taken seriously in the international field and directed to Turkey? I'll leave it to all of you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The Republic of Turkey does not interfere in the internal affairs of any country. The Republic of Turkey has always favoured good relations with its neighbours, protects its national interests, but also follows its basic rights and freedoms with absolute precision, and responds to persecutions, tortures, and a clear attitude in this matter wherever they may be about basic rights and freedoms. I myself, as Minister, have been to Syria many times in the past, and have been to Syria many times. During a period when Syria was isolated in the world, Syria was today...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0043par0120	Mr. Secretary, the Suriye is our internal business. The Foreign Minister says.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0044par0121	Mr. Horseman, please...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0045par0122	You're still deflecting.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0123	During a period when many countries tried to isolate Syria, Turkey had the greatest support for Syria.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0047par0124	That's what the Prime Minister says, and the Foreign Minister says...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0048par0125	Mr. Horseman, please...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0126	As Turkey, we have provided the largest support for Syrian reforms as Turkey, but unfortunately the Syrian administration has not taken advantage of this opportunity despite the support we have provided for years, it has failed to transform Syria, it has shown its persecution towards its own people in the sense of continuing with cold war structures.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0049par0127	America...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0048par0128	Mr. Original, I beg you, please...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0129	We also regret this, and our people are also very upset, but of course the state of the Republic of Turkey, in general, in universal law, will continue to approach this event in the responsibilities of its historical, geographical ties in neighbouring law. We cannot accept these accusations against the Republic of Turkey. I'd like to underline that in particular. Mr. Aytug Horseman has made several comments again. For one thing, he had some comments about Bingley. I thank you, so we've taken so much distance from health, that the criticism here shows how high the expectations are. I, to be honest, am very pleased with such high expectations. That means we've gotten too far. From now on, we have nothing left to discuss too many micro issues in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our hospitals are being built all over the place, so we've switched to health care, family medicine. Our friends just told me about the pleasure. Under 40 percent, the satisfaction of our citizens before our government is now over 70 percent. Our citizens are pleased that we have many service citizens from pallet ambulances to air ambulances to family medicine systems, but of course we can never claim to be perfect. Of course, we may have some shortcomings, and I thank them for letting us know. He said that a patient named Jahan Efici cannot be reached from here. So I called our governor right away, and I asked him about the situation, and he's two or two miles away, and he's still working. This patient is a mentally challenged patient, and he's complaining of pain in his legs, so hopefully he'll be brought up without any problems, and this patient will be given the necessary support. You all know the conditions of Bingöl. It's very difficult. I truly thank our workers, workers, workers, and workers, who have made great sacrifices in the past, at the cost of their lives, who have opened those roads. I didn't want a statement from Aytug Bey, but I wrote it down. ▪ Our people were pleased with September 12th, and they used such an expression. So when we were doing some evaluations against our people, the Constitution of September 12th, didn't the people also say, "Yes?" Dear lawmakers, should our people not have said yes to the Constitution of September 12th, should military administration have continued? What were the choices our people faced? It's a sign of a mindset. So you think our people are satisfied with September 12th.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0050par0135	No, no, that wasn't said.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0136	We don't think so. Our people certainly weren't happy about September 12th. The vote he gave to the Constitution of September 12 does not necessarily mean that he approved September 12th. In order to get out of September 12th and only as soon as possible, they showed death and in a sense persuaded our people to go into malaria, which means nothing more than that. Yes. In my hometown of Bingol, it was said, "No." Despite all the pressures, it was said, "No." Some of those who say no have paid a great deal of costs, they have suffered a great deal, and I would like to emphasize that. If that's the way you view our people, then of course you'll never be supported by these people. We believe that our people have a very strong position on these matters, that they're always for democracy, fundamental rights, but if you corner the public, if you don't give the public a choice, why should you blame the public? So I'd like to point out that that is a very undemocratic mentality. Again, our Bingol MP voiced various opinions, criticisms about Bingol, said that no service had been done, that there had been no service done to Bingley during the AK PARTI period. I'll leave it at your mercy. Of course, there's no end to expectations, we're always open to criticism, if there's a breach, let's always be told, but no service has been done. I'll leave the testimony to the appreciation of the Honorable Congressman and you. Was Bingöl a city with a double route or a university before the EC PARTY? You walk past that university, just like we do.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0051par0139	We say that no work has been done in a city that is the minister.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0140	When I ran for office in 2007, I went to that field, there was a half-building in that field in 2007. I don't know if you've ever seen it on that date, if you remember 2007... go see what the college campus has become today. University...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0051par0141	Is there a city that doesn't have a university so it doesn't have to be made in Bingol?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0142	There, that's good! Are we gonna be uncomfortable with this? Isn't that the service of the AK PARTY? Our airport is being auctioned off, built. It's becoming a city with an airport, Bingol. Isn't this a service to you? On the matter of natural gas, Mr. Prime Minister, in his election fatigue, has already corrected himself in his speech, saying he is a sehven. How politically correct is it to bring this up all the time? It's a very human situation, and you can do it, and I can do it, and from time to time, we can use an expression that comes to our exhaustion. How right is it to make something political out of this?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0051par0144	Do you have natural gas or not? You tell me that, we're not after the Prime Minister's statement.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0145	We've finished engineering the natural gas. Bitlis, Mush and Bingol, we're out of engineering in a way that covers all of our provinces, and hopefully we'll have a tender this year. And in a sense, it's a good thing, and I think it's going to help speed things up, hopefully. Our hospitals: A 200-bed state hospital is being auctioned near the Bingol State Hospital, and its construction is under way. Our obstetrician hospital has a new modern building, it's been in drag for years, it's over, we've moved there. We've run out of 50-bed state hospitals in the district of Karliova, 50-bed state hospitals in Solhan district, and our 50-bed state hospitals in Young County are being completed this year. In one of our most remote boroughs in the Adak district, the construction of our 20-bed state hospital continues. All services continue in this sense without any setbacks. Our oral dental center is currently in short supply. If you had criticized him, look, I would have understood, that the place is really inadequate, that we've built a new project for this, and soon, hopefully, I've just received more information from the Ministry of Health -- a very modern dental care center -- will also be tendered. When you look at it again, we provide project support through development agencies, project support through SODES channel, drinking water from CSEADAS to villages, support from roads, rural development funds to businesses, support for animalism under the DAP, investments in our organised industrial region, our development investments in Meat Fish, the call center...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0052par0148	Is Meat Fish on now, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0149	Look, the only example is that we've built a call center, dear friends to Bingley, and I'll tell you this on this occasion, we're about 700 young people, many of them young girls, at these call centers, at all the call centers of the private sector, they've found work and work in Bingley. Bingol has come to these points, and he's going to make better points. The people of Bingol do not give close to 70 per cent to the EC PARTY for nothing. Do seven out of 10 people vote for a party that doesn't serve? It's a mockery of the intelligence of the people of Bingol. The people of Bingol are voting for the service, voting for the government's warm approach. These are services. Other than that, the problems of the Bingöl people during the state of emergency in the 90s came from the period when democratic rights were narrowed, life became unbearable, there were unsolveds, and today, thank God, the people of Bingol came to a time when freedoms expanded, their culture became more comfortable, and the fundamental rights and freedoms that they expressed were growing. The people of Bingol are a very intelligent people, an intelligent people, a people who see very well where their usefulness is, realize it and use their choices very wisely, and they will continue to do so. Since there's no time, I don't want to go into too much detail and take up any more of your time. Another, perhaps not to stay out in the open: Again, both CHP MP and BDP MP have raised a different question to me in the same regard. A thermal source in our region of medicines, why was this sold? They directed a question such as "Why was it sold?" I've just heard that there will be a research proposal. For one thing, I'd like to say to our congressman that, of course, you're entitled to a question motion, you're entitled to a research motion, you can give as much as you want, and it might be nice to have the position of MP who gives you the most questions, and it might be a good thing, but I can't say anything, but many of the questions you're asking -- look, we're coming here as a sentry, come, get some information, it's not too hard. Ask me what it is.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0053par0154	Yeah, you don't answer questions right. Which of the questions did you answer correctly?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0155	Please don't ease the parliamentary motion mechanism, there's a seriousness there, there's a weight there.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0054par0156	And you're going to set the limit on the question motion?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0157	The motion to question everything, the motion to investigate everything, also indicates that the work is not too intimate, that it is underestimated. Maybe, you guys can go on as a populist approach, go on, I can't say anything, but we're always open, no matter what anybody asks, no matter what they ask, let them know. The district managers are gone, such as phrases and so on. None of the district managers went anywhere else, while they were already in different areas. If that's your understanding of development, I mean, if you're looking at development in a frame like it's a province when it's built with just the district manager of a public institution, then I have no comment to make. That's not my idea of progress. I'm in favor of development with entrepreneurs. A country develops with its entrepreneur, a city entrepreneur, it develops with its manufacturer, it develops with its village, it develops with its farmer, it develops with its SME. If you think a province is going to develop because a few public institutions have opened an office in a province, there are provinces with many offices, go see them all; on the contrary. Look, as a sociological observation, I'd like to say that the cities where the public is so heavy don't improve very much in the long run because it kills entrepreneurial culture. In development, it's the culture of entrepreneurial; Gaziantep is the example, the sample of Denizli, the example of Kayseri. What we need is an entrepreneurial culture. The more we develop this, the better our development will be. And let me tell you something about the hot zone: I myself made great efforts to get there and find hot water. Let's just say I motivated the Mining Study and Search Institute to go and drill there myself. So they went away, and there came from it a good water, and it was more than 70 degrees [of water], or [even] more water would come forth from it. This is the registration area of MTA. All of Turkey's MTA did the same thing in Bingol, put it on the tender, put it on hold for 30 or so days, the tender bill, a businessman applied here and bought it. They're sold! It's as if we bought this water from Bingöl, Turkey, and we took it to another province, as if we had sold it, and it was sold, and the water of Bingley has gone away. I don't find a approach like that right. This is a manager in Turkey...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0055par0161	We haven't told you yet, we'll tell you, don't panic.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0162	Say what you want, say what you want. On the other hand, why is this manager buying this place? He bought it. What's he gonna do? He's not investing and he's taking it home and he's going to pickle it? He's gonna invest. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] If he doesn't invest, there are rules here, which are taken from the person who doesn't invest, that the private administration will look at it again, or it'll be given to another investor. Now it's sold, gone... Now, with that understanding, we can't improve.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0056par0166	Are you going to encourage me?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0057par0167	That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0168	For hundreds of years there will be water under it, and you will not say, "Why isn't this water being removed?"; the water coming out will be offered to an investor, and you will cry out, "The water has been sold." With that understanding, you're going to improve this country?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0057par0169	Use it in the service of the people of Bingol. Mr. Ashraf will tell you how to use it.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0046par0170	I'll leave that to your appreciation and the discretion of the people of Bingol. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0058par0173	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0059par0174	Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0058par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Secretary is quite young, of course. Even the Health Minister here can't answer the questions we're asking, so he goes to TV and uses expressions there. So I suggest we don't make too many comments about things that are beyond you here. Because we've gotten so far in health, he's doing microsurgery...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0060par0179	You don't understand? What do you know about answers?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0058par0180	People's lives become micro? People are dying, and you still see it as a micro event. I've got a snow ambulance with flippers. You say. I was there; and you had shut down the hospital, and you remember, the road of Kiğü was closed, and the hospital was closed. We've asked the woman who gave birth to him for an ambulance of snow with palettes, whether she comes or doesn't come in eight hours, she'll be gone four hours. You kept a woman waiting for 12 hours. Is this what you call "micro-incidents"? For God's sake! And you come out here and you say, "Well, you're criticizing us, we're learning, we're doing something, we're improving."
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0061par0181	Let's not thank him.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0058par0182	Let me tell you something. A doctor says to his patient, he says, "Is there a risk of death?" He says, "Is there a risk of death?" He says 1. What happened? Can you think of a doctor who says that to every person? You're doing the same thing. Each time, you say this is part of what we're going to develop. You don't know anything about Syria, Mr. Secretary, please don't talk about Syria. You're the only one who knows! Who says Syria is our internal business? Your Prime Minister. Who feeds the Syrian opposition here? It's your government again. Who has traveled Syria's border camps and Muslim Brotherhood camps there? Look, think about it. As for Syria, yes, there's a massacre going on, there's violence going on, and no one can hold a applause for that.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0062par0186	Then why are you silent?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0058par0187	These things need to be investigated, they need to be done, but not if you stand up and support the opposition. You say September 12th, when we were crushed by the coup of September 12th, you were 13 years old, Mr. Secretary, 13 years old. Watch your language. You'll never understand September 12th, so let me tell you about September 12th.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0063par0191	What do you know?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0064par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0065par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0066par0194	I now promise Mr. Young, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0065par0195	I'm going to have to promise something later.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0066par0196	Okay, I get it. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0067par0200	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I asked: Where is this Ahmet Davutoglu? No. Where is he now? Tunisia has called for a meeting of Syria's friends. He went to the United Nations, and went against China, and against Russia, and came back empty-handed. What did they say to themselves: "Ya, go, gather the friends of Syria in Tunisia." What did I say here? Guys, aren't you listening to the Ponzi scheme? What did Mustafa Kamalak say about you yesterday? What did he say about Syria? Now, there are talks that can bring great trouble to the Republic of Turkey. They say they bring the opposition to Syria, they train them in Turkey, so they go there and they say they're the ones who make things happen. So we say, this is the State Department sitting in the office, where Ahmet Davutoglu is almost here to inform the House. Why does that bother you? We protect the reputation of the Republic of Turkey a thousand times as much as you do because you're trying to end this state, and we're trying to make this state look respectable. Now, Mr. Secretary, look, the roads aren't closed in Bingöl. Look, there's a lot of snow in Tunceli, a lot of snow in Mush, a lot of snow in the east, a lot of snow in the southeast this year. All our village roads are closed, our county roads are closed, give them a decent gas money, help them, send extra machines. They call us every day from the villages: we have patients, we don't have doctors. Of course, since we're running out of time, I can't say anything, but I mean, take care of not only your own province, but some other provinces. What I'm saying is, unfortunately, the AKP is leaving, interfering with Syria's business. It is not your place to interfere in the affairs of Syria. Go do what America wants. You don't live in Turkey, go live in New York, because that's where you get your instructions, Ahmet Davutoglu. So come to this House, if you're not coming, then resign from the Ministry. What kind of a thing is that? How could a government be so damaged? Who told Hamas to get out of Syria? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here, you said, "Get out of Syria."
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0068par0208	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0069par0209	Now, wait a second... I'm taking turns like this, I'm confused, Mr. Baluken. Now, have a seat.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0070par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0069par0212	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0070par0213	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has naturally answered the questions, done his reviews. Generally, the government's ministers for economics, the Finance Minister, the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Development, let's say, is now the Ministry of Development, show themselves in technical aspects, with their politics. From what I've seen, Mr. Secretary, as his experience with the Ministry grows, he puts aside his political or technical side and tries to show himself in polemic form. I don't think that's the way it sounds to Mr. Secretary, but since he prefers it, I'd like to say this is for the best. Now, the reason I stand up and take the stand is that the Turkish Parliament of the Grand National Assembly has the right to oversee the government with a question motion. In his speech, the minister used a form of parliament that underestimated the natural way of control of the legislative body.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0071par0216	Not at all.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0070par0217	Question motion...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0072par0218	Mr. President, either Mr. Hamzacebi answers from the podium, or he's here...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0073par0219	Let him finish, Mr. Elitaş, and you can talk.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0072par0220	No, let him answer from the stand if he has something to answer for, or it's not appropriate for the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0074par0221	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0072par0222	If he gets word, make a promise on the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0075par0223	Mr. Hamzacebi, go ahead, please, I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0072par0224	Speak from the stand.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0075par0225	Mr. Elitaş, please, just a minute.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0226	Just a moment, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0075par0227	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0228	Dear Elitaş...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0077par0229	No, speak from the bench. I say.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0230	...it doesn't suit you. Look, you're Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0077par0231	Mr. Hamzacebi, look, you're not going to talk here, you're going to talk there.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0232	Just a moment, sir. It's me...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0077par0233	The group doesn't have the authority to speak at any time. You'll ask the president to speak from there.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0234	Mr. President, may I?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0078par0235	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0238	Mr. Elitaş, we've been through this before. The speech of a political party's deputy leader, another political party member of the group, does not interfere, does not interfere. I remind you of that. I mean, it's a courtesy thing to do. You can't think where I'm going to talk, let me worry. You're saying it's not in accordance with the Civil Charter. You...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0079par0240	You have no right to do as you please.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0241	Look, it doesn't suit me, you're still talking to me from there. I reminded you that one day you took the stand in a way that was not in accordance with the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0079par0242	The Deputy Speaker of Parliament has given his permission.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0243	But look, I didn't object to...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0079par0244	No...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0245	...because you have the right to come out here as Deputy Director of the Justice and Development Party. I don't weigh it with the Civil Code. It's a courtesy thing to do. If you feel the need to defend yourself, your party, if you want a word, you come up here. I don't object to that. I told you that.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0079par0246	I say, let everyone hear, go there.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0247	Look, you're still interfering. Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0079par0249	You're having a conversation with me, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0250	Anyway, let me finish.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0079par0251	You're having a conversation with me.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0076par0252	You guys keep interfering. Good luck with that, Mr. Elitaş. What I'm saying is that Mr. Secretary used an inappropriate tone. I wish him well. That's the way he talks to himself. The question motion is the right of the legislature's most natural control. Take this right lightly and make all the motions you want, we won't answer. Yeah, I got the numbers. The one answered at the time of the 4,000-odd question motion, given, is a thousand-and-a-half. I don't answer, he says. Look, I'm not a lawmaker who uses the right to question a lot, I'm very limited, I don't apply this way, but I've asked half of the motions I've made haven't been answered until today. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0080par0259	Here you go, Mr. Bauken.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0081par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, our friends have expressed how much the Minister has dominated Syria and health. And I assure you, he's as much in control of the Bingol issue as he is in Syria. So let me put it this way. Now, while we were showing the photo of Bingol, we compared the city with the one who had the minister. You probably didn't listen to us. Of the cities that are his ministers, make a comparison between the cities of Kayseri, and Erzurum, and Erzincan, and Bursa, and the cities of Bingol. You'll find out how right we are about the service of Bingley. Now, he's not comfortable with too many motions, is he? The fact that there are too many motions means that you don't serve well. If you had served, today we wouldn't have had problems with the motion. So we still have dozens of motions waiting in line here. Here you are in charge of the unresolved problems of Bingol, and in general politics, where the opposition conducts inspection. And when he's doing the audit, he does it with questions and research proposals, and you have to answer them to the public. I didn't get into this thermal water thing, but I sensed a panic. Don't worry, we'll bring him in, we'll share with the General Assembly here, we'll show them what the cost is after. We're talking about a contract that one firm is in, and it's been sold for nothing. I'll also bring the election declaration of our fellow AKP MPs. I wish you hadn't given the people of Bingol the words about thermal water, about tourism, about warming, and about agriculture in the field. If you had said, "We'll sell this thermal water to one person, we'll do it in secret." Then we would have accepted it. Lastly, I just checked the news channels, the AKP government has 100...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0082par0269	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0081par0270	...F35 fighter planes. Good luck home. As a minister, you should buy at least one or two snow machines, which will cover the cost of 1 F35 fighter planes.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0082par0277	On behalf of the individuals, the final statement belongs to Mr. Mustafa Balakcı. Here you go, Mr. Pumpkin.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0083par0280	Mr. President, I'd like to take the stand on Article 69.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0082par0281	According to sarcasm?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0083par0282	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0082par0283	Nothing personal. What I see is between the Minister and the Congressman. Mr. Secretary will. Please... for God's sake. Mr. Secretary now responds to that bullying because he blames the government. Nothing happened with your person, as far as I can tell. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0084par0286	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of all of the People's Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan to ratify the Agreement for Co-operation in Health and Medicine Industries. I salute your high council. Before I begin my remarks, the brother republic became the presidential election in Turkmenistan in February, congratulating Gurbanguli Berdimuhammedov, who won the new election and was sworn on February 17th, and celebrating a successful period. In addition, Turkmenistan, the newly independent Turkmenistan, has a Bay Day on February 19th. And congratulations on your holidays from here. My fellow lawmakers, the need to co-operate internationally in the health field for the first time in the early 19th century because of cholera outbreaks on the continent of Europe. 12 countries participated in the 1st International Health Conference held on July 23, 1851 in Paris, and at the end of the meetings, an international health code of 137 articles was published. The third of these conferences held 12 times by the end of the 19th century was held in Istanbul in 1866. The main issues focused on these conferences are protecting Europe against infectious diseases such as cholera, plague, and eliminating obstacles in trade and transport due to these diseases. In addition, there have been major changes in our time in people's health. The concept of health today contains much more elements than it used to. When it comes to health, a broad perspective from patient rights to environmental health is revealed, and as a natural result, international cooperation in health is diversified and deepened. The Ministry of Health, which closely monitors all these developments and changes and is aware of the benefits of international cooperation in health and health and the benefits it will bring to our people and all humanity, gives special importance to the cooperation of foreign states. Because health is a social issue, not a federal issue. From this point of view, we are even more aware of the importance of international agreements, contracts. Dear lawmakers have just noted that our brothers in the opposition have also made some changes in health, but not enough. From here, I'd like to tell the Turkish Minister of Health what I think has changed in Turkey. As we look at it, the number of beds, 107,307 in 2002, has come close to 120,000 with the AK PARTY Powers. When we looked at his qualified bed, he was 10,000 in 2002 and now reached 35,000. We keep looking at the numbers. The number of territorial ambulances was 618, now 2.295 in 2010. With 112 emergency cases, the number of transports was 350,000 in 2002, while it currently exceeds 2 million. In the first ten minutes, it's 93 percent reach in the ambulance. That's the ratio that developed countries normally reach. There are no areas throughout Turkey without 112 emergency services. In addition to the black ambulance, 132 snow palette ambulances were deployed. In Istanbul, Balıkesir, Çanakkale and Gökceada, the fleet of air ambulances consisting of two planes and 18 helicopters continues to serve. A pregnant woman who lives in the village can now give birth to her child in hospitals in the center of the city, with the state paying her expenses, if she wants to. The health budget, 3.910 billion in 2002, increased by 2.2 times, reaching 13.9 billion Turkish liras in 2010, and currently exceeds 14 billion Turkish liras. When we look at health developments, we see that Turkey has really jumped the age. Meanwhile, because of the goodness of health care in Turkey, thousands of foreigners are coming to our country to receive health care in Turkey. When we look at eye surgery, including open-heart surgery, cancer treatments, ear-burun-mouthed, dialysis, vascular surgery, neurosurgery, orthopedic, tooth... foreign people prefer our country because of low cost and high quality and technology standards. I'd like to share with you the figures that have been held by a previous team, Turkey's Statistical Agency. The number of Turks who went abroad for treatment appears to be 47,000 in 2005. The number of Turkish citizens from abroad appears to be 55,000. Strangers coming in for treatment began to increase, found 164,000. This number is falling more and more among those who are going out -- 30,000 in 2009 -- and the number of citizens coming to Turkey for treatment is increasing, and the number of foreigners are increasing. Turkey has now moved past the times when poets write poems because of the problems they face in hospitals. I don't know if you remember, we had a poet called Abdurrahim Karakoch, who used to tell you about the treatment of patients, and he often said, "You come from a rich income, you come from a corner, you get hurt, you get hurt." He said, "Don't run away from our strange wife." Those who weren't married wouldn't know that. Thankfully, in Turkey right now, our weird, poor, guru is getting first-class health care, and the AK PARTI continues to play politics with pride. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Other than that, what else is going to happen? More things will develop. Our Defense Industry Undersecretary is now rapidly increasing domestic production in the defence industry by opening the way for offset purchases. At the same time, the Ministry of Health continues to encourage the production of offset purchases and health supplies in Turkey. On that note, we congratulate our Minister of Health on this new road. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs signed the Agreement on 12 November 2010 for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan in Health and Medical Industries. The Signed Agreement envisions co-operation between the two countries in the fields of health and medicine industry, exchange of information, changes of delegations and health experts, participation in scientific conferences and fairs on one side. I'd like to draw attention to a massacre that happened 20 years ago. Sadly, in the eyes of the world, 613 of our brothers and sisters were slaughtered in Armenia, Karabağ, Hodja, and old and young. The modern world resists not seeing Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan), now occupied by 20 percent of its territory. Sir, I salute you all while I end my promises.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0085par0304	Thank you, Mr. Pumpkin. Moving on to QA. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0086par0307	Thank you, Mayor. Dear friends, the property belongs to the General Directorate of the Prime Ministerial Foundations, where we have staff of religious officers in general in the joints of our mosques, whose use is the President of the Religious Affairs. The General Directorate of the Prime Ministerial Foundations has taken our religious officials to be invaders and has willingly victimized them. Do you intend to compensate for this sacrifice? Two: How many students are present in elementary schools in Bingol? Three: How many high schools are there, how many classrooms are there? If the number of classrooms in one county is less than the number of high school schools, it is called successful. I'd like to hear your thoughts on that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0087par0312	Congressmans, I'd like to request that your questions be relevant to the bill, if possible. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm doing my job, why are you clapping? Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0088par0316	But without a concerned minister to answer the question, the MPs...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0087par0317	I'm not saying anything, Mr. Young, but I did.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0088par0318	Keep a minister to answer the question, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0087par0319	Now, look, Mr. Sky's microphone is on, so don't stop him from asking the question.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0088par0320	Sir, you're right when you say, Mr. President, but let's get the concerned minister down here and not pick up ministers from the street.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0087par0321	Well, Reverend, we get it, he's gone, the time for his question is over. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0089par0323	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, both you and your party's spokesman are giving us information on how much our country has improved and how much you've done, and you choose to brag. Are you aware of the closure of BEDAŞ, who runs electrical operations in Haymana, one of the oldest and most radical districts of Ankara? The Haymanans must then receive electrical services from Lakehead and Poletli, and there are no workers left in Haymana to repair the power failure. In the past few days, you've been trapped in the air for ten minutes due to a power outage in Gevash district of Van. I'm sorry, but you were lucky as Minister because there were generators there, but there were no generators in any of the Haymanans. What do you intend to do about this in terms of resolving the victims of the Haymanans?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0090par0326	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0091par0327	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, in his speech, they've just spoken of the airport they're doing to Bingol. Good luck. Our only province with borders with three countries is Iğdır strategically without airports. Why is your government so negligent towards Iğdır? I wonder if the airport that's being built will open in this year's time.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0090par0329	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0092par0330	Dear President, I've asked a very clear question, which is not in need of interpretation. The question is this:
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0090par0331	I didn't say anything about you asking questions.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0092par0332	...how many students are present in the first schools? This question is clear and clear. Question 2: How many classrooms are there, and how many high schools are there? It's a clear question that won't need comment. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0093par0335	What does Turkmenistan have to do with it?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0094par0336	Dear Mr. Tanal, I'm open to comment...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0092par0337	Why didn't you ask when you were talking about Minister Bingöl?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0094par0338	Look, you're not listening to me, Mr. Tanal. I didn't ask you an open question. I didn't say anything. I didn't say anything about your person either. I gave all lawmakers a notice from the Interior Charter, which is that I said it would be better to ask questions of the bill, not to mention writing. That's my explanation.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0092par0339	Sir, the Minister is there to tell you about Bingöl.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0094par0340	I'm not saying anything. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0095par0342	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I understand from the question of Mr. Tanal. So I agree with the main idea that we need to create an environment where there are fewer classrooms. He may have asked the question in different dimensions to highlight it. Hopefully, as our investments in education continue further in Turkey, this problem will ease over time as we reduce this need for elimination. I've never been to a classroom myself. I wish this need would diminish over time. I can't argue with the fact that it's a very effective resource use. I wish these classrooms were reduced over time, as did he. I don't know anything about the foundation right now, but our relevant ministry can provide a written answer.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0096par0346	I have the file, and you're asking about 50 people to pay for it.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0095par0347	So I don't have any information that I can give you right now, and then we can get information from our relevant agency, our ministry. Mr. Gök has mentioned another malfunction in this Haymana. I'll pass it on to our concerned institution.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0097par0349	It's not a malfunction, sir. The group's closed.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0095par0350	It's closed... and I'll get it to the relevant agency, I hope. Yeah, I don't know, details. Again, thank you for that incident in Van. Of course, because of the earthquake, the container cities were formed, and since natural gas could not be used safely, there is a slight excess of electricity. It's causing some kind of compulsion in the electrical infrastructure. We'll get through this, I hope. On the other hand, Mr. Ozgun was the question of Iğdır. You know, we're building airports, not just to Bingol. We're building airports to Hakkari, İğdır, Şırnaka. We're building an airport in our previously unimaginable provinces, our territories. Iğdır is among them.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0098par0354	When?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0095par0355	He was auctioned off, construction started.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0098par0356	It was supposed to be over in March, March.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0095par0357	Now, I don't want to say anything specific, but the date of Iğdur's program, as far as I know, is 2013, but I hope my memory doesn't fool me, because there are a lot of projects. Iğdır is one of our provinces with great potential, which is actually very good microclimate. Hopefully, this airport will also have significant contributions to its development and development in the coming period. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0099par0359	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0100par0360	Mr. President, I'm going to ask you something beside the point, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0099par0361	I can't tell you not to ask, I just made a statement.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0100par0362	Well, I'll take your leave again.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0099par0363	No, of course not. Why are you making me a criminal?
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0100par0364	Okay. Now, many villages in Malatya are blocked and unfortunately the vehicle cannot be opened because it is inadequate. Recently, the workers of the Special Administration were scattered elsewhere, and they were distributed to Tucson, and to Elazığ. Now, private administration has re-integrated to buy subcontractors. I'd like to point that out from here. Moreover, the village roads of Arabgir (Arabgir) are still closed today, like Gebib, and Taşdibek. And the officers there are desperate because they don't have enough work machines. There's a machine called this routative. Unfortunately, it's not in Malatya, so the roads can't be opened, and still people haven't been able to go to the county for 45 days to buy food for their animals in the villages of Arabgir. I'm bringing this to your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0101par0368	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0102par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's not your concern, but Mr. Commissioner may answer. When it comes to Turkmenistan, I'd like to ask you a question about the Turkish world. You know, we're celebrating the 20th anniversary of the independence of the Turkish republics, and they're celebrating it, but it seems that Turkey is not very interested in these celebrations. As far as we can see and track these celebrations, a minister from Turkey, Foreign Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President did not go. Now, in the coming process, new elections are being held, and the President's election has been made. As Prime Minister of Turkey, is a visit to Turkmenistan considered as President, Foreign Minister, or is an invitation considered? I'm just saying, for the record. I hope your relevant ministries or zatuals will respond if possible. I really care because the cooling between Turkey and the Turkish world will weaken Turkey's power, weaken its regional power, weaken its global power. I asked this question to consider this point. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0103par0374	Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0104par0375	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister one more question: Turkey is moving away from the Central Asian Turkish republics, while for some reason, Turkey is attending meetings of the Arab Union and signing its decisions. As far as I know, Turkey is not a member of the Arab Union. How do you interpret this? I mean, how do you judge the fact that Turkey is such a member of the Arab League, that there are so many sides to the problems of geography, and that it's away from the Turkish world? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0105par0378	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0106par0379	Mr. President, thank you. Private government workers concerning Malatiah, of course, are not a special arrangement for Malatya. Generally, our private administrations had a norm surplus, overstaffed number of employees. This was actually an arrangement to comfort private administrations. From there, the central administration was transferred to our staff surplus workers. So our private administrations were actually relieved financially, and they were more sustainablely funded. Hence, a healthier structure has been formed for them to serve better. Of course, a lot of our lawmakers have expressed it today about the country roads. Winter conditions, we're having a very heavy winter. It's been snowing harder than it's been for a long time. In particular, in our particular provinces, these are much, much higher levels, and here we are talking about roads that have been snowed for several metres, washed and washed and closed several times. There are challenges to this, of course. Whatever your capacities are, there's always trouble when there's an over-the-normal rain. Here's another example from Bingol, from where I know it: we have 320 villages, we have about 900, and it's a really messy structure. And our people who work here, within a program, have to start from group routes and start from step to step. Until we reach these remote areas, of course, there's a certain time, but we'd like to see it done as soon as possible, as you can. The Commissioner will answer Mr. Shandir's question. Let me make a brief comment on Mr. Original Day's question. Just yesterday, I opened a meeting with the Central Asian republics on the Uplifting Business Union. There were participants from all Central Aysa countries in Turkey. Turkey's development, bilateral development aid is currently more than 50 per cent with Central Asian republics. More than half of the support provided by TİKA (TİKA) is the same, so we are not neglectful of the Turkish Republics in any way. My ministry also launched a special programme on Kyrgyztan. Just yesterday, a deputy minister from Kyrgyzistan and I discussed Turkey's ties with Kyrgyztan, and discussed how we could support it. I, too, will soon visit Kyrgyzistan with my bureaucrats and some of our businessmen. That region is very important to us, its development, its development, its development, its development, its development, especially in those regions, with the Middle East, with the Balkans, the more we develop relationships -- not the alternative, but all of them complementary places -- that's in our best interest, I think. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0107par0386	You said nothing about the Arab League, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0108par0387	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0109par0388	Mr. President, I'd like to answer Mr. Shandir's question, stating that it's from memory. There is no change in Turkey's policy on Central Asian republics. This relationship is not a matter of choice for us. It is our primary goal to ensure that our relationship with these countries and our kinsmen is far too good to be compared to other countries, and that they will not harm those countries in line with mutual interests. I don't think it's right to talk about a lack of interest. The President of Kyrgyztan was here more recently, addressed our General Assembly, gave a very moving speech to all of us. The Turkish President is coming to Turkey next week. So, I'm sorry that you actually felt that way, but this kind of thing doesn't exist in terms of our foreign policy, and it can't be. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0110par0391	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. TO BE CONTINUED IN THE CONTROL OF THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TURKEY PROGRESSING TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE AUDIENCE Agreement for Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan between Health and Medicine Industries, signed on November 12, 2010, has been approved. On behalf of the groups, the first word on the matter is for the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0111par0400	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on the 1st Amendment of the Dair Law Bill, that the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan are eligible to co-operate in the Health and Medical Industry Areas. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, Turkmenistan has often carried a closed policy for many years. Generally, the administration is drawing away from regional or international problems in line with the policy of neutrality. The country is ranked first in terms of Turkey, where our Turkish contractors, our firms, have the most projects in Central Asia, and Turkish engineers and architects' projects are worth 21 billion dollars. I think we need to increase our agreements on natural gas, which Turkmenistan, which is the main producer, and is beyond the cooperation of this health and medicine industry that we're building. However, Turkmenistan does not have a very close relationship with Turkey at the moment, especially with the transfer of natural gas and marketing of it, and it seems that the Republic of China has agreed with the market and transport of natural gas. We hope and hope that such agreements can create more suitable conditions for Turkey in the coming process for the transfer and transfer of Turkish gas to Turkey. Of course, when we make these agreements, we all want the development of our economy in Turkey to be reduced to a minimum by our agreements with other countries. But, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, beyond our agreements with such countries, economic events or social events that are right under our noses, unfortunately make it necessary for all of us to learn exemplary lessons. Two days ago, on February 21st, we were greatly startled by the fire that took place in the heart of our Ankara, Dynasty of the Dynasty. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, this fire is not an ordinary fire, but Ankara has returned from the brink of disaster. Look what the local fire in this hill is called the Uphill Rebellion. If this fire had not been stopped, it would have been possible to reach our Ankara fortress, its iconic fortress. Again, as one of the world's largest museums, the Anatolian Museum of Civilities is just a short distance from the Dynasty of Dynasty; again, the mosque of Ahi Elvan, a mosque that dates from the 13th century; Suluhan, its construction began at the time of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror and II. There's an inn that went on in the white age, there's coppers in it, there's designers that we call beads; all of this, again, Rice Khan, my dear friends from 1739, and the Market of Coppers, and right next to this hill, the capital of the Concessor Street, the electronic world. These... have not yet been understood... the tragedy of Ankara, my dear friends. Do we have to pay a much greater price to understand these disasters? Three buildings were completely burned in the fire that took place today at Dynasty, and thirteen shops in part, but all the items inside were destroyed by burning, and were damaged along with dozens of tradesmen's families. Unfortunately, the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and the city of Altındağ, which is very close to the scene of the fire, have been inadequate to the municipality at a distance of 150 metres. Do you know why the precious MPs and I are telling you this? Fire trucks couldn't get to the fire site because, as you know, in very old settlements, the streets are narrow, and unfortunately, fire trucks couldn't get into these streets. Now, why wasn't the possibility of such a fire considered? Look, insurance companies don't insure any of the stores there because they say there's always the possibility of fire here, and this is a risk for insurance companies. So why can't our government and our municipalities identify the risk that insurance companies see and detect? My dear friends, I have a very simple suggestion: these places form the historical fabric of our Ankara and Turkey, which contain our history, our culture and our economy, thousands of tradesmen. If that fire hadn't been stopped, I can easily tell you that Ankara's economy would have suffered a severe collapse. This is why it wasn't thought of, I especially want to address the Ankara Mayor, the Mayor of Altındağ here: it's obvious that fire trucks can't enter narrow streets like this. So, dear lawmakers, if we could build water tanks in places like this, in narrow streets, at least in certain places, can't we build fire trucks that can either be built underground or on top of the ground or on those streets? Is that so hard to think about? Why don't we think about it? A real history would burn, my dear friends. I've really lost my sleep. I know the national fortune there, I know the history. Look, I'm talking about buildings built in the 1400th century, in the 1500s. Is it that cheap? Like human life, city life is not cheap. It is also the greatest duty in our municipalities to protect them. I bring up a very constructive proposal through you: We must immediately place water tanks in places like this or in places like this that many of the fire trucks in our Turkey cannot enter, we must keep fire hoses here, and there are no fire trucks that can be reached immediately. We must proceed immediately to these fires without hiding behind his alibi. Dear lawmakers, the Ditchers' tradesmen are awaiting immediate and immediate concrete steps, waiting for their losses to be compensated. These victims must be compensated, their shops must be restored as soon as possible. All debts to banks and the public must be transferred. This should help our friends breathe a little. But again, I have very serious concerns about this, very serious doubts. You remember, again, the heart of Ankara's heart, Modern Market, was completely burned in 2003. The word that the owners of this shop here would be repaired immediately after the fire, but in the course of the 2003 fire, none of the shop owners in Modern Market have been compensated. They've all been thrown all over our Ankara, they've lost their trades, they've lost their relationships, and they've suffered a lot. And I hope, based on these painful examples, that the victimization of the tradesman's promises will happen as soon as possible, and I think that we should all be able to open the way for our shopkeepers, who have lost hope, who have lost their commercial lives, to continue their business activities in a much better way than that. That's why I say to all of our shop owners who have been damaged in this fire and to the Ankarans who have survived a great deal of danger from the fire, I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit03spe0112par0416	Thank you, Mr. Sky. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0112par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 70th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 1st Article of the Dair Legislature and Foreign Commission Report, which says it is proper to ratify the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Turkmenistan in the Field of Health and Medicine Industries. Commission? Here. Government? Here. İstanbul MP Mustafa Atash on behalf of individuals. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0113par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of my fellow lawmakers, the Court of the Republic of Turkey 161th and the Court of Health and Medical Industries, to ratify the Agreement for Co-operation in Health and Medical Industries. I salute you all. Health is a very important factor for people to live peacefully and happily. It is not possible for an unhealthy person to enjoy the world's blessings. Of course, our friends who spoke before me about the services of our Ministry of Health talked about them, and I won't think about them very much, but as you all know, as our nation has seen, during the AK PARTI rulings, the line of hospitals in Turkey, which had become an ordeal before the AK PARTI powers, has been made healthy, happy, peaceful, and safe, thanks to the hospitals and health centers that are being given a lot of thanks today. A human-based health policy has been developed and implemented during the AK PARTY administrations, taking into account all parts of society and all the needs of our country. Our primary goal is the health and happiness of our society. In addition to domestic policies during the EC PARTY administrations, foreign policies have been accelerated, and the importance of relations with countries around the world has increased day by day. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers today have led to the diversification and deepening of international co-operation in this area, from a large perspective that extends from patient rights to environmental health and technological improvements in the globally recorded concept of health. One of the most important values in the world is that no doubt people are healthy. Health problems worldwide have also increased the need for cooperation between countries in this area because a disease spread throughout the world in any country can quickly spread rapidly to all parts of the world as transportation develops. Thus, instead of their own health problems, countries have also gone to a state of concern for health problems in the world. Dear MPs, as you know, relations between our country and Turkmenistan are versatile and diverse. Co-operation in the areas of political, economic, commercial, military, education and culture is under way. Turkey-Turkmenistan's political relations have gained a new dynamic and momentum, especially since 2007, and in parallel, the traffic of contact and visit between the two countries has increased steadily. Without a doubt, in this development, Mr. Berdimuhamedov, who came to power in February 2007, his constructive attitude towards contact with other countries and the role of his policy on multilateral relations has been great. It has also contributed to this process, after Mr. Berdimuhamedov's return to power, by taking initiative with the right timing, to show our close interest and support for Turkmenistan at the highest level. On the occasion of his visit to Turkmenistan on 11 November 2010, Mr. President said: "The Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkmenistan signed the Co-operation between the State Minister for Health and Medical Sciences, Mr. Zafer Çağan, and Vice President of the Council of Ministers of Turkmenistan, in the city of Turkmenyev on 12 November 2010. The Agreement is envisioned for cooperation between the two countries in the areas of health and medicine industry, exchange of information, exchange of delegations and health experts, and participation in scientific conferences and fairs on one side. I would like to thank the staff of the AK PARTI rulings, which carried out Turkey's march on the 2023 journey, and the Ministry of Health and Foreign Affairs staff in private, all of you, to help improve the health of our country and the people of Turkmenistan.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0114par0021	Thank you, Mr. Paperman. Talks on Article 1 have been completed. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of Law publishing. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0115par0030	I'd like to say something, if I may.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0114par0031	By the way, I'll vote this whole thing quickly, and then I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0115par0032	Before we vote...
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0114par0033	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0115par0036	Mr. President, I'm sorry I neglected you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0114par0037	Not at all, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0115par0038	The fire in this Ankara Nation, at the Uphill Ditchers, has caused some serious damage. Our tradesman has suffered a great deal of damage. This market is a market for urbanism based on narrow streets that fire departments can't enter. Therefore, we demand that both our government and the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality, as the National Movement Party Group, take the necessary measures. There's been financial damage to this fire. We're grateful that the goods are won, that they haven't been killed, but we want the government to give the support our government needs, as the National Movement Party. May God bless our country, our nation, our people, and I thank you for your promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0116par0042	Don't mention it. Mr. Business, please.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0117par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to thank Mr. Shandır, who has brought up an important matter. We, the Ankara MPs, have just visited that fire site with our Parliament Speaker, and we have had the necessary talks with our friends in the municipality for the necessary measures, both our state and NGOs will help friends who have been damaged by this fire. Thank you so much for this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-02-23sit04spe0118par0054	[[Continue]] The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. Also, if there are those who will vote as acting ministers, I request that they vote to which minister, in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, which includes the color of the game and the name and the signature of its vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the Persuasion of Agreement for Co-operation between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of Turkmenistan in Health and Medicine Industries: ▪ Number of votes used: 209 [[x]] The bill has been adopted and legalized. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the UNDP-Istanbul Special Sector Centre for International Development (IICPSD) within the United Nations Development Programme in the 5th place, with the draft of the Dair Law and the Foreign Commission Report. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Approvement of the Common Committee's Decision 1/2011 in the Temporary Free Trade Agreement on behalf of the Palestinian Liberation Organization. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Members of parliament, since the Commission and the government will not be present after this, it is 15 p.m. on Tuesday (February 28th 2012) to discuss other tasks from the commissions in order of verbal question proposals and draft laws and proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00, and I wish all my friends a good week.
