tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement is from Şanlıurfa MP Mahmut Kozar, who asked for the name of World Health Day. Here you go, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge to mark World Health Week. I hereby salute the High Council. It is celebrated every year by the United Nations as Health Week from April 7th to April 13th. As is known, health is one of the most basic human rights. All countries are struggling at the point where their people are healthy, they are prosperous, and generations are qualified and healthy. The importance of health in human life is like the state of the great Ottoman Sultan Süleyman. /It's like a breath of health in a state jihanya. Turkey has taken significant steps in recent years at the point of the quality of health care and easy access to health care. Earlier, when our citizens took public service on different standards as pensioners, BUG-KUR, SEC and green card, through state and SEC hospitals, according to the state and health care situation in which they were covered, there was a transformation programme today in which all our citizens received first-class health care, regardless of the fact that the SEC hospitals had been completed, according to their public service, green card, or pension. Turkey has not had any money for years, so it also ended the hospital hostage period of patients with these latest practices. It is now clear that even our patients with green cards will receive services in intensive care and emergency services at any private hospital they want. On the other hand, it is one of the most important changes in the sense that 112 emergency services are popularized, given home health care, the right to choose physicians for all our citizens, the cheapness of drug prices, and the fact that our citizens are buying their medicines from the pharmacy they want. Of course, these fine works have also been appreciated by our citizens and have increased to 73.1 per cent in health care, which was 39.5% in 2003. Dear friends, the progress that both the World Health Organization and international organisations accept as a basic reference to health care in a country are improvements in the country's basic health care indicators. As of the inoculation rate, Turkey is currently above 94 per cent of the average European Union at 97 per cent. At the rate of the baby's death, Turkey again narrowed the distance of the OECD countries in the period of about thirty-five years to nine percent today, at the time of the baby's death in 2003, when it was in the 28th century. When you look at the declines at the mother's death rate, we are able to see the decreases in parallel again. Of course, one of the most important parts of providing these services at this point is the health care workers, no doubt. I, on this occasion, owe a debt of gratitude to all the health workers who have shown a great deal of sacrifice to 75 million of our people day and night. Dear friends -- yesterday, April 11th -- is the 92nd anniversary of the rescue of my MP, Şanliurfa, from enemy invasion. Şanlıurfa is a city of history, a city of civilization, and an important city in which the history of the world has been rewritten. At the same time, the land of the birth of Abraham, the father of the three religions, the city of the prophets, the city of Job, the holy Shuaib, and many prophets. This city of civilization, this ancient city, this historic city, which was known as the twelve and twelve years ago, led by the leaders of the judgment of Şanliurfa, fought for salvation, and the day that on 11 April he triumphed in this struggle for salvation. I, in this struggle for salvation, honor and thank you for our sacrifice, especially our martyrs, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0003par0018	Thank you, Mr. Runar. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Müsh MP Demir Çelik, who wants to speak about the problems of Mush. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0004par0023	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs regarding the problems of Mush. I salute you all. Our province is a city of agriculture and livestock with a hundred square miles [8,200 square km] of the population of around 420,000. In addition to having Turkey's third largest plain, Mus has the potential to meet the agricultural needs of dozens of provinces on the scale of Malazgirt and Blurq, while the denominator is ranked at the last in 81 counties per capita. Over the years, our province of Mush, a province that has exhausted its animalism, which has exhausted its agriculture, has faced serious problems from the fact that the winter conditions of 2011-2012 have been difficult and difficult. Although quotas are applied to the sugar beets, which are the only industrial institution on one side, the sugar beets are now left to rot underground, thanks to the fact that this company, or this institution, has not been able to do organized collection in its time. In addition, many of our hard winter workers have consumed their vows, bait plants, hay, grass, and are either unable to find them or receive them at high prices and have fallen into the hands of loan sharks. At the same time, about 12,000 farmers in the 2011 production operation needed to benefit from agricultural support, while about 4,000 farmers were deprived of that support for reasons of water, leaving them to their own destiny, along with loan sharks and loan sharks. On March 26, 2012, hundreds of homes, dozens of schools and mosques were seriously damaged, damaged citizens were placed in boarding schools or rented in the centre of our Malazgirt, Bulanık, Rustemgedik and Sultanite villages. A sense of immediate return to their homes, unfortunately, is not, when it should be. Despite the harsh winter conditions, the snow is rapidly melting as a result of the rising rain and rising heat. The melting snow causes the flood of the Blackwater, especially the Murat River. In the wake of the four days of the flooding of the Blackwater, the villages of our Hasköy are under water, and many villages, especially the villages of Sungu, are under water. The villages of Malazgirt, the Konakkuran of Malazgirt, the Rustemgedik of Bulanık, the Yoncan, the Black Sea, and the villages of the villages of the villages, await the very serious problems and tribulations of the peoples because of the flood of the teas of Alexander, Goshkar, Hoshan, the overbreakers, Mengel, and the president. These challenges must be considered. While Mush has the potential to feed dozens of provinces with its agricultural-based economy, the Ministry of Economics must give him the opportunity to make the ultimate use of the Propulsion Act. Because in those plains, it's hard to tell if you can grow all kinds of products based on industrial mamulu tobacco, sugarpancars, food plants, clover, grain and agriculture, and if you have a climate of that kind, you don't want to be deprived of it or deprived of people living in the county and the county. Likewise, in these difficult winter conditions, the high cost of municipalities left alone in the fight against snow has not been met. In addition to this high cost, while our municipalities, which are forced to take measures against the risk of flooding, are unable to pay their staff's fees, it is unfortunately not from the province that the transfer of an employment worker from ISKUR. With an application that considers all of this, I say goodbye once again with respect to all of you, hoping that his problems will be resolved.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0005par0035	Thank you, Mr. Steel. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Adana MP Ali Demirçallı, who wants to talk about the problems of Çukurova University. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Demirçalı.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0006par0040	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the land assigned to the University of Science and Technology, founded in Adana. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the newly established Adana University of Science and Technology has brought great joy to our province of Adana. However, the problems of universities that have been created in the world without precedent, academic infrastructure and feasibility, are now very much living in our newly established university. In 1970, the country's most advanced agricultural faculty, which was dedicated to Çukurova University by officials at that time, and we are proud to see today, was assigned to the new university of Çukurova on an administrative day, with the consent and consent of the University of Çukurova, a 903 species, species, type, and relatives at the Turunçgil Gen Resources Centre, where the world has looked at it with envy over the last 30 years. The survey of land for the new university has been sloppy, unplanned and insensitive, and two of our universities have faced the transfer of 1,700 per cent to the Adana University of Science and Technology, located at Çukurova University. Security forces' attitude towards professors -- as far as I'm concerned -- has led to unpleasant events. 142 professorships, doctorates, master's and bachelor's thesis were conducted in this area. There have been 307 broadcasts, mostly internationally. The olive gene garden and cotton research areas, also known as the first-class absolute watery farmland, are also wanted to be removed or removed from the university. Much of the country's governance, due to climate constraints, is also needed to resolve the problems of citruses in the Eastern Mediterranean region, and also the conservation and enrichment of gene gardens in this region due to climate constraints is of great importance to the future of the citrus industry. For these reasons, the region needs a gene center to provide for its future needs, and it must be protected. I'm afraid the establishment of the University of Science and Technology on agricultural land and its reputation in this way would be unpleasant and damaging to its development. There is no example in the world of opening a new university next to a university. It is unfortunate that a quick land detection was made to bring the settlement for free without the opinion of Çukurova University. In this case, it is a weakness of local government that the Adana Metropolitan Deputy Mayor, whose job is to protect the land values and agricultural areas of the green areas, has signed off on the development of agricultural land. It is not the responsibility of a statesman to make and protect our laws that our ministries have transformed the land of agriculture, protected by Law 5403 and absolute protection, into zoning land. What benefits did Adana Metropolitan Deputy Mayor, who signed the allocation of the settlement, have for zoning and urbanization? Would it not have been considered to receive the opinion and consent of the university, which is Adana's dynamo? On what grounds was that ignored? What benefits did the Ministry of National Education, which signed the collection field, have for education in creating a joint settlement? How did the hearts of the newly-signed Finance Ministry officials agree to open up the agricultural area, destroy gene research fields? We expect the authorities to explain the reasons for this illegal allocation to us and all of Adana. I think it would be appropriate for the Department of Agriculture to do some research on the matter. Remember, a value cannot be created by destroying it. Let's keep our country values, our land assets, and our gene research. He's calling on our ministers and local administrators to help build a settlement worthy of Adana, and I hope you will not spare the support of my dear friends. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0007par0050	Thank you, Mr. Demirçalı. According to the Civil Charter 60, I will make a promise to my fellow lawmakers who have entered the system. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0008par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, a distinguished city, dedicated to many actionmen, whose lives are dedicated to the people of a blessed land of Ibrahim, is one of our most important days to contribute to the 90-year anniversary of the rescue of the city of Şanliurfa, the city of heroes, whose neighbor is starving and living under false pretenses. With these thoughts and feelings, I celebrate the deliverance of Sanliurfa from the enemy's occupation, and salute the great Parliament and our holy countrymen.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0009par0058	Thank you, Mr. Sky. Mr. Halaman.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0010par0061	Mr. President, I thank you. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been constantly reproducing the major issue of investigation, research for days, but in every corner of our country, in Amasya, Şırnak, there are two soldiers dying every day. I call them God rest their souls. I want the attention of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, therefore the ministers. May God have mercy on those who die. I thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0009par0063	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Agha.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0011par0066	Mr. President, today in the Radical newspaper, he uncovered a fact about the Song Successor. For that, I thank Mr. Ezgi Başaran. I, unfortunately, have been trying for six months to protect Israel that the shield on this Globecik is the U.S. base, the shield of the United States, but unfortunately, the Turkish Grand National Assembly has not been able to provide such information, neither the Prime Minister nor any other institution. He's writing to the American Embassy today, asking for permission to enter. And they're giving a very good answer, and they say, "This base is not available right now, you can't enter it. This is the Great National Assembly of Turkey, thanks to Ezgi Başaran. It's a US base. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0012par0069	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0013par0072	Mr. President, thank you. Recently, it's almost customary for government members to threaten and attack university teachers, scientists. Forest and Water Affairs Minister Veysel Eroglu's words during his visit to Cumhuriyet daily were the last example of this. In particular, he accuses scientists of acting as groups of energy companies and says they will complain to the prosecutors, to the university, to the NGO. It's obviously a threat to college, science, interference, abuse of authority. He made a similar attempt on a research report on Onur Hamzaoğlu. He was brought to trial by his science teacher, who accused him of being a charlatan, and was sentenced for defamation. Hopefully, this punishment will set an example for all ministers who want to intervene in science in a similar way. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0014par0076	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0015par0079	Thank you, Mr. President. On April 9, 2012, we had one martyr, six wounded in a terrorist attack in Amasya. We lost one of those wounded on April 10th; he was our wounded, martyred brother, Petty Officer Osman Can Turkgöl. We all buried Osman Can Türkgöl yesterday at Osmaniye Daziçi. We delivered Osman Can Türkgöl to his permanent resting place. He also cursed terror, the political extensions of terrorism, and the mindset that did not fight terrorism in relation to the funeral of Osmaniyeli, Düzicili, Osman Can Türkgöl. His wife wanted revenge, his father was proud and upright, but there a brother named Elijah said: "The state must be like the state, the state should be like the state, not give the traffickers the money of the world and don't pay our martyrs as alms." I wanted to share those statements with you. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0016par0082	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0017par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of the massacre of personnel at the Ministry of Health, an employee who was transferred today committed suicide. With the coroner's report, his life was taken into account for his transfer. Once again, I share with you the end of this inhuman work in the Ministry of Health, and to the attention of the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0018par0088	Thank you, Mr. Light. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to investigate the difficulties caused by the peanut manufacturers, to identify the persecution caused by the government's practices, to address these problems and to determine solutions, we propose and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened under the basis of Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 104 and 105. Osmaniye has an important location as a location, but has not made much economic progress. Osmaniye is in a position with the right climate and soil conditions for peanut agriculture. This has made the peanut unique to Osmaniye from agriculture to industry and trade. Apricots for Malatya, apples for Amasya, tea for Rize, pistachio for Gaziantep, and peanuts for Isparta, whatever that means, peanuts for Osmaniye. Although 38.84% of Turkey's peanuts are met in Osmaniye, close to 90% are marketed in Osmaniye. China and India, who export peanuts, share the first two places in the world, while China singlely performs 46.94% of total exports. Turkey's shellfish exports seem to be scarce. In 2007, Turkey made 91% of the import of shellfish from China, 95% of the import of shell-free peanuts. To address the problems of the peanut manufacturer, problems such as regeneration of the peanut seed, lowering high fertilizer prices, resolving the problem of irrigation and the height of irrigation costs need to be resolved. Some of the peanut manufacturers have to take out loans to pay their entry supply and labor fees, and they say the loans they get are high. The loans to manufacturers must be provided with support for their rates. The problems of the Ottoman economy, which is the basis of the Ottoman world's peanut manufacturers and its managers, must be investigated, and the necessary measures must be taken. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Elizipt]] [[Scholarship]] 6) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] 7) Tuca Tuskay [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Lug]] [[Adana]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 14) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Kütahya]] [[Kastamon]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] [[Ankara]] [[Mughle]] [[Inconceived]] 24) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the issues of Hatay Province and determine measures to be taken, the Constitution is 98. and 104 of Turkey's Parliamentary Council of the National Assembly. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. 18/10/2011 Hatay is one of our country's cultural and social richest provinces. Its natural beauty, historical and cultural accumulation, is as unfortunate as it is that citizens of various ethnic origins and religious beliefs live in peace, the sea, the plateau, the mountains, and the tourism potential, with all these properties that are affable to agriculture, but are not needed. Hatay is Turkey's gateway to the Middle East, as it borders Syria. Hatay, the first known church in the world, is also one of the key points of the belief tourism map with Sen Pierre, at the point of birth, development and expansion of the three heavenly religions. The Antioch Mosaic Museum is the second largest museum in the world with its mosaics on display. Hatay, who has all the natural roofs needed for tourism, unfortunately did not benefit from those traits due to unconscious policies. You, the Ministry of Culture, who did not run and did not intend to run a study to become the pilgrimage center of the Pierre Church, have abandoned a great opportunity for Hatay's introduction. Hatay's potential for agriculture is not only considered tourism. From our country's favorite plains, the Amik Plain expects the completion of a year-long irrigation project, the finishing of canals. Our farmer is still trying to solve the water problem with the soil dams of his own means. Although age vegetables and fruit, olive oil, cotton, wheat, citrus, carrot, mayanosis, and organic agriculture are one of the most likely cities in the production and exports, Hatay is unable to take advantage of this opportunity because the agricultural inputs are very high, limited, and cannot pay on time. It reduces the number of farmers when the land is limited and the produce produced with great expense and effort is unappreciated. Hatay is waiting for the government's solution programme, which could be a brand in agriculture with the creation of greenhouse villages and the support of zero interest loans in fruitism. Hatay's other problems include the failure of the Ulla ship, which was sinking and containing toxic waste in 2004, the contamination of toxic waste, as well as the decline of marine and environmental pollution, the lack of water products facilities, the transfer of harmful waste into the sea, and the pollution of the thermal plant found in Alexander's Gulf. Also, the lack of organised industrial zones, even though the neighbouring provinces have been encouraged, Hatay's failure to benefit from this opportunity has hampered Hatay's industry. Despite the possibility of investing in any sector, Hatay is the leading member of our country's top cities in the ranking of unemployment data. Although there are private sectors or public investments in the region, especially up to Alexanderun, it is not possible to see public investment in the series of Gizhan, Hassa, Reyhanlı, Kumlu, Antioch, Altınözı, Yaylağı, and Samandağ. In addition, private sector investments are not available. For these reasons, the Constitution is 98, with the aim of investigating the issues of Hatay Province and determining measures to be taken. And the 104th Grand National Assembly of Turkey. And 105. In accordance with the clauses, we'd like to submit and propose that a parliamentary investigation be opened. 1) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[İzmir]] [[Antalya]] [[Ankara]] [[Kayseri]] 6) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Adana]] [[Inconceived]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Antalya]] [[Mersin]] [[Tripoli]] [[Scholarship]] 15) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[Adana]] [[Manisa]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 19) Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu [[İzmir]] [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the opening of Parliamental Research under the basis of Article 98 of our Constitution, Article 104 and 105 of the Institution, in order to determine and determine the consequences of these problems and to identify the problems due to the problems caused by legislation and practices, to investigate the problems that have won traditional legislature in the Mediterranean region. Extremism in our culture is a phenomenon that has been going on since the past and has been changing shapes over time, which our people in the Mediterranean climate belt have applied in the summer to get away from heat and mosquitoes. So crosswalking has been a need for the people of the region, not a luxury. Because of the summer temperatures, the locals are heading towards plateaus with relatively cool and dry air, increasing demand for the plateaus on forest terrain, and putting pressure on forest areas along with them. Our province of Osmaniye is located in the eastern Mediterranean region, at the final point of Çukurova to the east, with 42% covered by forests. In our province, pedestrianism has emerged as a traditional way of life, as a result of the warm climate. Within the borders of Osmaniye, 555 Ha forest areas were occupied by structures such as about 15,000 dwellings, huts, and huts under the tradition of crosswalking. It has not been established on a legal basis, but as a problem, it has grown more and more complicated, and the solution has become more difficult to solve until today. In the borders of Osmaniye, Adana and Mersin, with the biggest problems in the crossroads in our country, there are tens of thousands of bows at the centre of the forest and next to it, and hundreds of thousands of people are taking advantage of these plateaus. All public investments have been made in these areas, including asphalt roads, electricity, water, PTT, and health clinics. It is a fact that the forest organization is court-martialed by thousands of citizens. It is clear that this negative picture will increase day after day, depending on global warming in the world and on the socioeconomic state of the people. Turkey does not have cross-country laws for people to benefit from. First of all, our Constitution is 169 and 170. Under the clause, the Law on Yayla and Yayla must be passed. In the existing laws, the pasture, the pasture, and the pedestrians must also be covered by this law. The practicality of all these issues is considered appropriate to open a parliamentary investigation to determine what should be discussed in the way to address problems. 1) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[İzmir]] [[Scholarship]] [[Mersin]] [[Manisa]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] 8) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[Elizipt]] [[Lug]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Tekirdağ]] 13) Adnan Safik Ugly [[Hatay]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Kastamon]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] 19) Emin Haluk Ayhan [[Denizli]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mersin]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Antalya]] [[Adana]] [[Mughle]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. Congressmans, we now move on to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Law Bill on the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters, which is ranked in the 2nd place, where we left off from the Ministry, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Law proposal for the development of forest villagers; Law proposal for the development of forest villages; İstanbul MP Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gırdar Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce and 68 MPs; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B MP Mehmet Şandirin MP; Law proposal for the development of forest villages; Republican People's Party Group Chairs Mehmet Akif Hamzaçebi, Ankara MP Emine Gır Tarhan and Yalova MP Muharrem İnce; 2/B Peace Act; 2/B Agreement Act; Ministership for Foreign Affairs; Ministership of Foreign Affairs and Development; Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of Turkish Parliament; and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament; and Ministership of the Turkish Parliament and Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Development; Ministership of Parliament and Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Development; Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Ministership of Turkish Parliament and Developments of Parliaments of Parliaments of Parliament and Parliament. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Yesterday's unification completed a speech on the whole bill, considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code, on behalf of the Party of Peace and Democracy. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to İstanbul MP Akif Hamzacebi. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0019par0289	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all. We're discussing a very important bill of law and commitments that concern some 10 million citizens in the total sixty-eight districts of Turkey. 10 million of our citizens are waiting for a problem to be resolved, which has been called ▪2/B. However, the bill is a very broad bill, not only about 2/B, but also about the arrangements for the sale of treasured farmland, which is referred to as 2/A. The three main groups, including 2/A, 2/B, and treasury farmland, organise the bill. Valuable lawmakers are the fields of land which we call "a" and "a" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" and "b" are the fields of the forest law. For this reason, they are named after the land of ▪2/A/B, or the land of ▪2/B. 2/A is a land dedicated primarily to the agriculture and animal use of forest villagers, as well as to the use of forests that have lost its property, mainly for agricultural purposes and for agricultural purposes. Other than 2/A and 2/B, the group that we call the treasure's agricultural land is the land that the citizen uses as an agricultural land. The biggest problem is 2/B, and there's no major problem with 2/A land. As a matter of fact, this bill contains provisions that are essentially repeating the arrangements for 2/A, which regulate it a little bit more systematically. However, we have motions to make arrangements that may cause hesitation, and as their turn comes, our friends will give us the information. The biggest problem is the 2/B land. Again, 2/B is the land that exists in sixty-eight districts of Turkey. 2/B land has been on Turkey's agenda since long ago. The fundamental provisions of these lands, described in the Constitution of 1961 in 1971 for the first time, have been repeated in a similar arrangement in the Constitution of 1982, but since 1971, the problem of 2/B has continued, which is about forty-one years old. So its property is a land group owned by citizens, but owned by the structure on it, or the property of its agricultural activities. (x) 198 S. The Numbered Basmaz is added to the 93rd Union's Charter, dated 11/4/2012. The problem stemming from this bilateral structure of property stands a major obstacle to our citizen. This bilateral structure is the most important obstacle to our citizen's happiness, as property belongs to the treasury, property belongs to the citizens, but the citizen cannot save the land because of the lack of a deed. The citizen can't invest here, the state accepts him as an invader, sends him an expiration mission. What will happen tomorrow? Am I going down or is my building going down? I've lived on this land for fifty years, sixty years, eighty years, a hundred years, and my ancestors lived here. What happens tomorrow? The state considers me an invader, the concern our citizen has for putting his head on the pillow in the evening. We will not have done our duty as a state until we have eliminated this anxiety and brought peace to our citizens. Now, during the election, we, the Republican People's Party, saw this problem and announced our project under the name of the İstanbul/B Peace Project, along with our President, Mr Kemal Kilicdaroglu. He wants to make peace with the citizen state, enough is enough, give me my service, don't consider me an intruder, I want to make peace. Therefore, in the name of our proposal of the law, we have called it the Law on Peace 2/B. Let the government extend their hand, and this problem will be over. That's where we move. We don't consider the citizen an intruder here because our citizen came to Istanbul, came to İzmir, came to Ankara, came to big cities. Emigration from the village to the city is a fact of Turkey. As a result of the industrialisation policy that has been implemented since the 1950s, there is a major population movement in the city. For example: When we came to Istanbul as a family in 1967, the population of Istanbul was 1,700 thousand, and now there is a city that has reached 14 million. When people come to Istanbul to work in factories, they need a home to put their heads in. If the state, municipalities, the Ministry of Public Housing, not all authorities authorized to plan zoning have been able to give citizens an zoning land in the face of this migration, the citizen must create its own solution, so the 2/B land is open to settlements. I'd like to give an example: our citizen came to Istanbul, and he came to Beykoz. There's the Pashabahçe Factory, there's the beaver factory, there's the botticam, there's the workers working here. Tens of thousands come in here to work, but there's no house, no land; somehow these 2/B fields lead to settlements. The citizen also buys these land at a price, and I'll tell you that. So it's absolutely wrong to consider citizens who use 2/B as invaders; because of the need, the citizen has gone there, paid a price for someone, bought and used this place, and has been using it since then; for more than 30, 40, 50 years, he's been using it -- we can say for the forest villagers for hundreds of years -- since their ancestors, grandfathers. The Constitution is the key obstacle to solving this property problem. In fact, the 170th article of the Constitution has made an arrangement with good intentions. After establishing basic provisions for the protection of forests in Article 169, he also made a provision under the protection of the forest village, which cannot be narrowed down to forest borders in order to prevent forest invasions, but can be devoted to the use of the forest village villagers who were removed before 31/12/1981 due to their loss of forest property. So the land that was taken out of the jungle can only be reserved for the benefit of the forest peasant. The intention is good, let's give it to the forest village so it doesn't move to the settlement, or the forests will go away. Like the Constitution, it acts because of the desire to protect a forest, but there's a fact that I've just expressed; there's migration from the village to the city, millions coming to work. E, if the state -- the Beskoz is a good example -- built three factories in Beskoz, then if the workers are to come and work here, there must be homes of these workers. If the state does not solve the house problem, the citizen will create his own solution; it is nature's rule. In that case, it is wrong to regard our citizens as squatters here. In our proposal for the law, we identified these citizens as rightful owners. We see that the government's proposal is defined as their rightful owner. This is an important step. These citizens are entitled. I had stated that the Constitution's rule was to encourage forest villagers. So our first move is to support the forest peasant. As a matter of fact, Law number 2924, which was released in the 1980s, is called Law on the Support of Forest Villages. It's a law in accordance with the Constitution. We're going to support the forest village. He said it's the law. This law, the bill we've discussed, lifts the Law on the Support of Forest Villagers 2924. He can take it, if he's making other arrangements instead, but when I look at the bill, I don't see any arrangements for the forest peasant, so I don't see any arrangements to encourage the forest peasant. 7 million forest villagers live in Turkey. There are 2 million 100,000 in rural villages, 4 million 900,000 in forest nearby villages, 7 million in populations. This 7 million mass of forest villagers is the poorest part of Turkey. The forest villager is the poorest part of Turkey, with a income level of 1 tenth of the income per person. So, at our first point of action, we must support the forest peasant. In large cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, in the past fifty, sixty years, the forest village has not used this land for the past fifty, sixty years; for hundreds of years, it has been using it since its ancestors, its grandfather, its property. Now, you peasant of the forest, I will sell it to you on the basis of the price of Rayic, half of it. If you say so, it would be unfair. One of the most fundamental differences with our government bill is here. We say: "These fields should be given to the forest peasant for nothing. " Don't think the forest peasant has money, precious MPs; I have just told you, they have a income of one tenth of the income per person. The income per person, according to this account -- I say from the figures of the state -- is $1.904 per year. So I'm going to sell it to a forest peasant who has 160 lira a month -- even if it's 50 percent -- on the price of Rayic. If you say so, the forest peasant can't buy it. Ten thousand liras, 20 thousand liras, 5,000 liras is a large number for the forest peasant. Take it out, give it to me. It's wrong to say that. The first error of the bill is here. The second mistake is that after describing the citizen as the rightful owner, I'm going to sell it to our citizen over 50 percent of the price of Rayic. It's wrong to say that. Now, we're predicting a sale on the property tax value. The government first thought of the price; after we insisted on it as property tax value in the election, the government changed its view, predicting that the price would be sold at a 70 per cent price in the bill it referred to parliament. Dear lawmakers, what is the reason why the government has given up the price and come to 70 per cent of the rail price? The price is wrong, says Rayic. But if the price itself is wrong, can 70 percent of it be true if it does not address the public's budget? If you're moving from the wrong place, can 70% of it be true? Then they reduced it to, I don't know, 50 percent of the People's Party of the Republic's, other opposition parties' objections to the Commission. Look, even this move shows that the point where you're moving is that the price is wrong. Why are you going down to 50 percent? If the price is too high, can a judgment be carried out that 50 percent of it will be true? If the point you're moving is wrong, whatever percentage you take, it'll lead you to the wrong spot. So what's right is the property tax value. In our bill, we predict the value of real estate tax in our proposal, and we will submit our proposal when it comes to it. There are farmlands -- not only land in major cities -- there are industrial facilities, there are places the tradesman uses on 2/B land. Some of our citizens in these places use their properties as a weekend home or as a summer house, as we have citizens who use their own needs in Beskoz, in Sandzaktepe, in Sultanbeyli, in Czechköy, in Skopjedar, in Skopjedar, in the 12 months of the year. He dwells in the strait, and dwells in the Etiş, and dwells in the Levent, and sometimes at the end of the week, he goes to his house in Beykoz, and goes to his house in Chile. It's the weekend house. We need to make a distinction between the two. That's what equality is all about. Equality is not 50 percent of the cost for everyone. There is equality in the Law on Taxes, for example. What does the IRS say? If your income is low, you pay taxes on 15 per cent, and if your income is high, you pay taxes on 35 per cent. Equality is the same rules for those in the same situation, different rules for those in different situations. So, as the Republican People's Party, we make a distinction between these two, and there are other citizens, such as hotels, there are big five-star hotels in these fields, there are big industrial facilities, there are shopping malls. Shall we now keep him as our citizen, who has a two-story, three-story house in Umraniye district? No, we have to call the other one the price. We don't drown it in red tape at all. We say we'll get a petition from the citizen, and the statement from the petition will be enough for us. In this statement, the citizen will say: I use this place for twelve months. I live here. I don't have another home in this municipality. It's enough for him to declare it. We'll trust the citizen. He's going to file this petition. We're going to sell it to the citizen who gave it to us in ten equal installments in five years over the property tax value. Dear lawmakers, we must adopt this principle. I've been in Istanbul, in almost all the counties, in all the towns where there's this 2/B problem, I've had meetings with our leaders, our citizens, and I've listened to every one of them. For example, a citizen in Beskoz Tokatköy tells me that when my father came here, this place was thorny. Now, if you call me a good price, if you call me a 50 percent price, I can't pay it. Don't you see my family's value here for 50 years? The Beykozite also says: "It's like if we get the deed here, we'll build a skyscraper here tomorrow." There's no such thing. That's the site. He can't nail nails. The guy who can't nail a nail in there. So we give him the deed, he won't be able to nail it. The problem is much bigger. That's why 50% of the cost is wrong, my friends. Sultanbeyli is no different; Sultanbeyli Fatih neighborhood, Hasanpaşa neighborhood. Hasanpaşa neighborhood, one side of the street, 2/B, one side of the forest. Let's not discriminate between the two, let's figure it all out. Now there's a settlement, a city on the edge of the forest, and there's no new invasion. Let's solve all of this, dear MPs. In this bill, there is no solution to this Sultanbeyli. There is no solution to the status issue in Beykoz. The solution to the status issue may not be the issue of this bill, but it would be unfair to our citizens if you told a citizen in the field to sell it at 50 percent of the price of a good price to a person who can't nail a nail. I don't think that's true. Now, the price figures that are going around the market have spooked the citizens. I'll give you an example of Beskoz. For example, in Tokatköy district of Beykoz, the tax value is at least $24, $35 at the most; the cost is between 70 lira and $260. So he doesn't know, of course, what number would the commissions be based on? Of course, the commissions will determine what the real situation is, what the price is. The commission doesn't do anything illegal. If it's $260, that's the rail price, half of it's 130 lira. He can't. So the 1-acre place is $130,000, 2 acres is $260,000; it can't pay. Look, one of our citizens in Beskoz told me that I get about a thousand liras a month, my income is around a thousand liras. I've been living in Beskoz for 50 years. I make about 50,000 liras in five years. Half of that, if there's a $25,000 sale price, I'll pay for it. It's a nice size. One of our citizens in Sultanbeyli Fatih neighborhood says: "I am unemployed, brother, I lost my job, if I find work in construction once in a while. I can't pay even if you call me property tax value. No doubt, whether it's a price or not, but what's objective is the property tax value. The solution to all this is not in the government's bill. We have to figure this out, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0020par0316	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0019par0318	We're being constructive about this bill. Our goal is to make this bill in accordance with the needs and budget of the people. We'll have suggestions. We have different proposals in the frame that I'm referring to. We're going to try to make the bill better, but let's assume that our proposals are not accepted, and yet we're going to support it as the Republican People's Party, which is where I'm going to put it. We're not in the way. The goal is to resolve it, but let's make a proper arrangement. The state must arrange for the citizen's budget in accordance with his finances. The first thing that needed to be done before the bill was a amendment to the 170th Amendment of the Constitution. We still recommend it, but the government did not take kindly to our offer. And we're not putting that in the way of the bill, but I'm saying it's imperative that that change be made. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0021par0322	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Rize MP Nusret Bayraktar. Here you go, Mr. Flagtar.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0022par0326	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge to the EC PARTI Group over the Development of the Forest Villagers and the Evaluation of Places Outside the Forest Borders in the Name of the Treasure and the Sales of Treasure Agriculture Land -- in short of 198 rows -- on the 2/B Bill of Law. On this occasion, I salute you all. One of the most important problems of our people is the subject of property, as mentioned by the precious Hamzacebi. We know that in areas where the property problem is not solved, public enterprises or private individuals do not have the right to build and use within legitimate and legal grounds. For the solution to the property problem, the cadastro process must be completed first. Unfortunately, until 2003, the cadastro work in Turkey had only been completed around 75%, while most of the forest cadastro had not been completed. With the laws that I'm about to mention next, with the changes in the property cadastro laws, these studies have been speeded up, but some work has been done to resolve the issue of priority and especially 2/B. The solution to this problem, which we call a social problem, is the most important issue, not for a price or for a profit, but for a solution to a social event that the public needs. It's the ability of our citizen to cultivate, live, to have areas of life that he sees as a future for his children. So what's 2/B? Before 31/12/1981, the city, which has lost its forest quality in science and science, has no forest property again, its implementation is that various agricultural areas, such as the town, the village settlements, the fields, the orchard, the orchard, the orchard, the olive grove, the peanuts, and the peanuts, should be used out of the forest for the treasured areas, such as the grasslands, the pedestrians, the barracks. This issue is defined simply because Article 2 (B) of Forest Law 6831 is mentioned in the context of Article 2 (B). As a result of the process of unplanned urbanization, rapid industrialisation and development in our country, an arrangement has been made first that allows 17/4/1970 of the Constitution of 1961 to be moved out of the jungle by the amendment with Law No. 15/10/1961 of the Law. The date was then moved to 1974, with a change in 1973, and the date of the loss of forest quality with Article 169 of the 1982 Constitution has been moved to 31/12/81. Applications related to 2/B have been implemented until 1999, after the way they were drawn in 1981. As a result of the appeal of non-controversial citizens, the cadastro was finished and the various 2/B areas that were applied were sold until 1999 and the transfer of property was granted, but the work on these issues was halted in 1999 due to various objections and some practices; in 2001, the 2/B areas were reevaluated by Article 4706, which was cancelled by the Constitutional Court in 2002. We then changed the Constitution's Article 169. In the circumstances of that day, especially the fact that most of the forest cadastro has not been built, is being pursued by the occupation of the forest and the occupation of the inhabitants, injustice is being done. These laws have not been approved. A change in the Tapu Kadastro Law, in order for these operations to be carried out during our rule of the EC PARTI, was made possible by the forest cadastro, mera cadastro and other cadastro operations, and a change was made in the Tapu Kadastro Law, along with the opposition parties of that day, in 29/1/2009, as cadastro services continued rapidly after 2006. This amendment is an additional 4th amendment to Law 5831 and Law 3402. These nine-point amendments to the Tapu Kadastro Law have been appointed to identify the rights holders on these fields, and the commission to be equipped with the mandate to work until the end of 2012 and to play a role in the resolving of conflicts. With these studies, the fact that the 2/B fields can be made by the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate at the request of the Ministry of Finance with the additional 4 clauses, that the cadastros can be made, according to the condition of actual use, that the 2/B areas are being upgraded by the Tapu Kadastro General Directorate, such as the area of water collection, the area of the coastal areas, and the development of the forest during which there is a very important expression -- the ability to make transactions such as ifz and tevhit, to be evaluated by special laws within these areas. Now, as these studies continue, let the 2/B problem be solved as a peace project, since a large portion of the cadastro operations are over. With their proposals, opposition and power, business has come to a good place. In the past period -- however -- there have been several objections to the Constitutional Court -- where there have been talks of unjust practices, such as attracting or profiting the invaders, while today the point has come to this point. Hopefully, with all our parties' contributions and support, we'll come to a happy conclusion. What does this law mean in a nutshell? Since past times -- look, this has never been said, this has never been spoken of -- the property of property, and the land that has been cancelled for various reasons and turned into 2/B -- has been given the opportunity to re-enact the land on the basis of trust in the state. I'd like to give you an example: in 1977, a large property property in İstanbul's Üskudar ATO Road. A co-op is buying the land. The purchase co-op is also applying to the municipality; it takes its development, takes its license, does its project, sets up its partners, and by 1985-1987, 4,500 partners are converted into cooperative property and distributed to its owners, its partners. As a result of the forest trial, in 1987, the deed was cancelled and converted into 2/B. Now, if the citizen's license -- trustedly -- has been revoked from all levels of the state, and the deed and property are being taken away from him, that injustice would have to be rectified. That's how the deed is granted back to those who have been rescinded. The rights holders will be given property on equal terms or will be paid in return for places that have been cancelled and remain in public service areas or other projects and cannot be returned to their rightful owners. Unfortunately, I think it's unfair that the Constitution could not give the deed to its previous rightful owners due to Articles 169 and 170, and I hope that the second amendments after these legal regulations become the key to such unresolved problems, I think we need to address them as well. The 2/B areas registered to the Treasury are envisioned to be sold at a fair price. Rayic, the price is the current rail price determined by the Commission, which has been determined on specific grounds by the Finance Ministry. I hope, hopefully, that the current track price -- since we think it hasn't been made clear yet -- will be paid in advance and in installments, with a real wish that there is a real price. In advance payments, there will also be a 20% discount, and in installment payments, without due payment. In addition, it is possible for people who have been able to pay a fee for 2/B areas and pay a fee for those who have the right to the rights to the right to pay a fee from the sale. In addition, the 2/B solution envisions a transfer of forest villagers to areas 2/A, where forest villagers have no means to develop or are forced to be removed from their territory in terms of the forest regime. With this arrangement, it is required not to be looted or reduced to forest areas as it is claimed, but to create twice as many forests as the 2/B areas sold to the right-owners, not the opposite. The Forest General Directorate is tasked with this task. The minimum 10 per cent of revenues from sales of 2/B areas are intended to be used for this purpose by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. 90 percent of revenues, however, are subject to various speculations and debates, but there is the risk of warped construction, disaster, and earthquake, a fact of our country. Given the fact that we're facing a Van earthquake, there is a need for resources, of course, to account for the consequences of the transformation of an earthquake in major cities such as Istanbul in the future. Thus, from such sales to 90 per cent of the revenue -- not necessarily -- to the extent that the Finance Ministry sees fit -- to provide funding for urban transformation projects, which we believe will provide solutions to disaster risks, earthquakes, and distorted construction. The sale of 2/B land in the watersheds of drinking and using can be equivalent to another 2/B area, which is equivalent to the cost of moving in if they don't sell the 2/B land on the maximum 300-meter band and demand the rightful owners. Those who have been renting their treasured farmland for at least 31/12/2011 for at least three years on agricultural purposes, who have been renting them for the same period of time or using them for agricultural purposes, and who have not been able to buy the land directly in order to purchase the land directly for the price of these lands within the two years of the law, are entitled to the rights of the law. There are thousands of discretionary decisions on the structures used before 31/12/2011 for animalism in places referred to as "almost" because of climate and traditionally pedestrianism and local needs. The citizen was constantly engaged in trials and was deprived of the opportunity to do traditional crosswalking and animalism here. Now, under the authority and responsibility given to the Forest General Directorate, the planning of such areas allows users to rent in certain basics and procedures. As explained in Article 9 of the bill, the cases which must be filed against people by the Treasury cannot be filed until the proceedings of the 2/B have been completed according to this law. These cases have been halted, and they will be re-established if necessary applications are not made during the times set forth by the rights holders or interested in them. Although it has lost its quality of the forest in science and science before 31/12/1981, it is completed in six months at the latest with the application of Article 2 (b) of Article 2 (b) of Law No. 6831 and Article 2 (b) of the Law under Article No. 6831. In these areas, the fourth clause of Article 2 of Law 6831 cannot be issued as a permit or ascent for forest cadastros in places where the right to altitude is established. Thus, these areas are also being resolved. The value of these places is equivalent to the value of the value of the assets they use in the area 2/B, primarily in the areas of the same province, in case they agree to pay the same amount, according to the fourth part of Article 6 of the Law. The current status of areas 2/B is 410,000 hectares. Of these, only 5.3 per cent are located in the village area, 8.514 hectares, 6,624 hectares, and 22,173 hectares. The greenhouse area is 2,365, citrus area 8,041, olive groves, pistachios, vineyards, 111,115, meadows, meadows, barracks, 35.419, so 120,521 hectares, 28.96 per cent. Other agricultural fields are 56 per cent, 230 thousand hectares, totaling 410,000. So the settled area isn't so much, as it's supposed to be. Current, current 2/B fields have a working pattern: the unregistered road, creek, property parcels are 96,071 hectares, total 2/B area 313,929 hectares. The area of Kadastro and update is 197,613, which has just been auctioned, 101,841, and the 2/B work by the Forest General Directorate continues to be 3,285 hectares, cadastro and updates, and the 2/B area is 11.189 hectares. Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, if we have to sum up lastly, we can sort out the 2/B bill of law on areas of 2/A, the assessment of areas 2/B of forest villages, which have been decided to transfer, and the closure of cases related to people in areas 2/B, the development of legal conflicts and property problems related to these areas, the development of new forest areas, the development of transformation projects on regular and planned urban urbanization, the closure of cases on 2/A and 2/B, the removal of property of property property properties, and the opportunity of the sale of farmers for the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of agriculture for the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the land for the use of the use of the land. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group and our nation, I wish this law to be a blessing to our country, to our nation. I'd like to point out that it's a phase in coming to this point with its opposition, but I'd like to point out that, especially in the Black Sea, the redwoods and chestnuts, the forest is considered an embodiment, and although there are no forests, the rights of users can be returned, the deed is to the forest, and the unrefunded forest may be returned to the rightful owners.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0023par0348	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar. On behalf of him, Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0024par0352	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to support the Developments of Forest Villagers Number 198 and to assess Places Out of Forest Borders in the Name of Treasure and to the Bill of Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands. I hereby salute your high council. This bill, known in public as 2/B, has been moved out of the forest for the sake of the cadastro for the sake of the treasure, especially with a very dense construction, to support the development of forest villagers and to assess the treasured farmland. Much of the revenue from land sales will be spent to create twice as many forest areas as sold 2/B, to develop forest villages, to create new settlements for areas within 2/A, and to move villages to those areas. Lands known as 2/B are areas of land that have lost the quality of the forest in science and science before 31/12/1981, which have been found to be useful for the use of various fields of agriculture, such as fields, vineyards, gardens, pasture, barracks, and pedestrians, and areas of the town, town and village structures that are collectively located in the area of the 6831 Forest Law (b), which have been removed from the woods for the sake of the treasure (b). The areas referred to as 2/A are primarily areas in the forest, which have no use for science or science in its preservation as a forest, but have been found to be useful in transforming it into agricultural areas, which are still found to be useful in the forest regime, in accordance with the 2 (A) of the 6831 Forest Law (a) which has been removed from the forest borders in the name of the treasure. In accordance with Article 5831, which was added to the Tapu Kadastro Law in 2009, other transactions, such as the construction of the cadastro, according to the actual use of fields 2/B, have been completed by Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate. As stated in the general grounds of the law, the 131 and 82 Constitution of 1961 has been lifted out of the forest on behalf of the treasury, which has taken 410,000 hectares across our country so far. The 190 thousand hectares of this are within the borders of our coastal provinces. With this law, there is also the opportunity to assess areas that need to be assessed in accordance with special laws such as mera, water collection basins, status sites, coastal areas, and to correct technical flaws in the upgrades and kadastro maps. The locations assigned to the Forest General Directorate to plant these sites are also included in the 2/B areas in the drinking and using water basins from the maximum level of water, as long as the law should be assessed within three months of the administration, provided it is reported to the administration by the Ministry of Finance for which it is assigned to public services or used for this purpose or for which it is designated by the movers. As a result of studies conducted by the Ministry of Finance, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, the amount of land that may be a subject to the sale is estimated at 313,000 hectares. These areas, registered to the Treasury, are in the savings of users, and are changing hands with other sales. In areas where recycling to the forest is no longer possible and most of which are used as zoning sites, there is no way for qualified municipal services to be taken away because of the lack of urbanism and planning principles. In these areas, where there are many structures that risk the lives and safety of our people in disasters, which threaten social dynamics and community order, we have to take measures to address problems as a state in which there are many problems with human and social dimensions. This arrangement is also very important for the establishment of social peace, for the resolution of legal problems that have been going on between our state and citizens over the years, and for the development of social and urban transformation. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if we look at this in the direction of preparation for urban transformation and disasters: In the case of disaster, it has been understood that some of our building stock in all areas of our major cities, particularly our disaster-threatening cities, is unindicted to earthquakes. It is imperative that the building stock be renovated and transformed. In our country, most of its land is in an earthquake belt, it is not possible to provide urban transformation without solving the property problem, making the structures in these areas quality and earthquake-proof. Where there's property problems, nobody invests big. We need to solve property problems and transform our building stock with plans to pave the way for urban transformation and make it more qualified and more catastrophic. It's our duty to solve the problems of construction, the victims of our citizens, which stem from irregular urbanization. Some of our citizens have paid for the land they acquired in non-sales, but since they don't have a legal document to prove their ownership, they don't literally call it mine, they're afraid of destruction at any moment because of the public property of their land, and in their subconscious, they see the state as a threat. With this law, our citizens, who will be able to resolve the human housing problem of its most basic needs, will have more opportunities for their children to grow up healthy and to train. The citizen who has received the deed will naturally have more property than he used to have, and the standard of living will rise. On this occasion, it will be partially fulfilled that the constitutional duty of the state's person raises the standard of living. If we look at this law in another way: it is evident that its contribution to the solution of warped urbanization, the solution to property problems, and the resilience of our building stocks to natural disasters such as earthquakes, preventing illegal construction, and opening the way for our citizens to receive much better public and social services. There is no denying the importance of developing the social and cultural infrastructure of regular urbanization to build a strong society of social aspects and social gains. The important thing here is to protect our citizens from social suffering, to solve their problems, to bring our society to a more spacious and bright future by making progress in urban, social, and cultural ways. I thank my fellow lawmakers with their contribution to this bill, my fellow lawmakers, the ministry bureaucrats, civil society organizations, our nation's 2/B, 2/A, and farmers who are operating in the fields of the treasure fields, and I wish good luck to our brothers, and I thank Mr. Minister and bureaucrats for their contribution to the bill. I wish good fortune to our people, and I salute you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0025par0370	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. On behalf of him, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Şandir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0026par0374	Thank you very much. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're talking about a really important law, a solution to an important social problem. Today we have a debate in the hope that we can find a solution together in a matter that has been saved and turned into gangrene, corrupting the reputation of the state, corrupting the sense of justice. We're solving the property problem of the land that has been moved out of the forest known as 2/B in society. This land is already being used by its owners, but now we're going to connect it to a property, to a law, to a binding law. Dear friends, we, the National Movement Party, have always supported building law to solve problems that have become a social problem, which has become an expectation in society. That is the way we support this law, and we will vote yes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a scholar, I'm a forest high engineer, I've worked in practice, I've learned his teaching and I know his law as a politician. We have friends who know better in the ruling party group, Mr. General Manager is here, and our former Undersecretary has been a deputy minister, and they know it. They know, too, but because the issue is misclaimed, which means that the Ministry of Finance needs to adopt the law directly, not the Ministry of Forestry or the Ministry of Forestry. Now, that's wrong because of misappropriation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I would also like to point out to my valued citizens who have been following us on this matter: In fact, I have no intention of preventing this law from coming out. This law must be passed, and our citizens are waiting for this law to be passed, waiting for the problems to be resolved, and I'm not saying that to stop them. But when you're building a law, you have to stay in law when you're building a law to solve problems, to meet expectations, you have to change law by staying in law. That's why this law, unfortunately, is handicapped in that sense. It's very clear, and the lawyers know it, and so do the forestmen, and the Constitution doesn't fit 170. So, if the issue is questioned on the legal plane, the application of this law is in violation of Article 170. If you go to the Constitutional Court, this law will be annulled in that sense. The law, which is set to solve a problem, if it itself is troubled, will increase the problem. It's our concern that as we solve a problem that has turned into gangrene, we find a bigger problem in front of us, we cause chaos. So, I say again, as the National Movement Party, I say again -- I told you before -- come, let's change the Constitution 170, redefine the expression "we are the founders of the law" and let the judiciary and the practice do what needs to be done according to this new definition. It's not right to expect everything from judgment, to take responsibility for coming back from the wall of judgment, it's our responsibility. Therefore, there are decisions made by the Supreme Court, these decisions are made. Attempts in this direction have previously been very clear, clear, and anti-constitutional. There is a rule against the Constitution 170. For the record, I'm not saying this as a violation of the law, and I'm making a commitment from here on behalf of my group. To solve this problem, in order to solve this social problem, let's change the Constitutional Article 170, let's define the definition of values, let's fill it out, and let's solve this problem based on it. That's the first thing I have to say. Secondly, the law must ensure justice. If the law we passed brings injustice, then we're not doing anything useful. Dear friends, it is not possible to make a common definition throughout Turkey, in what we call the incident, the cost. The generality of law, law in Turkey, usually does not provide justice, if you give the same insight to the rails around the Toros Mountains and Istanbul. At this point, 50 per cent of the specified value is sold at a price. The expression, or the expression, is evaluated at work, will bring injustice. At this point, you have to do what needs to be done. So, through the tax price, it could be the property value, or it could be the different costs, like 15 percent of the value in the forest villages, as the National Movement Party. We want 25 percent of the value detected in the sale of 2/B land used by forest-side villagers. So we can get justice. Dear friends, our concern is to achieve a new problem, what is it? The guy's got 2/B land he's been using for 40 years. He's worked hard, he's built it, he's brought it to a value. Now, you drew a ray of value, and he couldn't buy it. He couldn't afford it, he couldn't afford it. If you can't, what will you do tomorrow? So you're aware of the chaos you're going to create by selling the land where he has a home, where he supports his family? That would be wrong, dear friends. The other thing is, there's problems with the government responsible, the land-deposit cases. You gave him the deed, and then you left. This is the forest. You canceled it. That law doesn't solve this problem. We as the National Movement Party said, "Look, we have the bride's agreement, we have the power-to-responsibility, let's use the power of this to solve all the problems between the nation and the state, and let's make a liquidation law. People have been rotting in court for years. Come on, let's get a liquidation law, these deed cancellations... Another thing is the use of cadastro maps or off-cadastro land. These are problems in almost every part of our country. There are victims of the Law on Stateization 4785. You went as a state, confiscated people's property. We said, "Let's solve all these problems." Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, this is a much bigger issue because we can't afford to solve it. But if you don't solve someone's problem in the same way as solving a problem, if you don't get justice in sharing blessings and burdens, then trust in the government or justice is the foundation of property. For that, this law is disabled in that way. Another thing, dear friends, according to the Constitution 170, is that you can use these fields for the development of indoor peasants. From the sale of these lands, you can use the resources from the era to develop these villagers, and you can use them to create new forest areas, but the law that you have brought to us ignores the Constitution's ruling. What's he doing? He transfers 90% to the budget for urban transformation. Well, that won't do. So if you ignore the forest villagers who are involved in an arrangement that's been put to so much effort or so much ownership... ten percent, how many of them will go to the forest village? There are 7-8 million forest villagers, nearly 21,000 forest villages. Is it possible to say that a law that does not contribute to the solution to their problem is just?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0027par0389	Mr. Chancer, I'd like a moment of your time. Members of parliament, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who is visiting our country as an invitation from the Turkish Prime Minister, Mr. Sheikh Hasina and the delegation with him have now arrived at the Assembly. I welcome them on behalf of our great Council.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0028par0401	Mr. Guest Prime Minister, don't let him see that our seats are empty, our nation is here. We salute him, we welcome him with love, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0027par0403	Here you go, Mr. Chancer, and I've added your time.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0028par0404	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, truly power and opposition solve a social problem with a compromise that is not often seen. When we solve this problem, we have a declaration of will, so let's do it right. Let's do the minus, so there's a deposit of all these years. All these years, it's been saved, it's been expected, now it's got the will to solve it, it doesn't have the will to solve it before. Now he has the will to solve it. Let's change this in a broad way by creating a common mind, first the Constitution of 169, 170. We went through the same thing in the Constitution referendum that you've been so possessive of and boasted of. We told you then: come, put this Constitution 169, 170. When purpose and intent are different, you never listen to us, you never hear us. However, this 2/B law has only returned from the courthouse several times, and the initiative is now in effect. Now, you've come back to the House and to the people to figure this out. So, dear friends, when a law is passed, it is much more important to remain within the law of this law. You've included in this law the sale of treasured land used in agriculture. That's right, there's no such thing as a 2/B, the land that's been handed over to the treasure, the land that's out of the forest, and that's treasure land. The owner of this law should be the treasure, the minister in charge of national real estate. You also bring rules for the sale of treasury land, but the rules you've brought, believe me, will make the Turkish farmer very difficult. The government owns the great property of our land, which is being used by the nation. If you bring in the people who use these lands with a price they can't afford tomorrow, you're going to cause serious chaos. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, as the National Movement Party, I say: it's primarily production, it's the primary producer. You have to encourage, support, embrace the manufacturer. I mean, what's the point in victimizing the manufacturer because we're gonna make the government rich? What wise politics results in such a result? Now, 50 percent of the law is out of the commission, and I hear you're going to pull it up to 70 percent. Don't do this, you'll be insulting the farmer, the Turkish farmer. He's using this land with his teeth, and he's not walking away with it. You make it a law to sell property to strangers, you take it off the commission. You're gonna sell it to a stranger? So if you sell the land that the Turkish farmer uses at the same price, who's going to buy it? Dear friends, therefore, I advise you not to waste a compromise based on a need. I've talked about it on commissions, I've talked about it on both commissions. As a declaration of will, as opposition parties, here is Mr. Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0029par0412	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0028par0414	...that the Republican People's Party has given and called peace in its name, which we call "the law of peace," which is to save all problems from being hostile, from living as enemies, from living as enemies, let's make a law that will solve all problems, so that we may declare peace, the ruling group of the Republican People's Party does not judge its will correctly for me, and does not take this opportunity very well. But my concern is that there's a chance that he'll come back from the Supreme Court wall. So if you've received a guarantee from the Constitutional Court, if you've received a guarantee, then it's not very elegant to say it, let's not compromise the Constitutional Court, please accept the accusation.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0030par0415	Is that even possible?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0028par0416	I'm saying this on the responsibility of the one who knows. But despite everything, as the National Movement Party, I would like to say that we will contribute to the solution of this social problem, sir, to your delegation. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit01spe0031par0420	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Congressmans, I'm gonna take a 15-minute break.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0031par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 198 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Now, I'm going to start the question-answer process on the entire bill in 20 minutes. Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0032par0006	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, of course, this was Veysel Eroglu sitting during the Minister earlier, and I prepared my question accordingly, but it's a question about the forest again. As a result of the removal of the mines in the Kemerburgaz forests in Istanbul, large pits took place there, where the waste dump sites were selected, for a long time, and a billion-dollar amount of revenue was being provided here, and while this product was being used to reform that part of the forest, Veysel Eroglu passed a law after he became Minister, and by this law he took it from the forest and gave it to Istanbul City and brought a person named Turker Eroglu to his hometown. Now I'd like to ask: how much money have we got here? Is this Istanbul City taking the money and showing it among normal municipal revenues, or is it giving it to the ICETS in Istanbul? Of course, when he goes to the BITs, there are comfortable expenses. I'd like to get some information on that.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0033par0010	Thank you, Mr. Young. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0034par0012	Mr. President, thank you. One question is... our health minister isn't here, but I have to ask. A patient from Kozan district of Adana is on his way to İstanbul, Baltaliman bone hospital, the research hospital. They say to the patient: "We can give you the ranking 1.601. I sent patients to this Baltaliman Bone Research Hospital in the past period, and then Minister of Health Osman Durmus was in the 100th place. And despite the growth of populations, are people getting this sick, or is this Minister of Health not creating physical conditions? Is he a doctor? I'd appreciate it if he'd take a look at this. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0035par0015	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0036par0017	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the bill that we're now discussing, of course, after the law is passed, the citizen must apply and take his place at a certain time, but as far as we know, the cadastro of these areas has not been completed. How much space is there in this area that doesn't complete the cadastro? How will the application of this cadastro be evaluated in unfinished areas? How does a citizen's cadastro get these places that haven't been built? Second: Rayic, so far, there is still no concrete price in public -- which is third place on 2/B land in Turkey -- as to the price of the price. Who's going to set the price, when? When will he announce it to the citizen? Since the citizen will not have the right to object according to the law, how will the citizen resolve his problems with the cost? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0037par0021	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0038par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when this bill is passed, how much land 2/B will be put on the market in Istanbul and other major cities? Is it true that there are those who have previously served in the Justice and Development Party cabinet? Second: How right is it to value forest villages and urban areas 2/B on the same Rayic price? Can we have your opinion on this? Another question: What will be the case of the land taken from the citizen's hands while the forest cadastro is being passed over because it can't be processed? Is there a solution to that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0039par0028	Thank you, Mr. Light. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0040par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in the 12th article of the bill brought in, (3) there is a ruling that no one within 5,000 metres of the shoreline of the treasured land can be sold. We know that the most valuable treasures are the land on the coast. What's the reason for this 5,000 metre detection, is there another sale or is there another project? So there's no injustice to our citizens who use the land of treasure around here? Is that not contrary to the Constitution's principle of equality? I want an answer to that. Also, you're solving land that's 2/B as a result of the land cancellations, but you're not solving the two-by-b/b-related property cancellations. Isn't that an inequality, according to Article 10 of the Constitution? How do you intend to resolve that problem? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0041par0034	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Mr. Corporate...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0042par0036	Mr. Secretary, how is it to be a supporter of the poor forest peasant to sell the land at 50 percent of the cost? ▪ Is there a scientific definition of an uninhabitable forest area? What's the guarantee that the revenues from sales will not be used in disaster work and in open closure, especially with the result of earthquake taxes? What does Mr. Prime Minister say about the importance of a human-based town and family, and what does Hatören say about the heat poisoning of a family of five officers from the stove? Why didn't you consider the suggestions of trade unions and trade organisations on such an important matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0043par0042	Thank you, Mr. Corporate. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0044par0044	Thank you, Mr. President. Moved in the name of persons who had previously been created in the name of those who had been involved in the deed or the zoning legislation and are still registered in the deed, they remain within the woods. The forest remains within the limits of the forest. The forest remains within the holiday limits. Some of them are on trial. I only know that we have nearly 2,000 citizens who are in this position in Bursa. I wonder how long it's going to be all over Turkey. How many citizens can't solve their problems with this law? Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0043par0046	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0045par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there is a question of citizens calling from Mersin Bozyazı Tekmen. People who have built a greenhouse or two acres of land in that area, who provide a living with it, say they have heard that they will be pricing industrial electricity after the privatisation of the electricity established in the field of agriculture they use. This arrangement will victimize the citizen. Is that true? To prevent this, a study must be performed. We'd appreciate it if you'd consider it. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0046par0051	Thank you, Mr. Oz. Mr. Agha, I don't think so. Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0047par0054	Mr. President, thank you. I didn't just finish my question. Currently, there is 3,600 square metres of property in the AKP's location. Previously, a company called TEC-MISS was in business here. The forest filed a lawsuit against this place and won that this was a forest area in the case, but later, when it was built here, it walled the area around it and made it a Ankara City parking space. Why is the AKP free use of this 3,600 square feet of forest land? Would you care to comment on that? How much land will a de Tayyip Erdogan and Unakitan buy from this 2/B? I want that explained, too. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0048par0058	Thank you, Mr. Young. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0049par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank all of our political parties for their support in an area that is an important problem for our country, which is what our people expect. Hopefully, these arrangements that our people have long been waiting for will be carried out on this occasion. There's a specific question that Mr. Young is asking. Mr. Veysel had to leave today about a disaster, so hopefully he'll be back by evening. It's a very personal question, and we can only answer it in writing. The truth is, I don't have any information at this time, but I'm sure there's an explanation.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0050par0063	Of course, the concerned ministers are on the run, with no faces to come here.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0049par0064	Second, the question of Mr. Halaman was a question about the order of the hospital. We've got a lot of people going to hospitals. In fact, we see that as accessibility to health care increases, the number increases. On average, we're going to a hospital six or seven times. I mean, hundreds of millions of people go to the hospital every year, because they're going over and over, but they're all being served somehow. If there's any particular problem, if there's a troubled hospital, we can get it to our Minister of Health. Mr. Erdogan asked how much of the unfinished area, how much of the application will be evaluated? The completed area is described as 192,190 hectares as of today. The cadastro of this has been made. At the same time, our work continues. Just recently, as the Ministry of Development, we've earmarked $10 million for additional funding to our relevant institutions in order to speed things up. The incomplete, as of now, appears to be 120,000 hectares. We're trying to complete these as soon as possible, we're splitting resources. We'll complete that, hopefully, as soon as possible. On the other hand, the cost is determined by our Finance Ministry, under a certain procedure. The applications will then be reported to our citizens regarding the application single-handedly. Mr. Light, how much space will be sold in Istanbul and large cities? Are there a number of people from the AK PARTY, names, such as these, if I understand correctly? Of course, it's such a large...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0051par0068	Former cabinet member...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0049par0069	I mean, I don't really have that specific information. Of course, there could be a lot of people in this vast area, from the AK PARTY, from the MPP, from the CHP. The whole...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0052par0070	Let's give him a hint! Someone who did the Ministry of Finance!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0053par0071	Explain the names, dear. There's no need to hide it.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0049par0072	I don't know. But a lot of people have laws here. Equality in law, generality is essential in law. The general principles of the law, no matter who's taking advantage of it, are valid, but we're not making any personal arrangements here, we're making a general arrangement. I'm assuming the forest village is already determined by consideration of the properties of that area while Rayic's price is being determined to be unfair in terms of the cost of the city center. So I don't think it's unfair. I'm guessing there's already been a general miscarriage of forest villagers here. There is also a question, "Is it right to sell it to the forest village at 50 per cent? " Of course, these areas are all about the law of society, not just about people who are saving on top of it, but about the law of the whole society. We're going to have to set a balance here. On the one hand, we need to create a structure that easily protects the rights of our people on these fields, but on the other hand, we have to assess a price by considering that the entire community has a law here. We're trying to keep that balance. We allow our people who use these land to acquire these properties in certain discounts and installments under better conditions. We're really legalizing this. We're not just looking at it in terms of income. If we had just looked at it as income, we would have said Rayic would be selling over the price. We also take it as a social matter. So we make it easy with certain discounts and instalments, but of course there's a limit. In the end, as I said, this land, this land, this community, the whole community, has a right here, a law. The revenues here are not private revenues, they will eventually go into our budget, and they will be used to benefit the entire community. So from a social point of view, I think we should consider this aspect of the work. The question of Mr. Shandir is... 12/3/3... that the land of the treasure is not sold within 5,000 meters of the shoreline of the land. These places can also be judged in different ways. There is an idea. It can be used for tourism, for industry, for other purposes. Since it is a thought in the form of a figure, it has been assessed that way, it has been thought that the alternative may be because its alternative cost is high, or because it is considered to be alternative opportunities. The information our friends gave me, that's the reason for the job.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0054par0077	But it will cause unrest. So I'm telling the IRS friends that you're going to sell your neighbor's land next door, and you're not going to sell the one next to him. I mean, think of Çukurova. So that's wrong. 500 meters is the right number.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0049par0078	He'll be evaluated by our friends again. On the other hand, I believe I answered Mr. Corporate's question, that social dimension. So we're not going to use the revenues extravagantly. We're a very important disaster country, a country in great need of urban transformation, which comes mainly from here, on the other hand, to be used in the forest areas, in terms of the main objective. So, in the end, I think that somehow in the interest of our people, these revenues will turn to service. Mr. Demiröz asked a specific question about Bursa. If you'd like, in writing, we'd like them to provide a detailed piece of information to our Congressman and ask our fellow bureaucrats. Again, Mr. Oz raised a question about the price of electricity in the greenhouse area in Mersin. In fact, I think if we get some information from the Department of Energy on this, we'll respond in a healthier way. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0055par0083	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. After the question-and-answer process was completed, the talks on the entire bill were thus completed. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 12th article. On the first chapter, on behalf of the groups, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel will speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0056par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the first chapter of Law Proposal 198, and I salute you all. When Mr. Secretary answered the questions earlier, when I listened, I wondered if he was talking about this bill. In fact, the sale of these lands -- or along with this bill -- was said to be a public service. I really think that if we're talking about something in the interest of society, we need to withdraw this law because we need to rethink it by pulling this law and arguing with all the social areas, social communities, NGOs, which are really in line with the ecological system, which is really reorganizing the living spaces of the entire society, that this bill is going to affect. But we haven't seen it in this Parliament until today. AKP Power -- which is the opposition to this bill, which supports the CHP and the MHP -- how can we get more profits, how can we get a runt? An approach through it -- is a fundamental criticism, so before we do that, let's say that it's not really a very acceptable point to say that it's for society's benefit. The other one is called, "We are not for profit." On the contrary, this bill is purely for profit purposes, so let's say that the new 2/B areas, the forest areas, the areas that have lost their forest quality are actually converting to Ranta, creating new land, profiting from the sale of this... In fact, it's important who you sell it to when you sell it. It's obviously creating a new area from here. So it's pretty clear that the real goal here is profit. The other is a matter of equality in the law. There is no equality in this bill. So let's say there were more rich people thought about, who would be more affected in this area. So, this bill, as the Minister of Law stated, is not for the benefit of society, it is not for nonprofit, it is for profit, it is for profit, and it does not apply to the principle of equality in law. In that sense, of course, our proposal may be to withdraw this bill and arrange it for the greater good of society. Congressmans, do you realize that the world is in a real ecological crisis. So we can't just view the land as a lifeless being. Every procedure we do, every practice on nature, is also in a position to affect our future. In that sense, making a legal arrangement without doing so is just an expectation, so let's offer the land to sell. The approach is not acceptable. Besides, we know the approach of the AKP government, and it reacts quickly to those who criticize its own policies -- Mr. Levent Tüzel just asked -- especially to scientists. For example, it is a crime in this country to oppose the crime, to oppose the turning of forest land into a Rant area, to want democracy, to want equality, to want justice, to want education without money, to ask for education in the native language. In all of this, the AKP government is calling on the judiciary immediately. This judgment, however, is immediately in the ministry, and it does its due diligence. In fact, there's a great deal of cooperation, and we'd like to express it. Members of parliament, we would like to say once again that the problem of the 2/B issue, which is an obvious reflection of the social and ecological crisis, is not just about solving aging problems, but only about maintaining neoliberal policies. The 2/B issue is a project to provide a runt to the great builders of the forest in a legal cover, such as the one that has lost the quality of the forest in science and science. It's an attempt to legally legitimize and even reward the destruction of the forest ecosystems of classical developmentist understanding that sees nature as a meta. It is the work of those who are illegally invading forests, which are the source of life in Anatolia, with priceless ecosystems, to pat the backs of those who commit crimes in this sense. It's nothing more than punishing those who didn't occupy the forests for sticking to the law. As we all know, the forest is not just a community of trees. The forest is an ecosystem with ground plants, soil structures, insects, mushrooms, and all the flora and fauna. An ecosystem doesn't lose its quality unless it encounters a huge amount of natural destruction. When it is destroyed by human hands, as in 2/B, it is not called loss of quality, but natural destruction and slaughter, and so far, with this bill of law, the destruction of nature, the natural slaughter, is tried to legitimize. Members of parliament, this bill is not in accordance with Article 170 of the Constitution. The MP has just stated that the amendments to the bill, particularly the 2nd, 5th and 6th, again the 10th and 13th article, have shown once again what is the purpose of this bill. The amendment to Article 13 to Article 2924 of the Law on Supporting the Developments of Forest Villagers has been lifted from effect. This thus eliminates a law that used to take at least certain measures. Again, Article 2 (f) of this bill is counted among areas where land 2/B will be implemented by slums or urban transformation projects. Moreover, those who can do these projects are considered by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, as well as by TOKI and other cities concerned. The political power thus opens up about 3 million acres of land, 2/B land, which has not yet been built and has not yet been used for agricultural purposes. In fact, that's the key, he's designing 2/B as a new urban transformation field. Again, in the 6th article, the 1st article of the 6th article, the conditions to apply during the period of application, not object to the price of management, not to sue the people who may be considered entitled to buy 2/B land before 31/12/2011, or who are shown to own the property on it. So, in this case, the power will sell the land to those who want it. In this regard, there is no such thing as equality in law, there is no such thing as equality in law, especially when it comes to informing its supporters on time, applying for and selling agricultural land to its own fans. This is against the 10th Amendment of the Constitution, my dear friends. In the 10th article of the Constitution, the state's bodies and administrative authorities must act in accordance with the principle of equality in all their transactions. Against all actions and procedures of Article 125, the rule of law is open. These, of course, are specially selected substances. So we'd like to explain to you why we object to this bill: Again, according to Article 10 (B), revenues from the sale of 2/B land will be determined by the Council of Ministers, and a part that will not exceed 90 per cent of the overall budget (B) will be transferred as private income and the rest as income. In exchange for the amount of private income, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism budget can provide special funding for the transformation of disaster-threatening areas. The part of the income transfer is for the nationalisation of forest villagers, the rehabilitation and development of areas 2/A, the development of forest villagers, 2/A, 2/B, the resolving of unproductive forest areas at least 2/B, and the construction of new forests. In general, the grant will be prepared. This issue also represents a serious problem. Again, this is an arrangement contrary to Article 170 of the Constitution. So we'd like to get your attention. He just said, "Let's change the 170th article of the Constitution. The Constitution protects the ecology, not the 170th article of the Constitution. Let's change it in part, so let's go into an application that won't allow the loot to exist, or we won't really have any living spaces left. Members of parliament want to make an arrangement for political power 2/B to sell its land, as well as its treasured farmlands, so that it can provide a resource that it can use to close the current deficit. Political power is trying to mislead the public with new forest ecosystems and so on, and to make clear regulations contrary to Articles 169 and 170. According to the readings, only 4.7 per cent of 470,000 hectares of 2/B land were made, and 33.2 per cent of it is used for agricultural purposes. The main purpose of political power is to sell these lands, so who will he sell them to? Of course, he'll sell it to his own followers first. Congressmans, once again, I would like to say that most of the words used by the AKP's Powers... are actually being applied to the harm of more communities under the parts expressed as a truly good transformation in society or in society.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0057par0109	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0056par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. So, in fact, society is misinformation, so even though it's expressed as a better arrangement, as a matter of fact, this bill is disrupting our ecosystem, disrupting the ecological balance, opening new Rant fields. The political power is opening up new ground spaces in its own environment, so come to us and join us. Once again, we say, "Come, withdraw this bill." Let's organize it in a way that might actually benefit the community, but we're not against it, but you don't have to expect us to agree to an arrangement that will open new ground spaces, disrupt the ecosystem, affect our future. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0058par0115	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. Antalya MP Tunca Tuskayay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tuskaya.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0059par0119	Mr. President, members of parliament, I stand before you to announce the views of the National Movement Party on the first chapter of the 1st legislature of Law Bill 198, which is currently being discussed in the General Assembly. As I begin my words, I salute you all. Before we enter into our assessments of the matter, I would like to make one particular point to you. I believe that during the time of our Minister of the Forest, this is the most important law to come before the House, but I'm sorry, I don't think it's elegant for him not to be here. The purpose of Bill 198 is listed in Article 1. The assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the treasure, the creation of new forest areas, the relocation of forest villagers, the support of development, the determination of procedures and foundations for the sale of treasured farmland. As a result, it is clear that these purposes are to provide income to the treasure and to open the way for transfer to certain parts of Turkey when it is considered to be a common solution to the problem, which is often called the problem of ί2/B) in Turkey, but is carefully examined by the approach and the provisions that are in control of the entire law. The law does not stipulate that the problems of forest villagers, small farmers who farm 2/B and treasure fields, the problems of our citizens living in slums in the city, districts and cities, can be dealt with sincerely. So the problem of 2/B is widely felt in the Kepez district of Antalya province, the Duralites, Ünsal, Avni Tolunay, Cultural neighborhoods, citizens in Aksu district, citizens in the village of Beltupınar, citizens in the village of Alanya Değirndere and Elikesik, and other districts of the districts and districts, it seems that the AKP's power does not much care. The purpose of the law is prioritized to the assessment of land that has been removed from the forest limits and providing income for the treasure. ▪ The creation of new forest areas, relocation, development, and support of the forest villagers -- it seems that these statements are all added to the law as a means of saving the zewahir. In order to confirm this, it is wise to mention the second joke of the 10th article of the law. The assessment of the second joke allows that 90 percent of the income can be used for other purposes with the application of this law. So, then, it's not the goal of solving the problems and problems of the forest peasant with the income that will be obtained from this law. Article 2 of the bill is divided into definitions. The (1) (a) and (b)bents of this article have a statement: "In the name of the treasure there are places to be taken out of the forest, and there are places to be taken out of the forest. We need to focus on the expression "places to subtract" because there's a significant difference between 2/A land and 2/B in the history of getting out of the woods. Areas under 2/A can always be moved out of the forest when conditions permit. There is no need for the word to be taken out of this bell. The issue is not considered to be a big, heavy problem at the moment. According to Article 2/A, there is not a single land that has been removed from the area of the forest, according to Law 1774, 2896 and 3302, in the district of Antalya, where this problem is most heavily felt, the number of land in Turkey is extraordinarily limited, but there are areas in which the 2/B area is defined by its definition of 2/B is now under law that have lost its forest quality in terms of science and science and science, in the same way, and in terms of science and science before 1981, and in terms of science and science and science. In this bentte, the expression "places to be removed" indicates that in the future, the government wants to open a door to a runt that will create spaces 2/B that will lead to the plundering of the forests. This statement contradicts the arrangement in Article 1 of the Law that regulates the purpose of the law. Also in this chapter, the definition of the second clause (1) (f) area (project area) in the frame of the project, and the conclusions related to this later concept, show that the AKP ruling -- as we put it above -- sees this law as a means of routing. We, the National Movement Party, are not against the facility of the project site, but we can't possibly accept the use of it as a hub. When the 8th article is discussed together, it is understood that the AKP Powers has made its goal to provide the 2/B zones in the cities to the TOKI, to provide the TOKI, and to assist in its work contractors, because the project is primarily given to TOKI. Even if the Metropolitan or other municipalities apply for a project field ad, if the TOKI applied with this application, the priority is the TOKI. Which means that there is no opportunity for municipalities here either. In addition, the implementation of the project area on 2/B is openly in violation of the Constitution's 169th and 170th Articles. The second joke of Article 2 of this chapter (1) (g) refers to legislation that will be considered in determining the price of the track. We will try to contribute with the motion, while the matter related to the price is discussed in the future, but in the 6th (7) joke of the 6th article (7) the list of updates held prior to the adoption of this law or the sales of the remaining subsidiaries is being carried out by rail costs, which have been determined since 1/5/2010. First, the price is determined entirely by the administration, and it is not subject to the opinions of citizens, occupational organisations, NGOs in any way. This attitude is not democratic. When it comes to profiting from the back of a citizen, the government rescinds the rhetoric of a forward democracy. In addition, the cost will be limited, and high for our citizens in economic distress. In this regard, all of us, especially Antalya, Mugla, Mersin, are heavily reacting in our provinces. Small farmer, the price must not be the same for places where the resources are limited and large numbers are at stake. As the National Movement Party (6), we will again have a motion on this matter. In addition to the 36th and 125th amendments of the Constitution, many jokes and amendments of the bill are not granted the right to appeal to the price. There is no objection to the price. The provision clearly contradicts the general admissions of the Constitution in 11, 13, 14, and especially the 36th and 125th Articles of the Constitution. As a result, I'd like to say that as the National Movement Party, we are sincerely in favor of solving the problem 2/B, which has become such a common problem, and we're taking a proper approach to the law. But what we're trying to explain here is that this law has to be a law in accordance with the law, a law in accordance with the law. An arrangement containing articles clearly contrary to the provisions of the Constitution will later lead to chaos. Moreover, it is not possible for us to find a genuine approach from the past to the problem 2/B. This is the case: 8,000 cases have been filed in Antalya on the 2/B estates, on the cancellations of the deed, on the orders of the former Minister of Finance. These cases have been filed, and the AKP MPs ahead of the election will go to those citizens and vote for us, and we will solve this problem of yours. This has nothing to do with intimacy.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0060par0132	But the problem isn't solved.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0059par0133	The settlement, development of the forest village, the creation of new forest areas, the solution to the problem of the large population of citizens' 2/B and Treasury lands, is set up as a demonstration of the law for us. It's a law without solving the problem. This law must be dealt with seriously and assessed and corrected.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0061par0135	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0059par0137	Some of the regulations in the whole of the law and in this department appear to be in direct violation of the Constitution. First, a constitutional amendment would be brought here, since all parties were in agreement. With 169 and 170, there would be an arrangement that would not allow looting of forests, but would contribute to the solution of this problem, and the law could be brought from behind. That's not a problem. All opposition parties, along with you, support this law. In fact, if you were more sincere, you would have put a clause with 26 articles in the referendum on September 12, 2010, and you would have solved the problem at the root. So we don't see much goodwill here. Besides, if this law goes to the Supreme Court in any way, there's nothing left of it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0062par0141	Thank you, Mr. Tuskaya. Karabük MP Osman Coffeeci on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Coffeeman.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0063par0145	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to support the development of the forest villagers and to assess the grounds outside the forest borders in the name of the Treasury and to discuss the sale of the treasure's agricultural land, the first chapter of the law bill. I salute the High Council. As someone who's worked in the kitchen on this subject for years, I want to express my great satisfaction that this law is being held today in the High Council. Precious lawmakers have reduced the world's forest area to 30 per cent from 70 per cent of the world's fast population growth, economic and social developments. We also know that some 70 per cent of Asia Minor is forest, but 27 per cent are forest today. The main reason for forest reductions in the world is these economic and social development processes. Although many international processes have been launched in the world against this, unfortunately, deforestation cannot be stopped, and ten to 13 million hectares of forest continue to disappear every year around the world. Many countries in the world are still going through this process. In our country, the process of deforestation has been halted, and our country has been one of the few countries in the world to increase forest existence. Congressmans, the main cause of forest reductions is human. Most of all, people interfered with the forests to gain agriculture and to settle down. In some countries it has been supported and helpless as a state policy. In our country, there have been some irregular interventions to the forests since the pre-Republic era. Today, the first Law of Forest 3116 in the year 1937, as well as the Constitution of 61 and 82, was a result of these processes and the reality of our country. There is no criminal in these processes, and the culprit must not be sought out. However, there are thousands of hectares of treasured land on behalf of the treasure, and thousands of citizens who have been using these land for years have had social and legal problems that are facing immediate solutions. This problem, which has been gangrene in our country for years, must be resolved immediately, and the state and nation must make peace. This law will make peace with the state by solving this problem. It will be given to Parliament to solve this, God willing. Dear lawmakers, 2/B is defined as 2/B, which is the most spoken in politics and politics among our people, as part of Article 2 (B) of the Law of the Forest, 6831. The first constitutional regulation on 2/B (B) began with the amendment of Article 131 (131) of the 61 Constitution in 1970. In this parallel, Article 2 of Forest Law No. 6831 was changed, and before 15/10/1961, the decree was passed that places that had lost the body of the forest be removed from the forest. For the first time, there was an exception in the Constitution -- an exception in the Constitution -- that the forest boundaries could not be narrowed down by the 61 Constitution. Since there were no 2/B attempts to remove it from the forest border between 73 and 83, it was also part of the law, as well as the area of Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law at the time, since it was made according to Article 2 of the Law of the Forest. Finally, in the 82 Constitution, with this process retreated for another 20 years, 31/12/1981, where the previous forests had lost its quality were always removed out of the forest, but with an exception to the 82 Constitution, these exceptions would also be removed out of the jungle. The most important difference between the 61 Constitution and the 82 Constitution is that the unqualified areas have been removed from the forest borders with the 82 Constitution. The Law of Forest 6831, 2/A, 2/B, has been established for areas that have been removed from the forest limits without losing quality. Law number 2924 was issued and implemented in 1984 because of the assessment of these areas and the law of the dedication to the forest villagers. With this Law, these places were assigned to the Ministry of Forestry, but this Law was cancelled by the Constitutional Court.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0064par0155	According to internality...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0063par0156	Yes, in 1995, the Law was reorganised by the Constitutional Court, reorganised by the Constitutional Court, and reorganised by the idea of extradition. Between 1995 and 2000, the practice had been sold to users of 6,700 hectares of 2/B area, but all the work had been halted by the Finance Ministry, who changed the Law (the Law) on the transfers of treasure number 4706, claiming that the 2/B fields were above theirs, and that the Constitutional Court had cancelled it in 2002. There have been two amendments between 2003 and 2004 to find a constitutional solution to this issue, and the process has been blocked by the extradition of this to the President. As a result, there's been a legal gap in the matter, and it's still going on. This law will fill this loophole and solve this problem that has been gangrene for thirty, forty years.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0065par0158	The constitutional gap isn't filling up.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0063par0159	Yeah... Congressmans, the most asked question on this issue will be when will the application 2/B be finished? Yes, when the 2/B application is finished with the forest cadastro, the 2/B application will end. Of course, a second question follows: How is the forest cadastro process? Yes, after the first forest law of the republic was issued in 1937, the Law 3116 had been completed in five years, but unfortunately when we arrived in 2002, the forest body had been completed in 10 million hectares of our country. 4 million were registered. For many years, the work of the deed and the forest cadastro separately has led many courts to follow one another, when institutions don't recognize each other's cadastros. In the process, thousands of citizens have been court-martialed, some cases have been taken to the European Court of Human Rights, and there are still thousands of cases going on today. Due to all these negativitys, the two-headed cadastro of the AK PARTY was terminated, and efforts to make the cadastro one-handed and end it as soon as possible. From where we are today, 8.4 million hectares of cadastros have been made in nine years and are all registered and brought to 95 percent of the forest cadastro. Hopefully, in a few years, the cadastro will be over and 2/B will be history. Members of parliament, our area 2/B is 410,000 hectares in this framework, which is taken out of the woods by 2/B. They include citrus, banana gardens, mass settlements, public institutional buildings. Although many of these places have been used as settlements, unfortunately, no zoning legislation has been implemented around here. In our country, our forests are protected and operated by world standards in the balance of protection and use. During these activities, our forest peasant has always been our top priority. For example, in 2002, the source transferred to the forest villager was 253 million liras, while in 2011 it increased by 4 times to 1.1 billion Turkish liras. There have been significant reductions in forest crime. In the past, the average crime of the year was in the 50,000s, while today the average forest crime of the year was reduced to 12,000. In this, the economic and social developments in our country, the effective measures taken, the growing love of the forest in our nation. The end of the cadastro will greatly reduce forest crime. Congressmans, unfortunately, there are those in our country who think of this law as a forest sweep, as well as those who claim that our forests are diminishing rapidly. This is certainly not true, the forest presence in our country is increasing day by day.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0066par0166	Please complete your statement.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0063par0167	The fact that the world sees, or Turkey, is increasing the presence of the forest. We must accept the truth and applaud our beloved nation and the Turkish forest service. See, in 1973-2000, the area was 2 percent of the forest area with 2/B on the edge of the forest, and in this process, our forest area increased by 7 percent. Thus, the forests in Turkey are not diminishing, our forest area is increasing. With this law, those who have earned forest quality again, those who have earned forest quality, even though they are 2/B, are also taken back by this law. In Istanbul alone, 1,100 hectares will be taken back. Article 4 of this law provides for the development and transport of our undeveloped forest villages to more conditions. Again, the revenues from the sale of this law will be used to boost our forest existence, to build and reform our forest villages. In some areas, non-existent areas will be sold in a tender manner, and no one will be allowed to receive any kind of rent from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He believes that this law will bring greater services to our forest organization than yesterday, to our country's forestry, to our forest village's prosperity, to all who have done so, and to all who have done so, to our country and our nation, and to our nation, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0067par0174	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Vahab chooses. I'll give you 15 minutes since you have a request on your behalf. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0068par0179	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, I have made a promise on Bill 198. It's important, it's a matter of clarity, the forests are important to all of us, but our Minister of Forests and Water hasn't shown up here yet -- something that society cares about so much -- it's actually a little disrespectful to society. Why is this happening? See, the National Movement Party has proposed a law on this issue, the Republican People's Party has proposed a law and the ruling party has drafted a bill. These have been discussed in the commissions, discussed in the lower commission, discussed in the upper commission, and we're finally bringing a bill here with a compromise. Now, when there's a compromise, the seriousness goes away, and the seats are obvious, and I'm saying it for the power lines, and I'm saying it for the opposition lines, and I'm saying it for the Minister. Perhaps our citizens, especially in the Mediterranean region, in the Aegean region, in the Marmara region, in the mountains, or farmers, are watching us now, many of our citizens, saying, "How are they going to save money for us, will they be good for us?" Now, we're discussing this, but like I said, we don't have Mr. Secretary, so hopefully they'll be here soon, and they'll be contributing to the work. I just told you, we have citizens who are concerned about this, we have environmentalists, we've had the opportunity to listen to them during commission work, it's natural. I'm asking the lawmakers: are there any lawmakers who might say, "The forest is worthless. " We all know the forests are valuable, we know that they contribute substantially to ecological balance, and we know that they contribute very important scientific contributions to environmental health, community health, fauna, flora. So, look, you have to look at it from two angles here: one, you have to look at it from the point of view of people who are environmentally sensitive, you have to look at it from a citizen's point of view. On the other hand, especially in this bill, we need to look at areas 2/B that are actually the basis of this law, in terms of our citizens who have done agricultural production, who have made or built a house, who have built a house, who have built a business, built a factory. He's been having trouble with management for years, court-martialed, conflicted. We need to figure this out somehow. We're not supposed to miss the cantar's mace here. Now, as some NGOs give their opinion, they say: "I wonder if the ruling party is opening a door to some people, creating land, creating land for TOKI, or creating plots for subcontracted contractors?" Now, there are such concerns. Now, therefore, we need to be sensitive when we make this arrangement. In the end, we support the bill as opposition. That's the kind of trouble we're facing. For him, I think we should approach this matter with much more precision than the ruling party. Now, my dear friends, we are not a land that is rich in the forest. Our Congressman just tried to explain here, he was the Director General of the Forest, an expert on the subject in the previous period. We're behind the world averages, so the world has 30 percent forest space, while we, Turkey, have 27 percent forest space. That means we have to protect him. According to the Constitution's ruling, so does the Constitution, according to 169. The government will protect the forest, the Supreme Court will. Now, you're looking at the vast majority of the existing forest areas are inefficient forests. There's a shortage of wood fortunes. These things need to be developed, developed, built, reformed, ihya. We have a serious mission like this. Why am I telling you this? We'll get to these points in a moment. So we're all going to see where the income comes from this application, and it's not spent on the issues I'm talking about. I mean, we sell the woods, we take the money, we send it away. We're not saving on forests, or spending that money on forest development, or the development of forest villagers, which is the basis of the law. Where do we send 90 percent of the money? The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. We'll get back to that in a little while. Now, one of the basic regulations of the law is that there are a few issues, there are 2/B issues, there are support for the development of forest villagers, there are 2/A issues, and there are sales of treasured farmlands, but the main thing here is, 2/B, the main reason why this bill came into this form is because the areas of 2/B were taken out of the forest, the property for the treasure, and the evaluation of these are sold primarily to the rightful owners. Who's on these fields? There are poor forest villagers on these fields, one decheque, two decrepits. The lawmakers from the busy areas of the forest villagers know. These people are the poorest in social classes. Turkey has 7 million forest villagers. Their annual gains are in very small amounts, and they have opened up the forest area in time, and I have to invade it, or I'll seize it, and there's no purpose for me to gain unfairly on the property of the state, the man is poor, the poorest part of the community. Now, we'll give these areas to the forest peasant. There's a farmer, he's making agricultural production on these fields, we'll sell it to them. There have been intensive migrations for the past 30, 40 years, migrations from rural areas to metropolitan areas, land problems there. Thirty years ago, he arrived, forty years ago, to Mersin, Antalya, Istanbul; he went and found him a 50 square metre area, a 100 square metre area, and built a slum on it, and we will now sell to them the areas above them. He built a factory, built a business, built a villa for his amusement, built a luxury villa. Now, there's different social classes, there's rich classes, there's business -- on these areas that have been factoryed -- and then there's the poorest part of society, the forest peasant and the farmer. Now, in this bill, these social classes have not been categorized, and he said that even though they are rich or poor, even if they own the banana greenhouse in Mersin's Anamur, even though they own the villa in Sarıyer, even though they own the villa in Istanbul, their property managers, the bookkeepings will form a commission, the rail price will be set -- with the proposals, which the opposition supports -- they will own 50 percent of these property, so the price of the sale price is down to 50 percent of the price -- if everyone pays the price -- we will make an extra 20 per cent discount to those who pay for it. Now, for once, that's not fair, that's illegal. As Mr. Şandir said, is this a liquidation law, as Mr. Hamzacebi said, or is Turkey's current issue in your head, Turkey needs money, Turkey needs money in its vault... before Mr. Osman Pepe was saying, if we sold the dead land, it would be $15 billion? Now, is the government looking to get some income to solve their problems by selling these areas? So is it social or financial? Now, we have to be honest about this. That was discussed in the commission. Look, we offered him the law on this, we brought him in, we said: let's categorize these social classes. Let's give some for free, especially to the forest villagers, to our agricultural farmers or poor people, but let's give our income-level people property tax value; let's give them to the rich people who have built villas and luxury villas. If there were such an arrangement, I think we would have made a fairer arrangement if the commission had looked at our proposals. Now, as the Republican People's Party before the election, we put this issue in our election declaration, and we looked at it as a peace project. We've also shown some sensitivity in bringing this matter up. I just told you, we don't want to upset the environmentally sensitive, but we need to sort of eliminate their anxiety. And one of the most important things is that our arrangement is not supposed to be illegal. See, the ruling lawmakers here also agree on this issue: there are concerns. The provisions we make may constitute a violation of the Constitution. We're sincere about this, as the Republican People's Party, we're not going to make this difficult, we're not going to interfere in this matter, but there are NGOs, there are environmental organizations on this issue; they'll go to the prosecution, and they'll go to the Constitutional Court at the next stage. We are concerned that these regulations may be in violation of the 169, 170th Articles, particularly the protection of the forests of the Constitution, including the protection of the forest villagers, and we want to warn the Grand Assembly once again, we want to warn all groups. Well, there's a new Constitutional study going on, if necessary, but maybe we don't have time to wait there for the solution, specifically, if the groups agree on this issue, there might be an arrangement in the Constitution. My dear friends, interestingly, a 24-point package was voted in the Constitutional Amendment on September 2010. Now, I'm not here to test the sincerity of power at this time, but I've asked the Minister in the commission's studies: yet, two years ago, such an arrangement has been made, a constitutional amendment has been made, and if you're sincere, why haven't you gone to a variety of relevant substances that we find concerned about the forests? So why didn't you put the arrangements for those relevant materials in that package? We discussed it in the Council of Ministers, it's true, it's true, Mr. Prime Minister. We said, "Let the public not be confused." We're making a change in the framework of basic rights and freedoms, or we're making a change in the judiciary, and we didn't bring this matter into the package to confuse the public." I don't think it's believable, or I don't think it's a good idea, so he's lying to the minister from here. I don't mean it, I certainly don't have an assessment of it, but it's completely wrong as an understanding. As I said today, if that day had been resolved at the root, some legal difficulties had been resolved, this arrangement would have been much more comfortable today. And when this arrangement left Parliament tomorrow, we wouldn't have to worry about whether the Constitutional Court would screw it up or not. My dear friends, with this arrangement now -- if the minister comes here, our friends will ask -- how much income is expected in the question section? $5 billion, $10 billion, $15 billion, $20 billion? These are important numbers, important money. We're talking about the sale of 410,000 hectares 2/B. Now, a large part of the income that will be achieved by this arrangement, up to 90 percent -- we give the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism -- in the bill -- to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, to be given the order; to convert disaster-threatening areas, to turn urban slums -- yes, one of the main issues of Turkey -- there are 2/B areas such as this; there are areas of Antalya, Kepez Τi, Sultanbeyli. You're looking at really warped urbanization. He built a citizen's house on one side of the street, on the other side, no infrastructure, no roads, no superstructure, nothing. Of course, there should be some project areas here, some project applications. Infrastructure work, superstructure work, and they need money. Now, as a result of this practice, of course, we have to save resources here, but we're taking the lion's share, the lion's share, and we're spending the lion's share on these issues. Basically, we're selling forest areas, 410,000 hectares of forest areas are down. From here, we allocate our income to another application to solve another problem in Turkey. I'll say it over and over again, it's wrong. When it comes time for negotiations on this clause, we will also submit the Republican People's Party's motions on this matter to the House's discretion. Look, about 10 percent is not enough money for the development of forest villagers, the creation of new forest areas, or the rehabilitation of forest areas with low efficiency, the care, the development. That's why we want him to turn around. I hope that our motion to make in this direction will be accepted by the High Assembly and we'll be back from that wrong.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0069par0201	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0068par0203	My dear friends, one of the most important issues: the price is very high by society, by our citizens who are having problems with it. We're getting e-mails from our citizens, faxes, reactions. At these costs, they're worried that they won't be able to own the 2/B spaces, not the real owners, but the Rant owners, have complaints. We're going to have another motion on this matter as the Republican People's Party. And we'd like the High Council to review it again. Yes, we support that law. It has its flaws, its breaches, its technicalities, we will support our views on this with motions, and we will inform the High Council on how to correct the places we see missing. I wish you all the best in this law.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0070par0207	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Izmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu in his name. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0071par0211	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the first part of the proposed bill. First of all, I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, even though a small part of its motive is stated that our forestry peasants will be improved, it is clear that those who have drawn up this bill with a very narrow view of the 170th article of the Constitution are unaware of the social and economic situation within our forest villagers. Because it's a bill that is largely in the approach of bringing revenue to the treasury, which is more of a monetary front; unfortunately, its social side, its development direction, is a bill that is very, very backward. This bill states that the rail price will be sold at 50 per cent if no change is brought. It may be a reasonable ratio in cities, but for our forest villagers, it's a sad picture. In this arrangement, I have just stated that the forest is said to be the development of our villagers. However, the fact that 90 per cent of the future revenues under this bill will be transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, and that money will be used for urban transformation or Rant -- the fact that the remaining small percentage, or 10 per cent of it, will be given to our forest village villager -- is a disqualification of this development thesis and its claim. Some of our country's population lives in or next door to about 1 tenth of them in forest villages. In this regard, the lives, standards of life, and economic conditions of these people, who live in our forests, should first be considered. In terms of income per person, these are the lowest areas. In general, it's about $300, but in most places it's $50, and under it lives on income, our peasants here. So the unemployment rate is high, they're living in other social and economic difficulties, and our villagers here are living on forest work. This kind of workmanship is temporary, seasonal. For the greater part of the year, our people who live here are still trying to make a living, with nothing left in their hands, in a state of debacle, or in serious anxiety about future. These places are generally steep as settlements, very far away from urban settlements, so they're messy, and the villagers who live here still don't benefit from opportunities such as education and health and communication and transportation. It looks like we're going to take this negative and unintended painting from our forests and from our villagers who've been living in the woods for years, and we're going to take it away from them with this bill. Of course, it's due to the amount of land that's worth a lot of money, and our forest villagers will unfortunately have handed over the land that they're making a living on to someone else. Dear MPs, this is true not only in Turkey's specific geography, but also in İzmir. Look, Izmirin is covered by Bornova, Kemalpaşa, Menderes, Bergama, Paying, Tire, even Urla, Seferihisar, Çeşme, and 2/B, which includes about 12,000 hectares in the Cheşme Peninsula, where there are many troubled, serious problems, land disputes behind the legal disputes. Our peasants here are also in debt to banks for mortgages because they can't pay the high price of power, so they're facing a serious problem. All of this data shows that our forests have been protected, developed, or even larger...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0072par0217	Please complete your statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0071par0219	I am, Mr. President. ...the expansion and expansion of our forests and forest villagers' social, economic problems can't be achieved by 10 per cent of this bill, I'm afraid. We say that while the road is near, while this bill is still being discussed, with the necessary motions to make arrangements at these rates, and that the proportions that our forest villager wants and deserves have been given in some way. I wish this bill to be a blessing again, and I salute the High General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0073par0223	Thank you, Mr. Godkulu. Congressmans, we're now moving on to the QA section. We're 15 minutes out. Mr. Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0074par0226	Mr. President, thank you. Now, across Turkey, of course, there's a lot of income to be made by this law. This income, unfortunately, according to information that we've received before, with those reasons in the law for the transformation of areas that are at the risk of disaster... unfortunately, the law 2/B in returning to the TOKI Law. However, since the revenues from these 2/Bs were not transferred to the Forest General Directorate or the Ministry of Forestry, the Forest General Directorate also makes dense forest cuts to meet the need for resources. Our province produces 90 per cent of the pine honey in Turkey. As a result, dense forest areas have troubled our beekeepers and the production of pine honey that we have a say in the entire world. Therefore, without any further discussion of this law, there is absolutely no doubt that the income from this law will be made to increase the resources that will be reserved for the Director General of Forestry, the Ministry of Forestry...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0075par0230	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Demirel...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0076par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk to you about something else. Our friend, a pharmacist from the medical staff who was forced to be appointed under Code 663, ended his life by committing suicide today. I want to tell you which institution Ms. Ayşe Okman, the pharmacist, was working at: Hani, a pharmacist who worked at the Hefzisih, the first health minister of the Republic of Turkey to be named after universities while in office, Mr. Refik Saydam. So, in regard to these mandatory appointments, we invite Mr. Health Minister to reconsider his savings as all health staff and nationalist Action Party, and we invite him to be responsible.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0075par0234	Thank you, Mr. Ironel. Mr. Light? No. Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0077par0237	Thank you, sir. Mr. Secretary, do you intend to give the municipalities a piece of the sale of the treasury land? There's no such thing in this law. I'd appreciate it if you'd answer that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0078par0240	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0079par0242	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to know from the Minister, what's the 2/B land that comes up with this law? Can 2/B land sales be explained to whom, which municipalities, which users, how much to be given? Besides, is a work that creates any employment for forest villages going to be done with the money taken after that law? Another question is, how much land will be treed for 2012? How long will the wooding area in the slap county be for 2012? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0080par0248	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0081par0250	Thank you, Mr. President. Our fellow speakers have just said that most of the places used by our poor villagers, which are part of 2/B, where 50 per cent of the rail price will be taken have no economic value due to current agricultural policies, which have no economic value. I don't think it's fair that the government should give the citizens a reward for farming there, but they get 50 percent of the money from here. With commissions to be set up on this issue, such places should be found, and they should be distributed to forest villagers for free. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0082par0254	Thank you, Mr. Köse. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0083par0256	Mr. President, thank you. I'm asking a question: For many years, it's the policy of politicians, politicians, administrators, the law of solving the problem that comes from these problems; it's been through profiling behaviors for many years. I say this law, as if it's real estate law, I'll give it to the person who has the money at a reasonable price; the deed, the treasure, it's not a problem. What if they don't give it over real estate value if it's not so much a problem, Mr. Minister? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0084par0260	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Irony...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0085par0262	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister, how many of the 410,000 hectares of 2/B land are built, how many percent are used for agricultural purposes, and how many percent are not used for any purpose? Do you have any research on such numbers or such? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0086par0265	Thank you, Mr. Irony. Mr. Chosen...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0087par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. As a result of the transformation of the Ministry of Environment and Forestry into the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks and the establishment of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, account experts had set up a deficit of around $7m on various funds from the Ministry during the process of the account cycles between the two ministries. In ten years, it has been revealed that the three counters embezzled 7 million TL, and the prosecutor's office employee launched an investigation into the counter of three. For ten years, two inspectors had been assigned to investigate the scandal, which had not been noticed in internal controls, including the Court's audit, under instructions from Minister of Forest and Water Affairs Eroglu. What has been the result of this investigation? My second question: how many HES projects are still under regulations published by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and cancelled by the State? How many workers do you estimate are working on these constructions? How much does investment cost? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0088par0271	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0089par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, there is a statement in the third joke of the 12th article, in which the bill is agreed by the commission, in which you have discussed it, that those who have been assigned to the public service or used for this purpose are within the limits of the municipality and the mujavir area, which are outside the municipality and the area of the mujavir area, but are divided into public institution, institutions. So the municipal areas are not going to sell any of the treasured farmland that's left in the mujavir area, and that's what this stuff is doing. Now, there are towns, towns, towns all over Çukurova. These towns are already intertwined with farmland. Thus, it will prevent the sale of the first-class farmland there, even land that has been decided to be preserved as agricultural land. For example, there are many such lands in my constituency, in Osmaniye, in Yukkale. I'm sure there are many such lands in Ceyhan, in Kozan, in Adana. I mean, isn't that a little inconsistencies about the sale, the purpose, the arrangement? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0090par0277	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0091par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a criticism from Mr. Erdogan of the use of revenues to be made by this law on urban transformation, on the subject of disaster, or rather that there is not enough resources left to the forests. Of course, it is clear here that the law will create twice as much forest space as the transfer of 2/B. So there's a physical target here, and there's going to be twice as many forests. It is also clear that supports for the development of forest villagers will be provided both in the form of credit and in the form of cash. In the general sense, as it has just been highlighted in the talks, we are really interested in treeing, increasing our forest areas, and we will continue to do so. But on the other hand, the disaster incident is a fact of Turkey. We have a housing stock of 20 million, and 15 million of it is seriously re-established before the final earthquake regulations. The review of this stock, the improvement, is an event in the interest of the whole community, in our general interest. Of course, we care about saving our cities from warped construction, for the safety of our people's lives and possessions. Hopefully, he'll contribute as long as he does. But we're always discussing income size, and there's a legal dimension. With this law, in fact, we'll be strengthening property law on a legal basis beyond income. This will actually contribute seriously to our market economy, to the functioning of the market economy, as well as its social effects. Mr. Demirel mentioned a suicide incident due to a mandatory transfer. It's a very sad event. God rest his soul. But I'll leave it to you to appreciate how accurate it would be to place a suicide on a mandatory transfer. No doubt it's a very upsetting event, but it's probably not a very healthy approach to link suicide to just one transfer. Mr. Shandır asked me if there was going to be a share for the governors. Such an arrangement in Article 11 is not currently in question.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0092par0285	Why not?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0091par0286	The municipalities are not expected to receive a share, but, of course, there is a very serious source for the urban transformation, which the municipalities are very interested in. He informed us that there is an arrangement in the 11th article of Article 1 of this article, but there is no share in general income. In response to the question of Mr. Demirözüs's 2/B fields: 5.4 per cent of the 2/B fields are built -- 95 per cent more or less agricultural land, fields that are used for other purposes. 85 per cent are actually more agricultural-oriented, 5.4 per cent are built, and the other is more agricultural-oriented, such as the mera. On the other hand, in response to Mr. Right's question, 410,000 hectares are considered approximately 2/B. Of course, when we say employment, rural development, employment will undoubtedly be a basic goal. The employment of our forest villagers in more lucrative activities will undoubtedly be targeted in these programmes. I'll answer your question. I don't know how much wooding is thought of in the slap, but as of now, our friends can give us a written answer. Perhaps a plan will be planned throughout Turkey after the revenues from here and our Tokat province will undoubtedly get a share here. Mr. Köse says there is no economic value in the fields of agriculture, why do we take the price? We're assuming, of course, that whatever the economic value of the cost of our Finance Ministry's work is going to be reflected in the price, so if it's a field that doesn't have a lot of efficiency, it's going to have a low value; if it's a efficient, productive field, it's going to reflect that price. So there has to be at least a theoretical relationship between this economic value and the Rayic price, but, of course, if there's a finding that's not accurate in the field, it's certainly useful to review it. Mr. Halaman said we're solving problems that have been the result of long years of nepotism. Sure, a comment, I don't want to say anything to him. There was a question in the form "Why is the property value not based on?" We know that real estate values are pretty low on track values. This law is not just about profit, it's obvious. If the only goal was to get revenue, we would do these transactions over 100 percent of the cost, but on the other hand, as I've just highlighted again, we all have rights on these beings, we have the right of the whole community, and we have to look out for that, so we're going to make it easier, but on the one hand, we're going to protect the rights of this entire community, and we're going to have to make a profit out of it, and we're going to have to spend it in matters where society cares about its priorities. This can be considered as a balance, so we didn't shift to both ends, so there has been an even more obvious approach that balances both at a low value, such as the property tax, or at a full price. How many hundred of them were built? We answered the question. Mr. Seçer asked a question about the departure of these two ministries and an investigation. According to our friends, the investigation is still under way, as far as I can tell, this investigation is not over. The investigation is ongoing, so we can't give any information at this point.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0093par0295	Mr. Secretary, your time is up, but I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0091par0297	Mr. Türkoglu asked a question, why don't we sell in the city and the mujavir area? More likely, concerns were looked after, such as urbanization, public services, the city's development planning. Of course, we have over 3,000 municipalities, each with their own unique conditions, but...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0094par0298	Mr. Secretary, everything in Çukurova is a first-class farmland.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0091par0299	Yeah, I mean, since there's been a general arrangement here, it's been considered more that the municipality, the zoning activities, as I understand it, can be evaluated as a city-building area. Our current arrangement is the municipality and the asylum, so...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0094par0300	I understand the current arrangement, and we can understand it when we read it, but our goal is that we have no chance of changing the quality of first-class farmland in the heart of Çukurova, the city's mujavir area, why don't we sell it? That's what we want.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0091par0301	Yeah, well, that's the arrangement we have here, I can only say that.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0094par0302	But this can be arranged, so it can be solved.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0091par0303	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0095par0304	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressmans, the talks on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on article 1: 1st of the 1 998 Numbered Legislature. Article 2 of the Article 2. We would like to request the addition of the announcement to be issued after the announcement taken out of the woods. We propose and propose that the term "equipment" taken into consideration in the 1st article of the current Bill shall be changed as. Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0096par0315	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0095par0316	Mr. Hamzacebi, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0097par0317	Mr. President, when I explained the views of the Republican People's Party Group on the entire bill, I stated that the amendment was incomplete in the face of these provisions, reminding them of the provisions of Article 170 of the Constitution. Because the 170th article of the Constitution shall be assigned to the settlement and use of the forest villagers of places that have been removed from the forest, due to the loss of the forest property in science and science as of 31/12/1981. So the main rule the Constitution stipulates is that the places that have been removed from the forest border can be dedicated to the use and use of only the forest villagers. According to this clause, sales are not possible. A change is required in the Constitution's ruling to make the sale possible. I have stated that we will not put our concerns in front of this bill as an obstacle, but what is true is that the regulation, which allows the sale, without giving up that date, is the 31/12/1981 of the Constitution. Therefore, I suggest that this law may pass through this way, but from now on, we can quickly make a small change with a compromise in Article 170. This eliminates controversy over the breach of the Constitution. I've already passed on my proposal to the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. He had made a comment that the 177th article of the Constitution did not interfere with the sale. Mr. Secretary can comment like this, he can understand the clause, but what binds us is the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court's decisions. The Constitutional Court's rulings thus far have shown that sales based on this clause are contrary to the Constitution. So in order to end this discussion, I propose to all political parties, particularly the ruling party, to make such an arrangement here. I also stated that the main purpose of the bill should be to support the forest peasant as he solves property problems, but there is no ruling in this bill to support the forest peasant. There are no provisions for the return of income to the forest peasant. For example, 40 percent of the revenue from the sale will be used for the development of forest villagers and for the development of forest areas, ihya, and the creation of new forest areas. That's the verdict on the offer. The important thing is that when we support the forest villager, we also create new forest fields instead of these fields coming out of our hands. So we think it's imperative that a certain portion of the income be used to create forest villages and new forest areas. The other thing is, I tell the forest peasant to be given for free. Otherwise, these lands won't fall into the hands of the forest peasant. In sales over 50% of the price, Rayic is likely to be bought by someone else instead of a forest villager, which will eventually come out of the hands of the forest peasant. Again, let's give the forest peasant the deed he's been using since his ancestors for hundreds of years. Dear lawmakers, one important thing is that the administration will be under a great deal of pressure. For two years, the staff of the Forest General Directorate, Tapu and Kadastro General Directorate, especially the National Real Estate Directorate, will enter into a very busy work environment. There are no provisions in this bill for personnel who will perform this intensive work, and there are no provisions for financial rights for these personnel. With such a heavy burden on the shoulders of these personnel, I suggest we place a judgment here that will pay for his hard work, his hard work. We have a motion for that, and when it comes time, we'll make statements about it. That's where I end my words. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0098par0327	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. 1st of the 1 998 Numbered Legislature. Article 2 of the Article 2. We would like to request the addition of the announcement to be issued after the announcement taken out of the woods. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0099par0336	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0098par0337	Mr. Erdogan, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0100par0339	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion that we have made on Article 1 of this law. I salute your high council. Now, in Article 2 of Article 1 of the Law, Article 2 of the Law, Article 2 of Law 6831 states that the land of the Treasury is removed from its borders and the land of the Treasury is carried out. However, one of the provisions of this law is related to land 2/A, so according to a bill brought by the government, we thought it would be appropriate to add the notice to the application of the 2/A land to be removed from the forest, so we brought it here. Now, I'd like to focus on a few issues regarding the law: First, almost 40 percent of cadastro studies on 2/B have not been completed. Of course, it is not foreseen how long it would take for so much cadastro work to be completed. Thus, it is unclear how much space will be moved out of 2/B before the cadastro studies are completed, and how narrow the forest areas will be. Therefore, it is necessary to determine how many areas will be removed out of the forest before amendments are made to Articles 169 and 170. Of course, since such changes are not foreseen by this law in the Constitutional Court, the law must one day return from the Constitutional Court. The 2/A application is already the strangest, weirdest ingredient in the law. From now on, it is unclear how much space will be applied to 2/A according to the pleasure of TOKI. Since the beginning of this bill, the government has had a very intense campaign for the price, but so far no explanation has been made for what the price is. Also, the lack of a right to object to the price provides a joy for the cost. To eliminate this pleasure, the price must be announced quickly and informed. The province of Muğla is the most coastal in Turkey. It is also the third place in Turkey on 2/B and its treasure properties, so it is a very serious problem for our citizens who are using these lands to sell treasure land at 5km to the sea and 500m away from the lakes in the Mugla province concerning the sale of its assets. These citizens will be victims of the loss of the land they use. Again, unfortunately, one issue is overlooked during the determination of the Rayic price. A very important portion of the land in our region is the orchard - a citrus garden, an olive garden, a pomegranate garden. These peasants have worked in these gardens for years, they've grown these gardens, but now, while the price is determined, unfortunately, the labors of this village are determined by the forest as if it were taken by the treasure, as if it were a garden, and therefore its labor is sold back to the peasant with the soil. This is not an acceptable procedure. Again, the transfer of income from this law to TOKI is a very important challenge. Therefore, the Forest General Directorate must be divided into larger parts of the forest areas because there are dense areas in forest areas when the forest does not get income from here, and the cutting of these pine forests -- 90 per cent of the earth's pine honey is produced in Turkey, as you know, and 90 per cent of the pine honey in Turkey is produced in the county of Mugla -- is threatened by beekeeping in the Muğla Province. Again, this year's floods have caused serious damage because the forests have been cut down too much. Before long, the necessary arrangements will be made to ensure that the revenues from this place will be spent on the development of our forest lands, forests, forest villagers, and the development of our forests. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit02spe0101par0350	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0101par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 198 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. There are three motions on Article 2: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the introduction of the 2nd article under the title of the 198 Numbered Charter, which is included under the title "Knowledges." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of forest villagers number 198 and the assessment of areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure and the sale of treasured farmland is 2. We provide and propose that the clause be adjusted in the following way. B) 2/B areas: Law 6831, dated 20.06.1973, and changed by Law 1774. Article 23.09.1983, and Article 2 of the Code No. 2896, 05.06.1986. "The area of the first joke (B) was removed from the forest for the sake of the treasure in the name of the treasure." In Article 2 of the 198 law bill, we propose and propose that a bell be removed from the bill. Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0102par0016	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0101par0017	Mr. Kaplan, come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0103par0018	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now looking at the Assembly in many areas, including Antalya, Mersin, and also about this 2/B. However, we would like to share this concern, especially in cases involving the treasure and the forest administration, it is a fact that forest villagers are a great victim. Because there's a phenomenon called a forest map in the cadastro cases of forest villagers. Photos were taken from above, mapped as a forest map, and after all the cadastros, all the forest villagers were at odds with the treasure at the head of the Forest General Directorate, these cases were filed, and 80 percent of them lost their case. We have a victim and property situation here. Of course, a second situation, we want to point out this fact: on the side of Kemerburgaz in Istanbul, the land that has a property and has no forest area, changes two or three hands, the fourth hand comes in, gets the deed -- home is there -- one notice across the day; the forest administration, the treasure prosecutor, and fifty-six years of the land -- is suddenly lost because the court has decided in favour of the treasure, in favour of the forest. Now, how are you going to pay for this property? Now, there's a serious problem here. So with this law, there's a new property dispute with the law 2/B. Now, both sides of Istanbul's Bosporus have an application for the Bosphorus Development Plan, and all the land there, all the deeds are stocked. There's treasured land on the property that's in that stock, and there's small deeds. And there were apartments built on it, even private, luxury co-ops, and those cooperatives didn't have floor ownership. Apartments were sold there, too. So, now, think about the transformation of this. What's it gonna be like when you get back to the rightful owners? Very serious, new property disputes will emerge. In this law, we see that these parts are not considered, and that's a serious flaw. So when bureaucrats are working, you don't see in this report what these right-of-own conflicts are going to produce, what the cost is going to be. Look for it, you won't find it. Now, here, the creation of new forest areas... now, I understand, Mr. Canikli says that the forest is like a forest when the nuts in Giresun are next to them. We don't call it anything, but when you open those woods to other areas other than the real rights owners, it's the fear that they'll turn it into a rant state this time in their heads. So there's a flaw in this law: we can't see the photo, and since we can't see the picture, rights and wrongs are one thing. When rights and wrongs come together, each group has prepared a motion. With these proposals, we're trying to fix some of it, but the opposition parties don't have a chance to fix it with the motion, but the ruling party... the ruling party has gotten used to it, says: let's see the law, we'll see the wrongs, we'll see the law in practice, we'll have another law in two months. In fact, that's what we're here to criticize as the opposition, and I see a serious danger to claims of property. I wanted to draw attention to that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0104par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0105par0026	There's not enough of a decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0104par0027	No one asked for it, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of forest villagers number 198 and the assessment of areas that have been taken out of the forest for the sake of the treasure and the sale of treasured farmland is 2. We provide and propose that the clause be adjusted in the following way. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends B) 2/B areas: Law 6831, dated 20.06.1973, and changed by Law 1774. Article 23.09.1983, and Article 2 of the Code No. 2896, 05.06.1986. "The area of the first joke (B) was removed from the forest for the sake of the treasure in the name of the treasure." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0106par0037	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0104par0038	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0107par0039	Mr. Halman will speak.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0104par0040	Mr. Halaman, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0108par0042	Mr. President, thank you. Dear MPs, on behalf of the National Movement Party and myself, I salute you all. This law is a very special, important law that concerns Turkey all over the world. So his interest is again the Minister of Finance, again the Minister of Forestry, Minister of Village Affairs, Minister of Trade, Minister of Environment, but there are no ministers while this law is being discussed. Sometimes I wonder if the ministers went to prayer. I go to the mosque, and it's not there. Now, where are the ministers? When I say, do these ministers want to eliminate these government leaders? I say, are they setting up a new law that wants to remove the muhtars?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0109par0046	The neighborhood chiefs...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0108par0047	So as the neighborhood chiefs disappear... it's the memory of a district, a mujavir area, a neighborhood, so it's not a capital state. And then I think, what does this government want from this peasant? So in a hundred and fifty years, I'm going to sell these fields to those who've been working this agriculture for a hundred and fifty years, who've paid for it, who's paid for it, who's paid for it, who's paid for it, who's buying fertilizer, who's selling it, who's selling it, who's selling it, who's selling it, who's producing it, corn, corn, soy, soy, I'm going to sell it to you. What makes sense? And I'm going to sell them, collect money from you, with which I'm going to build another place, saying that there's a risk of disaster in Istanbul... Now, get your hands off this peasant, this farmer. The farmer's a mess anyway, he's not doing so well. So in our region, in Kozan, I am from Kozan -- about these areas, our village of Kermil, Hamamköy, Kamisoba, so the village of Aydın has been for a hundred and fifty years, many of which have been called the Abdülhamid deed, land. It's a shame, isn't it? Oh, my God! So what do you want from the man of Saimbeyli, from the man of the people of the Flood, from the man of the Fike? What do you want from Aladağ? What do you want from Posant? They're all the strangest of God, so shoot your bread out of your hand. Now, you're saying: I'll sell you the area where you live 50 percent, 70 percent. They're producing. At least give them free, give them free. You have not been a burden to this state, you have not been hostile to this state, you have not shot the police of this state, you have not shot your soldier, you have made your children read, I thank you. Therefore I give it to you for free. Embrace the citizen, and embrace the people. You've turned your back on the government, using public algebra. So that's what I've been talking about. We've made a motion to add an additive. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0110par0053	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to introduce and propose the introduction of the 2nd article under the title of the 198 Numbered Charter, which is included under the title "Knowledges." Vahap Selects (Mersin) and Friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0111par0062	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0110par0063	Mr. Young, come in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0112par0065	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 2 of Bill 198. My respects to all of you. Our motion -- this is in 2/B -- (f) we would like to include the declaration of the collective settlement to be added before the declaration of the 2/B/B. While describing the project field, the requirement for project implementation 2/B areas is not defined as 2/B areas located in public settlements. Of course, projects should be implemented specifically in areas 2/B where mass settlements are located, to compensate for the distorted structure, the lack of infrastructure. However, it is a contradiction with the law to open areas 2/B without mass settlements into project applications. Now, the esteemed MPs, of course, our friend just told us, there is no government. We're asking questions here, people sitting in the government aren't answering. Most of the ministers don't have faces to face with the House, all of them with a lot of dirt behind them, shame. How can he come and sit here?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0113par0068	Tell me what you got.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0112par0069	Now, look, the incentive package was published the other day. The Minister is also Minister of Development, and he is from the southeastern province of Tunceli. They brought him, and showed him the fifth place, sir. He showed himself in the sixth district, and he showed him in the fifth district. Friends, look, in all the incentive measures that have been implemented so far, Tunceli is the backward province in need of development. Has there ever been a single investment in this administration of yours? The road was not even built; there was no proper road, no village roads, no village drinking water. What investment did you invest in, and why did you buy this Tunisian province? People need a conscience. And in people, look...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0114par0071	They delivered refrigerators, Mr. Cameroon. They're handing out refrigerators in every house, what else do they have to do?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0112par0072	So they thought that by handing out refrigerators and washing machines, the Tunceli was up; that's their measure. Anyway, so, of course, here Mr. Recep is filled with a great hatred, a great hatred because Mr. Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu Tunceli, two of the MPs took out the CHP from Tucson, and, of course, brought out his feelings of hatred and hatred against this place, that's what he did to Tunceli. But there's only one investment that he's been waiting for from far away: at least make the Pertek Bridge, he says. It's very important and vital, but they're not doing anything. Come on, we don't want anything from you, either, but at least we don't want anything from you to be so arbitrary or immoral in your process. People have to have a conscience.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0115par0074	What do you have to do with it?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0112par0075	Now, Mr. Recep says in China, about his own head of MIT: "The judge has entered the field of duty. He sees us before him. He says it's for judgment. The judge saw himself above the law, he says. That's a lot of pumpkin talk. Yeah, well, even the simplest person here wouldn't say that. Who are you, Mr. Recep? Aren't you a walker? According to the Constitution, all actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial supervision. He's in my jurisdiction, he says. Who the hell are you? Well, it's... it's his space. Who are you? You gave an order, people committed crimes, the court investigated, and brought in people who committed crimes here. And with what authority and with what thought, what morality did you call the judge out of his field? He sees it above the law, he says. What law? Now, dear lawmakers, look, I mean, how does a person who says those things run Turkey? I mean, when he talks about it in front of a lawyer, they're so humiliated by people that they know that the person who said those words is neither knowledge nor understanding. Now, when he talks about these things in front of strangers, those people feel sorry for the state of the Republic of Turkey, what kind of person runs Turkey? he says.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0116par0079	Come into the woods, into the woods...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0112par0080	Now, for him, look, we offered a law here the other day, and you didn't take it. Mehmet Haberal left the other day, didn't see his mother. Now, look, Mehmet Haberal was offered the presidency at the time, when Ecevit rejected the presidency. Does a person who rejects the presidency make a revolution? Is there such irrationality, such immorality, such inhumanity? Is that okay, guys? The man offered and refused the presidency, both the presidential and the Right Way and the DSP. And yet, in your era, you say, "This will revolutionize, take power." Friends, it is inappropriate for the state of the Republic of Turkey to rule this country with such immoral thoughts. So, what are you going to do with these precautions? You'll make the rich rich rich. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Come on, let's make a new offer to Parliament, let's not let the politicians take advantage of it, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0117par0085	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0118par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0117par0087	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0118par0088	Mr. President, the speaker has insulted both our president and our party several times.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0117par0089	Mr. Canikli, I will give you my word, but first the Minister has a request for a statement according to the Civil Code 69. You can come to the bench, if you like, and your place...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0091	Could be from here.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0117par0092	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0095	Thank you very much. Congressman Tunceli has pressed charges against both our Ministry and our Prime Minister, which are in no way justified in the province of Tunceli.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0097	What investments did you make?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0098	No specific criteria have ever been used in an incentive study.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0099	The result is obvious, you've invested in the police station!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0100	61 criteria and this criteria have been applied equally with eighty-one.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0101	What's the criteria, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0102	In the smallest way, there's never been a special study about anything.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0103	If it were me, I wouldn't make it look like that.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0104	This is not just based on economic criteria.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0105	What criteria, dear, what criteria?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0106	Socioeconomic criteria.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0107	No investment, nothing.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0108	All indicators considered. In addition, this incentive system is not the only support mechanism; such as development agencies, KOSGEB, rural development supports, especially our cities on the tunceli scale, have much better support mechanisms, and they are effectively used.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0109	Tell me what criteria were based on.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0110	In this period, there has been more investments than any other time in the past, in Tunisia, in double routes to the university, in health, in education, in the past...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0111	The university has opened up everywhere!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0119par0112	...and we'll keep doing it.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0121par0114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0115	Mr. President, they haven't actually invested anything in Tucson, there's no improvement.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0121par0116	Mr. Young, you said it, and the Minister answered it.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0120par0117	No, if the police station accepts investments, let's bring them into your province.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0121par0118	Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0121	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I'm afraid we've just heard a speech with a lot of words of morality and immorality in it. Do you know what one of my greatest vices is, dear friends? It's praise for the coupgers, it's banter for the coupgers, it's to pave the way for the coupgers, it's to support them. This is one of the greatest vices. Do you feel differently about this general rule, this general principle, dear friends, we have friends who think differently? Of course not. Isn't that right? I mean, people don't give a damn about their will...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0123par0123	You can't charge anyone without a prisoner.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0124	.. Is it not immoral to serve in one way or another when people are being hit in a way that upsets the balance of the nation? Is it not immoral to contribute to their work, knowingly and willingly, to support them, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0124par0125	Who's the coupgers, Canicli?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0126	Let me tell you something. Look...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0124par0127	Canicli, there are a lot of men in your group who have been counseling them.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0128	So in order to talk about someone's morality, someone's immorality at work, people who say that have to be really moral, dear friends.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0124par0129	You've got a lot of civil servants with them in your group, you've got ministers.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0130	Isn't that right, it's supposed to be moral? I mean, words like that only fit a decent person. In general, I mean in general. A man has to watch his mouth when he talks. Now, to the least, I'm returning the same statements to the president of the person who insulted me while we were having this conversation here. I'll return it with the same, whatever you say. You've actually just insulted your own president. Yes, you insulted your own president because why?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0125par0132	I'm just commenting on the words of the President General.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0133	You did this by giving us the minimum return. So you're gonna watch what you say when you talk, and if you have a document, you're gonna talk accordingly.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0126par0135	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0122par0136	If you have evidence, if you can prove it, you will. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0139	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0128par0140	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0141	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has made a mockery of our President, I want to make a promise.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0129par0142	No, I returned it exactly, Mr. President, I returned it.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0128par0143	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0145	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't think this bench should be a polemic platform, and it shouldn't be a pit stop.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0129par0146	Right. We didn't start it.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0130par0147	Group President, you're the Veteran, step in!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0148	Mr. Canikli will come out and, of course, protect his own President, Mr. Prime Minister, and if he thinks there's a sentence, taunting him, it's only natural for him to explain in this frame, but when he makes this statement, I'm returning his sentences to Mr. Kılıçdaroğlu. It's inappropriate for him to say.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0129par0149	If there's a mistake, then step in.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0150	What does Mr. Kilicdaroglu have to do with these talks now?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0131par0151	Let him come and take care of his congressman.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0152	I mean, look, but look...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0132par0153	What I didn't say...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0154	No, no, Mr. Canikli, you answer to Mr. Kamer Young, you say his sentences aren't true, you can say anything to yourself, it's your right, it's your right. Mr. Kamer Young may not be able to speak against you again, but it wouldn't be appropriate if you took this to Mr. Kilicdaroglu, who has no interest. Mr. Kilicdaroglu is a decent statesman with a clear line of civil service, a political figure who wants to serve the country.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0133par0155	Who is it?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0127par0156	I mean, I'm very sorry that you brought Mr. Kilicdaroglu here when there was no need. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0134par0159	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0160	Mr. President teased me in his speech, and he said, "He should be moral here. And he insulted me. Please, if you'd like... he's applauding the fighters. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to take this hard...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0134par0161	Mr. Young, I give you my word, but please don't give me any more trouble and let's just drop it. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0164	Now, Mr. President, I'm not making anything of myself. What did Recep Erdogan say? In regard to the president of the MIT, the judge entered an area of which there was no duty, he says. The judge says that if he enters an area that does not belong to him, he will see us. ▪ His judgment saw him above the law. Now, do you take that statement?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0136par0166	You can criticize him, no one has any objection to him, but you insult him!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0167	I can't even call you a financier, but now, look, I'm here from the Council of Counsellor's office, but I gave 82 Constitutions to myself in 1982...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0137par0168	Striker, striker!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0169	I have resisted all the arbitrary savings that the military has brought. I didn't enter three parties they formed in 83, I became an independent candidate, they vetoed me. They've sent the people you're currently elected Speaker to the House without vetoing them. Now, people need to talk on purpose when they're talking. A person in the prime minister's office today says: "I will commit a crime, and the judgment cannot interfere with me. Who are you to judge? A person who spends it is not a normal person. A person who spends it is not a person who will govern himself. So, here you are, now you're making these laws... and I say, let's make a motion that politicians don't take advantage of that law. You'll bring 50 acres, 100 acres, your own men...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0138par0172	Who is it? Explain who's here!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0173	After that, we give land to the poor peasant.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0138par0174	Tell me! Tell me your name!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0175	What kind of morality is that? Isn't that immoral? Isn't looting the state's property the greatest vice of all?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0138par0176	Name, who is it? Name it!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0139par0177	It's the mufter who doesn't prove it!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0178	Let's, uh, let's take these off if we have to. You're always picking up the heat here. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Look, you passed a tax law, you brought amnesty Act 6111, where you forgave all the looters, the tax traffickers, the plastic billers, all of them.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0140par0181	You don't know, you speak by heart!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0182	What reason, what honor and what character would that be, my friends! You collect taxes on the minimum wage of citizens, you don't collect taxes from trillions of winners, you forgive them.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0140par0183	Name one! Give me an example! Name one!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0184	People have to be moral to teach morality for once. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0141par0186	Thank you, Mr. Young.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0142par0187	Mr. President, this is not a conversation. If he's got a document, if he's got information, he'll get it out. Look, he can't name one, he's just slandering, because that's one of the areas he specializes in. He doesn't do anything else. Otherwise, look, Mr. President, if you have a document, information, name, let him out. Otherwise, honorable people will serve...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0188	You saw what happened to the Lighthouse prosecutors!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0141par0189	Thank you, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0135par0195	Sir, I want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0141par0196	I'll look at the number of decisions that are sufficient. I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... the decision is enough... We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0143par0201	Mr. President, it doesn't grow in a minute. How about a minute?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0141par0202	That's for what happened here in the meantime, sir. The decision is enough, and so is the roll call.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0144par0204	There's not enough of a decision, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0145par0205	Mr. President, don't take the next ones.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit03spe0141par0207	Time's up, please follow the rules. You're welcome... It's over, sir. There's no decision enough, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0141par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 2 of the 198 Bill of Law, the Tunceli MP Kamer Young and his friends' motion to vote was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted; the decision is sufficient. We'll resume negotiations on the bill from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 3 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following is the 3rd amendment to the development of Forest Villagers Number 198 and the assessment of areas that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland. Article 2. According to the joke, "the property log of the premises in 2/A and 2/B states that Article 2 of Article 2 of the Law (A) and (B) are removed from the forest borders, according to its interest, by the office of the forest or the Ministry of Finance or at the request of the administration, the deed is abandoned by the authorities." In the matter, we offer and propose to remove the expression "responsibility." Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, sir. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0146par0013	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0141par0014	Who's gonna talk?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0147par0015	You looked it up, Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0141par0016	Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0148par0018	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all on behalf of the National Movement Party and myself. You know, we're still in negotiations with the 2/B Bill of Law. Now, here's what I'd like to say: look, we've expressed today that 27 percent of our country is covered in forests. In our country, where 27 percent are covered with forests, unfortunately, 50 percent of our forests are corruptly qualified. Again, about 5 million hectares, one quarter of the forests of Turkey are also young forests. These young forests need rapid care, and we need forest engineers to take care of them, at least 2,500-3. We need a thousand forest engineers. But Mr. Secretary, I insist -- I insist -- he does not agree to meet with forest engineers, nor does he agree to meet with the Forest Engineers Room, which constitutes the general roof of forest engineers. Now, if this bill is intended for the development of both our forest villagers and the survival and maintenance of our forests, we need to hire at least 2,000 forest engineers very quickly. Dear MPs, again, you know that May, starting in June, the fire season begins in our country, and the fire season is coming. In 2007, some of the temporary workers were recruited, but most of them work around five months. Now, you know, most of our country's forests are fire-sensitive. We have forest workers, forest engineers, forest officials, who put their lives on the line and gave hundreds of martyrs to do so. If we put our workers on staff during the fire season... here's the income, that's what we're supposed to do with these revenues. Five months, six months, seven months, the fire season continues in our country. Other than that, we have close to 10 million hectares to rehabilitate, and we still have about 5 million hectares of young forest maintenance, so what if we put them on the staff, and we run them around here, and we make them happen? But unfortunately, I'm saying, look, it's been a great loss to forestry that this bill's legalisation coincides with this Minister's time. I'm saying this over and over again. This Minister's Ministry does not have the word "wood" or "orman" or "orman" or "ordinary engineer."
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0149par0023	He's not here either!
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0148par0024	Now he's not here again. So the most important law proposal for the Ministry of Forestry is being discussed, again, yes. I'm telling you, Mr. Secretary, you may not understand forestry, you may not be able to determine forestry policy. The Director General of the Forest is a long-standing organization with a hundred and seventy-three years of tradition, and if you leave it alone, they'll do their job right. If you don't understand forestry, at least build your advisors from forestmen. He increased the number of counselors, increased the number of counselors from 24 to 130, and raised them from 24 to 130 in his ministry to 130. But for thirty and forty years he served this profession, from the business chief's level, the business manager, the district manager, the general manager, 18 of our friends who worked in the middle of the mountains in the middle of nowhere, sending Erzurum, Van, Ağrı, Kars, Adana to exile here. Look, one of them is cancer.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0150par0027	Why didn't you count all of Turkey?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0148par0028	Look, I counted all over Turkey, I said there's your name. These people's parents are here, one of them has cancer, one of them has been taken by smugglers while he's practicing forestry, and one of them has heart disease. Do you know who these 18 people are, Mr. Deputy? These people have heart disease, these people have cancer, these people are wounded, 60-year-olds. You're gonna take advantage of these people, so don't take any chances. These people...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0150par0030	This isn't a place of exile.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0148par0031	Look, I'll tell you what, have him send over the counselors he took from your party.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0150par0032	Erzurum is not a place of exile.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0148par0033	If he's twenty, twenty-five years old, he's throwing 118 counselors, let them go, let them go, let them go, but for forty years you're going to drive those who serve this profession, then... you go ahead and do it. I'm saying he's got cancer, I'm saying he's got heart disease.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0151par0035	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0148par0036	Congressmans, you can't be bullied. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0151par0039	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. There are four motions on the fourth article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of Forest Villagers No. 198 and the assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland is 4. Article 2. We propose and propose that the duration of the joke be changed as one month and the duration of the appeal is six months. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentence of Article 4 (5) of the 198 Numbered Charter, which is discussed, should be changed into non-usable in and out of the state forests or next door to the village and neighborhood. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law Bill on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands, as well as to Supporting Development of the Number 198 Forest Villagers and Value Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of the Treasure. "However, in the transport and placement of this clause, the families of Article 12 of Law 5543 are considered entitled to the second joke, and if they make demands, they are also inhabited." Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 4 of the 198 bill be removed from the draft text. Does the commission agree with this last motion I made you read? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0152par0054	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0151par0055	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to prevent impossible arbitrary practices in the structural properties of forest ecosystems. Both this property form and the universal properties of forest ecosystems require that forestry be organised and governed as a public activity area. The bill, however, aims to make it possible for the implementations of the state-owned forest ecosystems to be transformed into private people and corporations' orchards and quickly spread through the implementations supported under the name "special treening." At this point, it is also vague as to what criteria the forest land will be transformed into farmland. It is the expression of an arbitrary attitude in the text of matter, "where there is no use in keeping it in the forest in terms of science and science, rather than where it is found to be useful in turning it into an agricultural field." This motion was made to compensate for the irreparable damage that would result in the transformation of forest land into agricultural land one by one. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article 4 of Article 4 of the Law Bill on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands, as well as to Supporting Development of the Number 198 Forest Villagers and Value Places Out of Forest Borders in the Treasure Name of the Treasure. Nurettin Canikli (Giresun) and his friends "However, in the transport and placement of this clause, the families of Article 12 of Law 5543 are considered entitled to the second joke, and if they make demands, they are also inhabited." Does the commission agree with the motion? We commend you, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0153par0067	We agree.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0154par0068	Motive...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0151par0069	I'm reading the reason: According to the Laws on Supporting the Development of Forest Villages 2924, which has been lifted by this Bill of Law, there is still an effort to transport and place it into a field of 2/A within the borders of the indoor village (the people of the village) of Balıkesir Ili. According to Law 2924 and the secondary legislation laid down to demonstrate the implementation of this Law, families who left their villages, their dwellings, and left their villages, were also entitled to residence. With the new system in the draft, he does not recognize such families as rightful owners. If this change is not made, the work of transport and placement still being carried out will result in some of our citizens' victims and, therefore, injustices, and this work will be condemned. For reasons explained, the motion has been proposed that families with property in their villages or villages next to them should be transferred to areas 2/A and placed in villages along with those who have been decided to be placed in the village have been moved to other places, but have been removed from their villages or from their villages and have been transferred from their villages or from their villages, so that these families may not be victims, as predicted by Law 2924, and the secondary legislation on the implementation of this Law and on the implementation of its laws, in 2/A practices, whether it is agreed to transfer or to be removed from their settlements. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the final sentence of Article 4 (5) of the 198 Numbered Charter, which is being discussed, should be changed into "These immovables cannot be used in or next door within the state forests or outside of the country's and neighborhood's housing grounds." M. Akif Hamzacebi (Istanbul) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0155par0081	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0156par0082	Mr. Ilhan Demiröz...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0151par0083	Mr. Irony, here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0157par0085	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on our motion on Article 4 of the proposed 198 rows under discussion. But like my friends before me, I'd like to start by highlighting two things. One of them is that I think it's really sad for us and our friends and all the MPs who are testifying here. Besides, it's really sad to see that most of our friends in the Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission, not only the Minister, but the majority of our friends aren't here. A second issue, friends, this is the bench, yes, a place where everyone can express their words freely as they please, but by putting myself out here, I stress that we have to pay attention to our words, as well, but I would like to say that the group vice presidents have to be more careful. I'd like to point out from a statement here that it's never appropriate to refer to the general president because of my speech, and that the members of the group should act in a more exemplary manner.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0158par0088	Tell Kamer Young.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0157par0089	Guys, I've told you about it, I've made a promise, he gets what's coming to him. You don't have to warn me about this, please...
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0159par0090	Don't talk to each other, Mr. Irony. Please address the General Assembly, do not talk to each other.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0157par0091	Mr. President, friends are especially coming to the front as usual.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0159par0092	You go ahead, sir.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0160par0093	I just sat down.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0157par0094	Then don't say anything, please.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0160par0095	You go ahead.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0161par0096	Mr. Irony, go ahead, take your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0162par0098	Mr. President, of course I'm a new congressman, and I'm not in a position to put my ears to those who make promises like these friends. In this case, I don't do it, and I condemn them doing it this way, and I want to express that they shouldn't. Dear friends, I'd like to begin by highlighting the fact that this law is the law of peace and liquidation. Yes, we all know that there have been long-term issues and debates on property issues and issues that have been removed under Article 2/B of Forest Law No. 6831 due to the loss of forest quality, which is known in public as 2/B land, as predicted by the Constitution of 1982, before 31/12/1981. In this regard, we call this project the law of peace, and I want to say that this is how we contribute to the union of the state and citizens, and that we inform our citizens in the June 12th elections on this issue. And I agree with the idea that this law is a liquidation law. Because it's obvious that after 30 years of the predicted date, there will be places that are always covered by 2/B and 2/A or under the forest regime or protection. We've also stated in the commissions that there's no chance that all matters can be resolved by this law. The problems of most of our citizens will not be solved, and our citizens are in great expectation. For example, we have close to 2,000 citizens in Bursa, who do not enter into the law, who have the deed, but who have the cadastro, who have the deed, who have the deeds of God in the woods. These are not just citizens of Bursa, but citizens of all parts of Turkey. With this law, unfortunately, we see that they cannot be solved, they cannot be solved. However, when we met with our friends on the Commission, we said that the law should be passed in a way that concerns the broad masses, and then the law 2/B will not be resurfaced again after a certain year, after five years and ten years, it shouldn't be on the agenda. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do I have your word, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0163par0103	I'll give you one more minute, please make up your mind.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0162par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to finish my statement on the liquidation law here. In this sense: Yes, there must be problems in all the time that goes by, but in the case of this law, we may have the chance to lose our forests day after day. In this regard, I consider this law to be a liquidation law, and I salute you all with respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0164par0108	Thank you, Mr. Irony. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The law on the development of Forest Villagers No. 198 and the assessment of places that have been taken out of the forest for the Treasury and the sale of Treasury-owned farmland is 4. Article 2 of the Article 2. We propose and propose that the duration of the joke be changed as one month and the duration of the appeal is six months. Mehmet Shandır (Mersin) and his friends Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0165par0117	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0164par0118	Here you go, Mr. Çınar.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0166par0120	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the amendment motion we made on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on Article 4 of the Bill of Law on the Sales of Treasured Agriculture Lands, as well as on Supporting the Developments of Forest Village Villagers, in the Name of the Treasury. I salute your high council. The bill that we're discussing today is known publicly as ί2/B). Lands 2/B, according to the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, are places that were claimed to have lost forest quality before 31/12/1981, where the forest regime was removed, transferred to the treasure. This, again, covers more than 400,000 hectares, according to the Ministry's assessment. The 2/B issue is the sale of valuable land that can be converted into $25 billion in money by political power. It is a matter of significant sizes that cannot be measured with monetary value due to its quality and its consequences. What the government has been after so far is nothing more than a 25-30 billion-dollar runt, which is in its sense of survival. As the government claims, after each privatisation, that the revenues of the places that will be sold by this law are not to make money for the state, but to solve and reform the problems of forest villagers, but it seems that the state's money without privatisation has not become an investment, nor has it ever been a cure for the nation's problems. If you recall, the government, which collected earthquake taxes for years, used these taxes in places that had nothing to do with the earthquake, and admitted it. The fact that 90 per cent of the revenues to receive will be given to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, the remaining 10 per cent to the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks is an indication of what kind of reform work will be made for forest villagers. Dear MPs, our province of Kastamonu is a place of our country's most important forest assets, as well as forest areas. About 74 percent of our territory is covered by forested areas. As of this region, 74 per cent of the area is covered with forested terrain, and its location is seriously forested by forest villages. Dear MPs, in almost 20 counties of the province of Kastamonu, there are forest villagers. Nearly 60 percent of our village is composed of forest villagers. This forest is the income that our peasants make in a serious sense from the forest embodiment. Again, with this law, the maximum loss of the province of Kastamonu and its forest villagers would be that our villagers would buy their land by paying 50 per cent of the price the state would set after this law. However, it is one of the greatest shames of this law that there is no difference between the forest villagers and the other right-owners. The fact that 90 per cent of the revenues from the sale of 2/B land will be used out of context leads us to doubt as to how our forest villagers will reveal the truth about the development. The laws you make here must be for the welfare of our nation and our forest villagers, not to make someone rich or to open new doors of rants. Our forest villagers should benefit the most from land 2/B. As a matter of fact, they're a group of people with the lowest living conditions. Today, when you come to Kastamonon, our constituency, and visit our forest villages, you will see in a more real way what conditions they live in. A better, better, higher standard of life is the right of our entire nation. Again, according to the second joke of Article 4 of this law, the period of detection of land to be saved by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is a week and a month of appeals will reveal new victims. It would be more appropriate to have a month to determine those times, six months to appeal. It's not all about money or interest. It is our duty to keep our citizens happy and prosperous. On this occasion, I ask that the bill of law that is being discussed bring blessings to our country, and I salute your high council with respect and respect.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit04spe0167par0129	Thank you, Mr. Chanar. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break.
tbmm-2012-04-12sit05spe0167par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 94th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 198 from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin the talks of İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubbat, who is ranked in the 4th rank, Mehmet Doğan Kubat, who has been in charge of making changes to the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures, and of Cırklareli MP Turgut Dibek (Ceza); and Human Rights Review Commission and Justice Commission reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions could not be found after this, the decision was made to hold talks Tuesday (April 17th 2012) on the opening of a motion on Interior Minister İdris Naim Şahin. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
