tbmm-2012-12-04sit01spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the 33nd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a half-hour break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0001par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word off the agenda belongs to Kayseri MP Ismail Tamer, who asked for the week of the disabled. Here you go, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on December 3rd, World Day of the disabled. I salute your High Council. About 1 billion people are disabled. That number is 8.5 million people in our country. Of course, we have always been aware of the need to approach the disabled with compassion, and I hereby address you as their spokesman in the House on behalf of the disabled. I'd like to point out that we've always been aware that we need to be there for our disabled brothers in Turkey, that we need to be there for them, that we need to remove the obstacles and make them unblocked, and then we're going to continue. When we call it an obstacle, we come to mind a person who has difficulty adapting to social life and meeting daily needs, protection, care, rehabilitation, and advice, due to a lack of physical, mental, spiritual, emotional, and social abilities for some reason. While their work in the field of disabled persons is social service, it is also necessary to express it with many sciences, such as health, psychological, physical therapy, education, culture, architecture, law, art. So we think it's better to view disabled people as multidisipliners than in one way. Dear lawmakers, as of yesterday, we participated in various work on the disabled in my constituency, Kayseri. I'm sure you've done a lot of work on the disabled in your own constituency, and I'd like to congratulate you all on that. Because what we saw there, for example, was above all things, to see the celestial displays of mentally disabled people in Kayseri. Drawing fondly to them gave them one of the best examples of their ability to teach despite their mental barriers. Again, competitions were held under the name "Goalball" in a programme conducted by the University of Melikşah in Kayseri. Six teams have joined. We had a chance to watch these. Believe me, I'd really like to say that you're an example of those disabled brothers and sisters who've done their sporting activities in sports. In all this beauty, we, the AK PARTY, have done a lot for the disabled. In the Constitution, we brought them positive discrimination. Besides, what we've done is we've given special education support to disabled individuals, whether it's social security or not. We made free transports to ensure that he had access to students, schools, and institutions in need of special training. We've had a variety of benefits in secondary school and university exams. Again, we have performed activities in entrance exams, such as unnecessary physical arrangements for the disabled, giving aid staff for orthopedics and visually impaired persons. Among the benefits provided for university students, successful and needy disabled students have been given priorities by the Institute for Higher Education Loans and Homes. Occupational rehabilitation has been done. Of course, first of all, I want to make it clear that many things have been done. But rather than expressing it here, the Holy Lord says: "If you look in the eyes of the world, you can only see the face, but if you look in the eye of the heart, you will see the essence. We have always been there for the disabled to see the essence and to help them, and I will continue to be there for them. On December 3rd, I congratulate you all on the day of the disabled. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0003par0018	Thank you. The second unscheduled statement belongs to Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk, who asked for a comment on the Day of World Miners on December 4th.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0004par0022	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear MPs were yesterday (December 3rd) World Day of the disabled. It is our sincere wish that all obstacles to the disabled be removed immediately. And today is December 4th, World Mining Day. We also wish to remove obstacles to the mining industry. Why December 4th Miners Day? A blonde, blue-eyed girl named Santa Barbara, who fled the wrath of her father in the Roman Empire, is sheltered in a cave and is declared a patron saint of miners because she is believed to have protected the miners who worked in that cave, and she is declared first the Day of 4 December Miners in Anatolia because she lived in Izmit, the Roman Empire at that time. After that, it is celebrated all over the world as the Day of the 4th December Miners. My dear friends, energy is life, life. When you say our basic needs can be met so that life can be maintained, your basic need for energy comes first, oil comes, coal comes. The mining industry is the engine of industrialization, with international strategic importance. Today mining has become a component of military policy, beyond being an economic phenomenon. It is not possible to develop countries that are ignoring their own resources, unable to use their own resources for their own. Turkey, which is developing, has to invest and produce to feed the population growth, while increasing its GDP per cent, has to increase its level of prosperity. It is possible to bring underground resources into the economy and to increase the share of underground resources within the illegal national product. Because of our people's true owners and their insurmountable properties, there is a need to be planned and produced for public benefit while our mines are being run in the mining sector, which future generations have a say in the mining industry. My dear friends, the mining industry is one of the most risky sectors in the world and is one of the most business accidents in the world. Turkey is ranked number one in business accidents, award-winning, ranked number one in the first row, and about 100 workers a year have lost their lives in Turkey. Again, the International Labour Organization emphasises that Turkey is ahead of China in these mortal business accidents, in mining accidents. Dear lawmakers, the problems of the mining sector have not been resolved during this period of power, and have been increased. In college, the students of the Mining College have problems with our faculty professors, which are unresolved. Businessmen who invest in the mining sector are still treated as members of the underground organization, considered smugglers. The problems of businessmen investing in the mining sector are not solved, but problems are raised daily. The latest edition, published by the Prime Minister, has caused further problems in the mining sector of 2012/15, published on the date 16/6/2012 and 28325 daily. He's attached to the Prime Minister's board. My dear friends, creating and implementing all these problems is the primary duty of those who rule the country and those who rule it. We are entering December 4th, where we celebrate the Day of the Miners of the World, without solving any problems in the mining sector. Our workers in the mining industry, today's Minister of National Education, former Labour Minister Omar Dinçer, are dying beautifully, as they say. Despite all this negativity, I once again celebrate the Day of the Miners of the Earth, the Day of Miners, the Day of Mines, the Day of Minesmen, the Day of Miners of Mine workers, the Day of Mines, whose memory I bow before their memory, in the belief that the days will come when we will happily celebrate in the mine accidents. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0005par0034	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement, again, belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, who asked for the appointment of 3 December World Day of the disabled.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0006par0038	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've been promised 3 December World's Day of the disabled, and I salute your honorable committee. Yesterday's December 3rd, the World Day of the disabled gave all of us a chance to meditate on the obstruction and the barrier. In order to identify and solve the problems of disabled persons, we must first know the numbers, barrier groups, and problems of our disabled brothers. However, the latest extensive work on the disabled is the 2002 survey of the Turkish Retards during the 57th Government, where the National Movement Party is a government partner. Over the past ten years, no extensive research has been conducted on disabled persons. In government statements and answers to the question motions, Turkey's Retarded Research 2002 data is used. Thus, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy is not sufficient for disabled citizens in the field of responsibility and the obstacle groups and problems of our citizens. According to Turkey's disabled research, 12.3 per cent of the population in our country survives as disabled as 8.5 million. The world average is 7.5 percent. Therefore, the government must first aim to reduce its disability rate in Turkey, with policies in place. Unfortunately, all services related to disabled persons have been co-operated with the joint plans and programmes of all concerned institutions and organisations, and it has not been possible to establish national policies so far. One of the duties of the modern state is to improve the rights of disabled individuals, to ensure the development, equal opportunities for the disabled, to ensure economic and social well-being, while 8.5 million disabled citizens have problems in every area from education to health and employment. 63% of people with vision, hearing, language, and speech, orthopedic and mental disabilities, 73 percent of those with continuous illness, cannot read or write. Education services can only be provided to 29,000 disabled students, according to the Ministry of National Education data, when the number of disabled individuals is between 5 and 18 years old, registered in the disabled national database and whose address is known. Social care services for disabled people in our country are extremely inadequate. The number of disabled people who need rehabilitation education is 2 million. However, the number of disabled people who receive rehabilitation training is 236,000. Again, 78 per cent of our disabled citizens are not part of the labour force, according to research results in 2002. The AKP government announced it would be the year of the disabled in 2010, promising that all public openings would be filled. However, according to the latest data of the State Chief of Staff, as of December 2012, there are 44,000 disabled officers who should be employed in the public. At the moment, however, 25,000 disabled officers are currently employed in public, 19,000 are open. As the number of civil servants and workers was calculated, nine ministries, many institutions and newly established universities were not included in this calculation, along with the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, established in 2011 under the rule of law. When these are included, the number of disabled people who should be employed in public is increasing, as I just gave them. At the end of September 2011, there should be 1,36,708 disabled employees at 50 or more insured workplaces, while the number of disabled employees is 87,519, which is 49 thousand disabled staffs. A fine of $1,671 per month is imposed on businesses that do not operate even if they are forced to operate disabled. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Since this amount is not deterrent, the employer prefers to pay a fine instead of running disabled. With these thoughts, I salute your honorable committee.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0007par0049	Thank you. As a result of the talks held on December 3, World Day for the disabled, some lawmakers have made a request for a statement. I promise you one minute because of the importance, sensitivity, and emotionality of the subject, and because they are the disabled relatives of lawmakers who are also demanding some commitments. Here you go, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0008par0054	Mr. President, last weekend was World week for the disabled. Now the disabled don't want to be taken pity on or taken away from themselves. The disabled want to earn their own bread with their own skills. Therefore, we must strive to give them a job, to provide them with food. We can all be disabled someday. Their honor is above all else. They want to work with honors, they want to find work with honors. They're being turned around by all kinds of doors. Therefore, the public, in particular, needs to be a priority, and the public needs to make more purchases for the disabled. They want to live off their hard work, their sweat. So it must be our duty to take care of these people -- we can all one day be disabled. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0007par0056	Thank you. Mr. Dedeoğlu...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0009par0059	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, there are major problems with respirators in the intensive care unit in our 400-bed city hospital, which has been built with high hopes for our heromarash. Our emergency patients are being transferred to cities around us, and there are a lot of problems with these respirators, and I don't have a tongue to say. My wish is that our Minister of Health, our government, will take immediate action on this matter. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0010par0062	Thank you. Mr. Karaahmetoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0011par0065	Thank you, Mr. President. It's one of the most important export pens of our nut agricultural export revenues, where we make 75 percent of the world's production, where we make 1.5 or 2 billion dollars a year in exports. Two million producers' livelihoods, food industry and trade added value and employment contributions, and explanations for the import of even our nuts from the United States. We see that we import all kinds of fruits and vegetables from every country, according to the Turkish Agriculture Association. It's tragic that our country, which does not need to import the products mentioned in terms of climate and product diversity, has even imported nuts. Therefore, I hope that those who run our country will learn lessons from looking at this painting to support our producers. I wish for a world without obstacles for the disabled.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0012par0068	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0013par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I'd like to offer you my condolences. I want to give the government a warning. These days, the last days of old support are nearing, so the veals are cut off. These are national fortunes. Wealth is wasted. The period of support must be extended by the government. In addition, the government is required to support a decoy in order to prevent female animals from being slaughtered. In the days to come, I invite the government to be sensitive so as not to suffer from a shortage of meat and milk. And on the week of the disabled, I salute our entire nation with a year of uninterrupted wishes.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0014par0075	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0015par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I offer my condolences, and ask God for mercy. Mr. President, a communications centre has been established within the Ministry of Health called SABIM, and this SABIM, unfortunately, has become a complaint center, and is processing each application without pre-researching and inflicting a period of torture on doctors and other health workers. So I brought this up on November 20, 2012 with a question proposal, and I said: "Take a look at the complaints that have come to SABIM, then do what you have to do." This question was not answered. As a result of an examination of our friend a doctor a few days ago, our young doctor, Melike Erdem, who couldn't make him eat it in his honor, jumped from the sixth floor with an investigation paper from the SABIM, and committed suicide, and received the mercy of Hakkk. I wonder if the Minister of Health isn't feeling any remorse right now. This, this SABIM, must be dealt with immediately. I say. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0016par0084	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0017par0087	Mr. President, the High Council of Radio Television has fined CNBC-e-e-due 52.951 lira for the creation of God and Satan in the world-famous cartoon series The Simpsons, for serving coffee under Satan's command and for enforcing alcoholism. Turkey thus won the title of the first country in the world to punish a cartoon. I thank the Radio Television Oversight and Evaluation Agency for giving Turkey this pride, and I want to remind them that Simpsons is just a cartoon.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0016par0088	Thank you. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0018par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in health, the transformation continues to kill physicians. Today, we also lost our third physician friend. Dr. Ersin Arslan was murdered, Dr. Mustafa Icç died of a Crimean Congo infectious disease after being stabbed in the hand with a needle due to fatigue. And a few days ago, our MeIike Erdem friend committed suicide because of the intense working conditions and the complaints to SABIM (184) your line that killed the physician, and without any shame, authorities appeared, and on television, the media, he committed suicide because of it. We demand immediate removal of the SABIM, and I wish that the work be done... and the work be done... in the honor of the physician, in the honor of the health workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0019par0094	Thank you. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0020par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I offer my condolences, and I ask God for patience. The services providing transport education in the districts of Çanakkale have not been paid for nearly three months since the opening of schools. At this rate, this tradesman, who has made the purchases of diesels in advance, will be unable to buy diesel and shut down their contacts. For this, I ask why these funds are not paid, and when these drivers will be paid, and those involved must find a solution as soon as possible. Have a nice day.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0021par0101	Thank you. Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0022par0104	Mr. President, thank you. On December 3, 2012, I pray Almighty God that the Day of the disabled will be a blessing. There are many disabled people in Turkey. As there are many in Turkey, there are associations in our Adana, which have been established by the disabled, by the disabled. I'd like to thank you for helping the municipalities, the governorships, and so other organizations in terms of eliminating the victims of these disabled people.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0023par0107	Thank you. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0024par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow lawmakers, Turkey is shaken by the political scandal of the century after the corruption of the century. About 64,000 members of the Republican People's Party have been appointed members of the AKP with forged documents, forged signatures against their will. In Balıkesir, some 650 of our citizens, members of the Republican People's Party and 158 parties based in Balıkesir, have been wiped out with forged documents and unknowable documents. As you know, the 6th article of the Political Party's Law is also deleting members of our citizens who appear to be members of the two parties. Will the Justice Department and the Government, on the political scandal of this century, continue to protect, in fact, the rights to clean politics, clean morality, clean ethical policy in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0025par0113	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0026par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, my condolences. Under the initiative of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, a protocol was signed between the TURSAB-MTM Business Partnership and the private insurance company in November 2012. According to this protocol, since 1 October 2012, museum owners can have a year of fatal accident insurance. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary if there's been any research into whether our historical and cultural heritage will increase by federal accident insurance policies. What is the greater balance between protocol and the insurance company's earnings and public interest? Have any other insurance companies been interviewed before the protocol and offered a price? How many Museumkarts are targeted in total? How many Museumkart sales have been committed to the insurance company that the deal was made? In accordance with the agreement with the insurance company, how much of the card fee is given to the insurance company? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0027par0120	Thank you. Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0028par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. It's Miners' Day. Unfortunately, in mining accidents, our country, the first in Europe, the third in the world, is underprivileged. However, the bodies of the miners under the cave-in in Afshin-Elbia are still unaccounted for. When does the government plan to remove this? And today, Minister of Energy Taner Yildiz's plane did not land on Hewler, Erbil. Does it now plan to take the road from the land and from Habur? This is a new crisis. That's what we're wondering. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0029par0127	Thank you. Dear Ulupınar...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0030par0130	Mr. President, thank you. Congratulating the day of both our disabled and our miners, I believe that all lawmakers, all of us, will do well with the awareness of responsibility, I think we should do well. I, the deputy of Zonguldak, who has given thousands of martyrs, has given me mine martyrs, wish all of our miners, our disabled, health, peace, and long life. It's not the black creek of Zonguldak, it's coal land/this is how I say bread money is earned. My dad's a miner, too. In our family, we have lost many individuals both from mineral diseases and from accidents there, and hopefully, these accidents and deaths will never happen again. I wish them all a healthy, peaceful day. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0031par0137	Thank you. Mr. Oz...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0032par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask patience for your person and your family and God's mercy. Mr. President, we face the fact that despite the fact that the disabled have significant problems, we have not shown enough effort in economics, education and employment. I invite everyone to be sensitive about this; that's number one. In other words, in the urgent need of removal of the Health Ministry Communications Centre -- Hello 184 -- I hope it is clear that our last colleague, Dr. Melike Erdem Ma'am, who we lost, is dead. There is no greater benefit to this line than being a violent element on health workers. Here, again, to God's mercy to the deceased, to his family, and to all health workers. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0033par0146	Thank you. Mr. Steel...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0034par0149	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'd like to extend my condolences to all of our disabled citizens on the occasion of the week of the disabled. I wish to thank you and pay my respects for a year of non-warring and peaceful life to meet the social, cultural, democratic rights of our 10 million disabled citizens.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0035par0152	Thank you. Dear Sky...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0036par0155	Mr. President, on my way here, I, along with our Sincan county organization, came to visit the disabled associations in Sincan. Actually, the disabled only have one request. Our disabled friends claim that the obstacles in front of them were removed by the unstoppable, and that's the right approach. For example, they feel that many problems can be solved in local governments, such as the introduction of sidewalks to the battery vehicles, or the passing of our blind friends through traffic lights that run on the roads with more signaling systems, and a very important assessment is not filled with disability quotas in public and private sectors. As they are called, our disabled friends are facing unemployment problems. They wanted us to draw attention to these problems. I, too, present to the attention of our House and celebrate the week of the disabled.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0035par0156	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0037par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Again this weekend, the country's agenda was shaken with examples of violence against health workers and physicians. We were especially upset that a physician friend of ours was in prison to end his life because of the SABIM line. This SABIM line needs to be removed immediately. The Minister of Health needs to be sensitive about this, too. In addition, the government of violence against health care also needs to give up some of its mistakes. 13 medical students currently in Sincan Prison and 46 medical students on trial without arrest have cases tomorrow. And that's psychological violence on paramedics, and that shame has to be removed. Regarding that, I have here a message of success sent to these students by the Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of National Education. The Prime Minister sent a message... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...read it, think it, practice it, and conclude it. They've read it, thought it, and applied it, but they're in Sincan Prison now. The shame must be lifted at once.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0038par0164	Thank you. Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0039par0167	Mr. President, you know, with the arrival of imported animals, livestock has become a mess. Right now, because of the winter, people are in no condition to feed their animals. Now, they've put an end to animalism, so let's at least give people the opportunity to import hay right now. Companies import hay, sell it for $1 million. Now his cow makes 500 lira, 2 cows make 1 ton of hay. In this sense, I'm calling on the Minister of Agriculture, and I'm asking them to give the people who are animalizing in Eastern Anatolia some opportunities, and not the companies, but the farmers, in the import of this hay. Also, let the hay be encouraged this year; for the sake of faith, let the people be given money, winter, and let the people feed their animals until spring. I beg you, and I beg you very much.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0040par0171	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Erdemir... Mr. Clumsy, last word. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0041par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 21st century, there were villages in Amasya, with no roads asphalt, no drinking water. Our roads to the asphalt city, our village roads were made 30 years ago during the YSE period. Every winter, from the pits that sink like mines explode, our villagers are officially suffering at their arrival. The villagers do all sorts of stunts so they don't fall into these pits. In fact, these pits cause accidents. We have local elections ahead of us. I'd like to ask the government who turned villages and towns into neighborhoods: When will the road of our villages still be paved? When will drinking water be brought to our villages without drinking water? When will our broken paths be paved or patched again? When will our peasant's suffering end? Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0042par0180	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There's a review of the Commission for Human Rights and the Commission for Human Rights, and I'm going to have them read it and present it to you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with Article 3 of the Law on Public Controllership of 6328 and 14/6/2012, the Commission of the Council of the Commission for the Review of Human Rights and Human Rights Commissioners was convened on 28/11/2012 at 3:15 p.m., in accordance with the second joke of Article 11 of the Law and the second statement of the Interim 1st Amendment. The first vote is at 3:30 p.m., the second vote at 3:50 p.m., the third vote at 4:10 p.m., the final vote for the third round is at 18. The 0200 and 4th vote was held at 6:25 p.m. The secret vote voted in the 19th round of voting in the first round of the 18th round of the 3rd round of the 3rd round of the 18th and 3rd round of the 3rd round of the public auditor's candidate to reduce the number of public auditors to 2 people, and 19 votes in the final round of the 19th and 4th round of voting. Five candidates who received the most votes as a result of the draft of the current votes, whose names and last names are listed below, have been selected as public auditors. Your information is available. 1. Abdullah Cengiz Scissors Seventeen (17) vote 2. Mehmet Elkatmi 17 (17) votes 3. Zechariah Lion Seventeen (17) vote 4. Muhittin District 15 (15) 5. Sprinkle Fifteen (15) It has been presented to your knowledge. There are two motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In order to establish the minimum wage level's poorening effect on society, preventing the emerging labour gain, maximum social benefits of minimum wage, and reorganise the Constitution under right and justice, 98. And of the Civil Charter 104 and 105. We demand and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. A minimum wage application should target a level of wage that employees can live on as human beings. The minimum wage, which should be sufficient to meet food, housing, clothing, health, transportation, and cultural activities with the worker's family, is today condemning a large percentage of society to misery. In modern law, every citizen has a right to a certain income. From the beginning of modern production relations, the trade union rights struggle given by working parties has been aimed at boosting the amount of production to the benefit of labour due to the fact that labor is a subject in the production process. For years, the minimum wage struggle, which has been the main area of action in the trade union struggles, has been one of the biggest struggles against labour exploitation and social injustice in modern Turkey. Today, there are more than 3 million minimum wage in our country. It is estimated that the population affected by the minimum wage, along with the population that these people are obliged to care for, is about 20 million. The minimum wage level is gross 886.50 liras, net 701 liras, according to January 2012. The poverty limit in Turkey today is $3,63, and the hunger limit is $940, according to studies by labour unions based on the level of income that a family of four can provide. According to these figures, the minimum wage level is even below the hunger limit. Given that 20 million citizens are affected by minimum wage in society, poverty in Turkey has reached a rather tragic level. The minimum wage is one of the clearest indicators of the level of labour exploitation in a country. After the 1980 military coup, there were real setbacks in minimum wage. The labour exploitation of the military coup has led to the fact that the social production of the AKP's power today is the basis for the policy of attracting only certain capital parts. According to labour unions' research, efficiency per person working from 2005 to 2010 has increased by 14%, while no improvement has been made in real minimum wage. Again, the real increase in minimum wage between 2005-2011 was only 4%, while economic growth during this period was 26%, according to official data. If economic growth had been fully reflected in the minimum wage since 2005, there would have been another net 138 lira increase in minimum wage today. The minimum salary in Turkey is observed at levels 33 years ago. Today, however, Turkey's economy has grown by three and a half times with fixed prices, while the minimum wage has actually increased by only 6%. The net minimum wage in Turkey today is around 265 euros, while even Greece is around 876 euros. Today, he can spend only $2.8 per meal on minimum wage. The AKP government, who boasted of making Turkey the world's 16th largest economy, could not account for our being 92nd in 187 countries, as the United Nations Human Development Index tried to conceal the resources of its exploitation today. The gap of income between the poor and the rich in Turkey is increasing day by day, resulting in relative poverty deepening social injustice. The social and cultural destruction caused by the minimum wage being so low in our country is causing difficult social trauma to repair with it. A person who works for a minimum wage should not read their children properly, while today feeding the chain of intergenerational poverty further, deepening and deepening the spiral of poverty. It's imperative that the House make arrangements to bring this matter to its agenda immediately. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In connection with the "Uludere/Roboski massacre," which took place on December 28, 2011, 35 of our citizens lost their lives, we would like the Constitution to be open and negotiated under Article 98-99 and Article 104 of the Article. On 28 December 2011, Uludere Gülyuz/Robesk Turkey-Lrak border 9:30-22 p.m. In the bombing of 4 F-16s from Turkish warships between 27 and 25, 35 of our citizens were also severely injured. Eyewitnesses have stated that they had gone in military knowledge, that when they returned to a place close to the border, the soldier had cut them off in two groups, that the soldier had withdrawn and the fighter planes had started bombing in this way. Before the incident, the villagers were on the phone with their children and the commander for an hour and a half. Although it was known by authorities that the group was unarmed and civilian, the massacre took place. After the bombing, an ambulance was not sent to the aircraft/helicopter, although the authorities were warned. According to a joint report by IHD, Mazlum-Der, TTB, KESK, TMMOB and other NGOs, 13 injured in the case were killed as a result of no help. The villagers faced a gruesome, creepy mass murder that immediately arrived at the scene with ambulances belonging to the BDP and municipalities. Officials haven't been on the scene for a day. The way the bombs were targeted, the decomposition, the burning of the bodies, the destruction of all the living beings there are clear signs that the operation was done consciously, plannedly, cognitively. It was broadcast via social media at the time of the incident, and Roj TV broadcasts live from the scene at the time of the incident, with immediate narratives of witnesses and those at the scene, preventing cover-up. The prime minister's press advisers stopped them from calling the media, and after 12 hours of press, unilateral publications began after the General Staff's statement. On December 29th, the BDP co-chairs and parliamentary delegation were present at the scene, where funerals were taken to the village and to the hospital. The attorneys of the Şırnak Bar have been in charge of the autopsy until morning. Şırnak Governors, police chiefs, commanders, their families gathered the elders of the villages several times, pressuring them not to act together on the removal, burial, and condolences. After parents said that their children were killed together, that they would be buried together, and that their condolences would be made together, the funerals were buried with the participation of tens of thousands. From the moment of the incident, the BDP Group Deputy President called the Prime Minister, the Minister of Interior and the Ministry of Justice, who had been told that they were in Islam, and never returned. After 27 hours, the Prime Minister made a misleading statement to the public, his deputy, Steel, and the ministers tried to cover it up. They've been trying to get it down to a simple business accident, to exonerate the responsible. The Chief of General Staff has tried to avoid responsibility by creating information pollution in public, saying that it is connected to the MIT Prime Minister and reviewing four-hour images of drones. In the face of such a massacre in a democratic legal state, ministers, those who can't show such virtue while governments resign, are trying to justify perpetrators by compensation/blood money to cover up the case. According to TK 76-77 Articles and Article 90 of the Constitution, there is a crime against humanity against international contracts, international contracts, UN documents, a planned, preconceived mass murder. The intelligence weakness, the government's decision, the people who carried out the decision, has been forced to open a parliamentary investigation into responsible officials. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion to open a general meeting, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose a general discussion on developments in Turkey-Fransa relations. With all due respect. 1) Text Lütfi Baydar [[Aydın]] 2) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[Edirne]] [[Antalya]] 5) Fatma Nur Serker [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Manisa]] [[Mughle]] [[Aydın]] [[Aydın]] [[Scholarship]] 12) Ali Haydar Proposes [[Isparta]] [[Scholarship]] [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 16) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] [[Sakarya]] [[Scholarship]] 19) Mustafa Serdar Soydan [[Çanakkale]] 20) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] Turkey-Fransian relations, whose foundations could be taken back to the days of Sultan Süleyman, appear to have entered a difficult process for various reasons in recent years. The solution to these problems, largely due to lack of vision and prejudices in French and Turkish foreign policy, will be even more difficult with a bill envisioning 45,000 euros and a year in prison for those who now pass through the National Assembly and deny the so-called Armenian genocide sent to the Senate. Therefore, French politicians and statesmen must quickly return from this historic error. Three important issues arise at the heart of the problems Turkey-Fransa relations have experienced in recent years. In the past, France, which had a large number of terrorist activities and had a significant Armenian population, created a law in 2001 that first recognized the so-called Armenian genocide on the basis of events in 1915. The law was strongly condemned by statesmen of the age, some economic measures were tried to take, but these measures did not produce any serious results. This time in 2006, the proposed law, which called denial of the so-called Armenian genocide, was brought to the National Assembly in France, but the proposal for the law on rising reactions from Turkey was prevented from being introduced in the Senate. Following this process, relations that softened with mutual contact have been re-excited by various later developments, and have reached the breaking point as the same law proposal is now on the agenda. From the time French President Nicolas Sarkozy came to power (16 May 2007) it has been observed that France is more nationalist in its domestic and foreign policy. This naturally reflects negatively on Turkey-Fransa relations. In particular, Sarkozy's saying that he does not want to see Turkey within the EU because it is not a "European" can be seen as a negative attitude that determines the future of relations between the two countries. In his book Nicolas Sarkozy Testimony, Nicolas explained the basic parameters of Turkey's opposition to EU membership. First of all, Sarkozy argues that 98% of Turkey's territory is off the continent of Europe, arguing that Turkey will have the highest population rate of EU members in the event of membership. Beyond the population density, Islamic culture within the EU would damage the idea of the founding fathers of the EU forming political unity, he says. At this point, Sarkozy says it will exceed the limits of courtesy if it is too late to tell the Turks that they cannot join the EU. Sarkozy opposes further EU volume, because he is concerned that France will lose its power after the accession of a country with a large population and a large population, such as Turkey. Turkey's EU accession has long been discussed in France's public opinion. French President Sarkozy adopted an attitude towards Turkey's EU membership. In this framework, France prevents the opening of five chapters to talks. The Arab Spring process, which has been effective in Arab geography for nearly a year, has brought Turkey and France to face the future of various countries, including Tunisia and Libya. France, which has tight relations with the Tunis regime of Zeynel Abidin Bin Ali and historically has close ties with this country, felt in a difficult position because Turkey was the first country to deliver anti-Bin Ali revolutionary movements, and was the leading force of NATO bombings in Libya, with heavy investments in Turkey and thousands of working-man populations in order to take the rematch. France is deeply disturbed that Turkey has stepped up and stepped up its influence in this process because of its historical ties to the European Union, which is found to be extremely difficult to establish a common foreign policy and cannot be significantly effective in the Middle East. This should be seen as an important factor in breaking relationships. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The prediction of whether or not to open a general meeting will be held at the appropriate time. Mr. Kokturk, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0043par0301	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, my condolences to you and your family. As we all know, December 4th is the Day of the Miners of the Earth. Zonguldak was also a very small settlement, and after the discovery of stone coal, it grew rapidly and flourished and became the first province of our republic in 1924. In the process, our miners, mine workers, have contributed greatly to both Zonguldak and our country's economy. But in business accidents hundreds of feet below the ground, there were about 5,000 miners killed in gray. For this reason, on the Day of the Miners of December 4th, I once again remember all of our mine martyrs with heartfelt gratitude, respect, and gratitude. I also wish our working mining workers healthy, successful work. Again, I sincerely celebrate the week of the disabled.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0044par0306	Thank you. The Commission for Assembly Research, number 256, 257, 258, has a thesis on the extension of the Commission's mandate, which has been established in an effort to determine the measures needed to be taken by Investigating Increased Violence Events for Health Employees (10/49, 113, 118, 252, 253, 254, 255, 256, 257, 258): Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In accordance with the decision of our Commission, which began its work on 19,06,2012, at its meeting of 29,11,2012, I respectfully request that its mandate be extended a month from 14.12,2012, under the second joke of Article 105 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The commission, which failed to complete its investigation within three months, is given a month's notice. The Commission has been given an additional month according to the decree. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Advisory Board on Tuesday 4,12,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Council. On May 09, it was suggested that the Council of Assembly Research Convention, which was given to the Grand National Assembly on the basis of other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, should be read in the same date in the presentation of "the problems of individuals whose number is 8.5 million," given by İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends (1016 rows) in Turkey. In favor of the Peace and Democracy Group Proposal, Sebahat Tuncel is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0045par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I begin, my condolences to you and your family. Dear lawmakers, because of December 3rd World Day of the disabled, we have actually started to talk about the problems of the disabled. This is a serious problem. In fact, we would like to remind you once again that in every aspect of our lives, not just in one day, there are disabled people in our lives, and that we need to look at a policy that will make life easier for the disabled, but unfortunately in this Parliament, we only talk about women on March 8th, on December 3rd, we talk about disabled people, and here we talk about miners on December 4th; this tradition should be abandoned. Society has to establish a whole life order according to this. Today, today, the percentage of disabled people in the world is 15%. That's 15 percent according to the World Health Organization's data. In the 1970s, it was 10 percent. In Turkey, about 12.29 per cent of the population is disabled. The ratio of men is 11.10 per cent here, and the ratio of women is 13.45 per cent. In Turkey, the disabled need to document themselves as 40 per cent disabled in order to benefit from state opportunities, otherwise they do not benefit from state opportunities. However, according to the ILO Convention, the rate is at 11 per cent. Precious lawmakers, in fact, the basis of the approach to the disabled is a little bit from our mentality, from our point of view, because we often view the disabled as poor, weak, and we look at them more through an approach, such as that in our life, whether it's in the family, their life is easier to own them, whether it's in the public life, whether it's in life, whether it's more effective as a job, or as an individual. So the language we use is based on this, and we don't often call it a barrier, we often call it an apology, so even this language itself has to do with how we approach it. Such are the laws made in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Let's say, for example, we're doing a blockage for the disabled, according to ISKUR, or according to regulations, and not on how the disabled participate in the more active life, but on an approach to this disadvantaged situation, we're developing them, once we need to change that mentality. Secondly, the job issue of disabled persons is a serious problem, and a 3% quota is applied at workplaces in Turkey, but these quotas have never been implemented. Even according to ISKUR data, 12,326 is applied in the public institution and 73,719 is applied in the private sector, so there are a total of 24,758 empty disabled quotas, including 1,232 in the public sector, and 23,526 in the private sector, as opposed to Article 30 of Business Law 4857. There are certain sanctions. It might be said here that there are some sanctions, how to do something about it, but these sanctions aren't preventive, so it's important to follow a reverse policy, perhaps to follow a policy that encourages the work of the disabled, that encourages both the private sector and the public sector, because punishment, unfortunately, so far, does not require that this matter be resolved. Again, the problem with the disability is that they receive every three months in this country, from 243 to 365 dollars, not even minimum wage. What this House needs to do is, if it wants to do a job for the disabled, at least get a minimum wage assessment. Another issue, valued lawmakers, in fact, is the education of the disabled at these rehabilitation centers. There's a very serious problem here, too. Rehab centers have become more of a Rant area. There are so many rehabilitation centers in Turkey that these rehabilitation centers are not supervised; are they really right for what they want, what is happening there, if it really makes life easier for the disabled, there is nothing. But there are serious rights violations here, serious problems. For example, there was a problem with Batman, and the abuse of those who worked at the institution against the disabled was publicized. This is how it's controlled, what the result of this audit is, it's never been done. As representatives of the Peace and Democracy Party bloc, we think that the conditions for living in a more viable society in particular should be investigated. Again, we care that these rehabilitation centres must be investigated, audited, and that a new arrangement here is not based on Ranta, but in an approach that will actually remove obstacles to the disabled. Otherwise, we're just going to be talking about the disabled here, and we're going to be dealing with them. This will not change, and for that, we will first start with the mentality -- we will remove obstacles in this mentality, because the problem in this country is not with the disabled, but with the disabled. This is a serious problem in Turkey unless it changes. Again, there are valuable lawmakers, especially those who are disabled during times of war or conflict. This is also a serious problem in Turkey. There are people who have been seriously injured, especially from a mine explosion, and they're injured. For example, there are no steps to be taken, and Turkey needs to be seriously changed. As a result, in Turkey, it is important to investigate whether the disabled in particular, the disabled in their working life, the disabled in their work accident, those exposed to war and conflict, and whether the rehabilitation centers are really working properly on the removal of these obstacles. Hopefully, political party groups will look for a place that will make life easier for the disabled. Dear lawmakers, the 3rd December has another significance. Today, the BDP Group also stated that on December 3rd, the anniversary of the bombing of the Free Country newspaper -- 1994. And here, a press worker named Ersin Yıldız lost his life. We, once again, salute all the press workers in this friend's person, and I want to express it. This is a serious problem. There's still a Kurdish problem in Turkey, maybe the newspaper buildings aren't being bombed, but journalists are still being arrested, the press is still not free, there's a serious embargo on the press, there's a political embargo. There was a similar situation in the 1990s. In the 1990s, political power, in fact, was the one who spoke about the Kurdish problem, the one who spoke about the Kurdish problem, the Kurd problem, the Kurds, the Kurds, the Kurds, the Kurds, the Kurds, the Kurds, they had language, identity, culture. Today in 2012, unfortunately, the same mentality continues, perhaps the newspaper buildings are not bombed, but journalists continue to be arrested. The main reason for this is the Kurdish problem, which is not solved in this country. In this regard, the AKP, CHP, the MPP, unfortunately stands at the same point, and in the face of a serious state reflex... Today, the issue of the Kurdish issue, particularly education in the native language, defence in the native language and recognition of Kurdish identity rights, is still a forbidden issue here, and we cannot discuss them. I especially want to mean something to the main opposition party here. If we really don't want the '90s to happen again, if we want the Kurdish problem to be solved in this country, then we will express our approach to the Kurdish problem. A social democracy, which says no to defence in the main language, will, in fact, mean that this war is continuing the conflict. The approach of power on this issue is very clear. So we think you have a particular approach to arresting and lowering your voice with political operations under the name of TK. There's a press case for the ACK, there's a student case for the ACK, there's a thing about the CK. For example, a member of the CHP has made a press statement for the medical students' trial tomorrow, but do our CHP friends think: Why are medical students on trial? It's from the ACK case. Why? They're Kurds. What do these Kurds stand for? They say: "We want education in the mother tongue. We want defences in the native language. We want democratic autonomy. But does the Republican People's Party have one word for it? No. When it comes to defence issues in the native language, the university structure breaks down.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0046par0347	Sebahat Hanım, is it a crime to help them? Is it a crime to help a student? Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0045par0348	It's not a crime to help the student, but it's important to explain why those students are being tried. So, if the Republican People's Party is really with the students, if they're with the people who are being tried in the press case, here's what they should do: yes, there are Kurdish people in this country, the Kurdish people have rights. Therefore, the right of this people to study in the main language is the basic right to defend in the native language. The AKP government must come to this. It must be based on an approach called the AKP government. Unfortunately, the AKP's assessments of the individual language, one nation, one religion, one religion, and the CHP supports its approach from the left -- in fact, it is a left-wing approach to the AKP's policy, which, in a serious sense, persists in this policy of war, by supporting its persistent policy in the left. We call from here to this Parliament once again: this country has a problem, the Kurdish problem. Everyone has to review their own approach to the solution to this problem once again. Otherwise, it won't happen just by criticizing power. We'd like to rephrase that. If we really don't want freedom of the press to disappear again... if we don't find out who ordered the bombing of the Free Country newspaper on December 3rd... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It won't reveal who ordered the roboski massacre. I think once again our motion should be taken into consideration. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0047par0355	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0048par0356	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0049par0357	Sir, Mr. Hatip has spoken to the Republican People's Party about bullying. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0047par0358	What did he say and pick on you? Say it again.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0049par0359	Sir, the Republican People's Party is not with the students...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0050par0360	I didn't say it wasn't. I didn't say it was.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0049par0361	...The Republican People's Party had to support the proposal, at least, about education in the native language.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0051par0362	Mr. Tanal, these are not taunts. Two minutes, I promise.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0049par0364	Sir, we're having a party...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0051par0365	Please...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0049par0366	He explained our party in a hurtful manner, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0051par0367	Mr. Tanal, come in, come in. Two minutes, I promise. Not teasing, Mr. Tanal, but two minutes due to bullying... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0052par0372	Dear President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Republican People's Party has so far referred to the European Convention on Human Rights, referred to by the Republican People's Party by the European Court of Human Rights. I'm a Turkish citizen, a Kurdish man. In Turkey, Kurds are no one's monopoly. In this sense, the right to defend is further backward than the existing Convention on Human Rights, which the AKP and the BDP have done. Why is it going backwards? It doesn't cover the investigation phase, it's being arranged after the prosecution process, after the indictment has been filed.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0053par0374	How do you feel about education in the native language?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0052par0375	So, how does our non-defensive citizen testify in the police, the D.A.'s office?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0054par0376	That's right, let's fix it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0052par0377	The Republican People's Party's proposal is that if he can't defend himself, the defence will be brought to the end of the investigation... for both the victim and the witness, but the arrangement brought together by the AKP and the BDP is only for the defendant. For the defendant, he accepts the stage after the indictment has been passed. So why isn't the defendant, the victim, the witness, the defendant, brought to the stage before the indictment was admitted?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0055par0378	What do you say to primary language education, Mr. Tanal?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0052par0379	In this sense, the AKP and the BDP are deceiving the public on defence, not telling the public the truth. It is our basic guide to the third joke of the European Convention on Human Rights (e) of Article 6 of Article 6 (e) that should be in the union of this work and action, if one, for the victim and the suspect, can not explain to the police from the first moment he fell. What do we say when there's a right violation? We call our primary goal the European Court of Human Rights, we call it the European Convention on Human Rights, we call it the European Court of Human Rights decisions.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0056par0381	Okay, let's fix it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0057par0382	Make a suggestion, we'll fix it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0052par0383	That's our reference, but the AKP and BDP offer is far behind the existing legislation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0058par0386	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Candan Üşeker, Tekirdağ MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0059par0392	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the establishment of a parliamentary research commission to investigate the problems of our disabled citizens. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin by thanking all those who put their hard work, their hard work, their heart, their heart to overcome these obstacles, the associations, the NGOs, even though the government and Parliament are responsible for the problems of our disabled citizens in our country. Being disabled is a constant fact of all times and societies. The disability is often burdened by its family with its own. Among the measures of a country's level of development are its importance to its disabled. Regardless of any distinction, language, religion, race, gender, or disability, all of our citizens must be allowed to benefit and exist equally in social, political, and working life. It is our citizens' right to adapt to social life and working life, to live in a way worthy of human dignity, regardless of physical and mental barriers. This basic human right must be considered in all areas, regardless of the obstacle, the disability rate. It is important to facilitate the lives of disabled persons and make sure that investments in their needs are made. In order to improve the quality of our disabled citizens' lives, your social responsibility, being a social state, above all, must be fulfilled. Despite the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disabled Rights and the positive discrimination of our Constitution for disabled citizens, it has not been introduced to the disabled problem because of a right-based understanding of aid, not based on rights. Today, too, the disabled are remembered only on certain days and times. Unfortunately, there is still much to be done in our country to ensure that the disabled can be joined in economic, social and political life as equal citizens. Now, we have to accept the fact that our country has a disability issue that should not be ignored, and we have to face it, and we're even too late to face it. We've always asked the disabled to be invisible, to stay in their homes, to leave them alone with their problems, their obstacles. It's still not a good view these days. And today we don't have disabled citizens on the street, in the park, in the street, in workplaces, in social areas. 12.29 per cent of our population is disabled, so we have 8.5 million disabled citizens in our country. It is estimated that the number of disabled citizens that make up the quietest and most invisible majority of Turkey is around 30 million, along with their families. I'm just saying it's predictable because unfortunately there's no reliable database on the number of disabled people. Since many countries, including our country, do not have statistics on disabled persons, the World Health Organization uses estimates. When you look at the world average of 7.5, that's a very high number. Unfortunately, this number increases every hour every day due to preventable diseases and accidents. When researching the reasons for disability, the vast majority of them appear to be preventable processes, such as genetic factors, family marriage, and problems during pregnancy. It is a constitutional obligation for our disabled people, who are approaching 10 million, to have equal treatment, to maintain their lives without need of others, and to be part of the community. These figures clearly show how quickly we need to act on the work that will be done regarding the urgency of the matter. Whereas the disabled do not want mercy, they want the rights of this country as equal individuals. The obstacle is politics that can't solve this problem. The esteemed MPs had been hopeful in 2005 about the Retarded Act. Under the Act on Absorbeds No. 5378 issued in 2005, all public institutions, including municipalities, were given seven years to organise all roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, official structures, open spaces, green areas, sports areas and similar sociocultural infrastructure and areas in such a way that the disableds could benefit from. On July 7, 2012, the deadline was extended to July 7, 2015. What prevents us from crossing these barriers, for God's sake, or is it not our priority? Is it really so difficult for our country to overcome these obstacles? Of course it's not hard. In fact, the only obstacle in a person's heart and mind is justice, equality, democracy, human rights, love. I guess we just can't get over it. One of the most important things about being a modern, modern state is to develop the rights of disabled individuals, to improve their abilities and potential, to ensure that they have equal opportunities, to address their problems in every field from education to health, employment to transportation. Our disabled citizens have the right to education, employment, social life, the right to fit in with the physical environment and rehabilitation. There are elections ahead, but have we taken the necessary measures to reflect the will of our disabled citizens into the chest? We didn't. There was a story in the papers today, and I think a lot of you read it. At the age of fifty-one, Solomon Eryiğit sentenced the High Election Board to pay $5,000 in spiritual compensation in the case of the Supreme Election Board for failing to use the vote because the Ark was on the 3rd floor, even though he registered himself as a member of the electorate in the last general election. Our citizen himself has overcome the obstacle to the right to participate in political life. One of the main problems of disabled people is education, employment, accessibility. Close to 80 percent of the disabled are not part of the labor force. The disabled employment in our country is largely sought with quotas, but when you look at the quotas, public institutions, in the private sector, show that these quotas are not met. While these staffs are kept idle, many of our disabled citizens -- more than 100,000 -- are on their way to İSKUR. How can he trust a government that doesn't even meet its quotas? Why don't you open these staffs to the disabled labor force? These staffs need to be opened to the disabled labor force, our citizens. Employment should not only be considered a financial resource for disabled citizens. Employment is the most important tool for our disabled citizens to participate in social life. We see that spending for disabled persons does not support the participation of disabled people in social life, however, that more than 70 per cent go to social benefits and salaries. However, it is not supported by prevention of disability, employment, rehabilitation, the participation of disabled people in social life. See, in 2004, the government announced the number of disabled people at 8.5 million, and in 2008, the Prime Minister's report announced the number at 1,673,550. So 6 million 758,387 people just disappeared. In July 2006, when Responsibility Reports were changed, millions of disabled became unstoppable on a night. Later, our citizens entered the KPSS, wanted to become officers, and this time they didn't get a good report. People couldn't decide whether our citizens were disabled or sound. Then they were changed again. Dear MPs, the hunger limit is $958, the poverty limit is $3,120. The figures given in Turkey, our disability pensions, unfortunately, are less than half the minimum wage. How will this enable the disabled to adapt to social life, social life? Health problems are another problem for the disabled. One of the most important problems of the disabled, as you know, is that our citizens, who report less than 40 per cent of the disability rate in health reports, are out of all rights. This creates inequality among our disabled citizens. In order to repair this inequality, additional payments must be made to the institution's budgets, including this section. If we want an equal and free life in all areas of life, we need to make the lives of disabled citizens in public institutions, private sectors, all physical areas our top priority. We need to be aware that for the construction of an unstoppable and equal Turkey, the main aim of policies for the disabled is to work to ensure that our disabled citizens will not be helpless. It is not a destiny to be disabled, but with simple measures, the lives of our disabled citizens can be restored to normal, a form worthy of human dignity. So without preventing domestic violence, killings against women, freedom of expression, without providing human rights, without bringing the disabled, the woman, the elderly, the child to the quality of human life, you can neither speak of advanced democracy nor boast about what you've done here. I give you all my love and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0060par0409	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a group proposal in favour of Mesut Dedeoğlu and Kahramanmarash MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0061par0412	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss whether or not the problems of the disabled should be raised. I hereby salute your high council. In our country, lawmakers are trying to survive as disabled by 12 per cent of our country's population, according to the latest data. In our country, there are 3,733,000 men of the 8.5 million disabled population, 4 million 648 thousand women disabled citizens. The total number of disabled men is 11.1, and the ratio of the disabled women is 13.4. Also, 12.69 per cent of the disabled population live in cities and 11.67 per cent live in rural areas. The number of disabled people in the world has exceeded 500 million. In this regard, data show that in many lands, 1 percent of every 10 people in the world are disabled due to physical or mental disorders. For this reason, regulations on disabled persons are co-organised by all countries with various international agreements. The arrangements for the disabled worldwide should be taken into account, including travel and tourism. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the issue has already been made clear in international agreements on the rights of the disabled. The agreements, where Turkey is on their side, require that all disabled persons benefit from human rights and freedoms in full, equal way, and that they be encouraged and provided to strengthen the dignity of mankind. In this direction, obstacles should be eliminated for disabled persons to access physical, social, economic and cultural environments, education and health care. There are all kinds of studies in our country about the full use of human rights and basic freedoms for disabled persons, and they have the right to do so. Let's not forget, we're all a liability potential. I'm afraid none of this has ever been done in our country. It is not only possible for the disabled to be integrated with the community, to benefit from basic rights and freedoms in order to sustain their lives; it is a duty to all parts of society, especially the state, to be integrated by their disabled and disabled families. Integration can only be achieved with the participation of all segments. This integration in our country has not been fully achieved until now, I'm afraid. The government's efforts on this matter are unfortunately inadequate. Lawmakers, services such as education, employment and rehabilitation for disabled persons remain very poor investments in our country. The Law on the disabled in 2005 and the Law on the disabled were envisioned for various arrangements. Under these regulations, official structures belonging to public institutions and organisations were planned to be appropriate for the disabled to access all roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green areas, sports areas, social and cultural infrastructure areas. The government gave public institutions seven years to organise and invest in this issue. The period ended on July 7, 2012. The government has found its seven-year deadline for editing and investments to be scarce and has again asked for a three-year extension. He spent seven years with almost no investments and regulations on disabled persons and no support for municipalities. The government extends the deadline for another three years, with the deadline for the arrangements, for now, July 7th, 2015. Mr. President, with this extension, the government has put our disabled back in their homes and imprisoned them. Clearly, the disabled are told not to go out for another three years. Paramedics who can't walk in the streets and streets, who can't use public transportation, who can't go to public institutions and institutions, continue to get caught in obstacles. A 2010 study by the Turkish Statistical Agency has made clear the shortcomings of the disabled in our country. 63.9% of the respondents in the research have noted that the buildings in which they live have had problems with transportation and movement within the building. Again, 66.9% of the respondents have expressed that the road, footway, and crosswalk arrangements are not appropriate. Another question about organizing disabled persons in public buildings is that 54.8 per cent of participants are not appropriate. They have answered. As you can see from these research results -- as in many matters -- the government has failed to make arrangements for the disabled. He couldn't keep his disabled citizens in power for ten years alone. The word has failed, and the word has failed the disabled. We need to provide more opportunities for the sports of all four disabled groups. We should give appreciation for their grades in Europe, the World and the Paralympic Games. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, today in our country, our disabled are in great trouble even reaching the wheelchair and the white cane. I'm afraid our disabled are looking for a blue cover to buy a wheelchair and a battery chair. Instead of a government without hope, blue lids are the hope of the disabled. The government must save the disabled from collecting blue caps by facilitating the transportation of disabled citizens to wheelchairs and electric cars. First of all, we have the obligation to work together on this. The length of time made by the government has upset our disabled. In fact, if the government had been on top of these issues, there would have been a large number of regulations on the disabled by now. It seems the government doesn't want to study. At this rate, we don't think this three-year period will be enough. The government, which is on its way to an extension on the arrangements for the disabled, has also saved itself from huge compensations because after 7 July 2012, the disabled were granted compensation for high sidewalks. Thus, the government is free of compensation by going to the extension. In our country, the disabled suffer greatly in many matters, such as education, health, employment, sports and rehabilitation. All arrangements and investments should be taken into account, considering the fact that 12 percent of our population consists of disabled people. Mr. President, it's very important that our valued lawmakers provide the means to facilitate the lives of disabled citizens within the community and bring them to life immediately. Our disabled citizens face enormous obstacles every day in the street and in everyday life. Inadequate regulations in our country make it difficult for our disabled citizens to act alone on the sidewalks. Public transport vehicles, airports, subgates and overpasses must be improved by arrangements made with parks and gardens. The regulations in official and private institutions must also be accelerated. In this way, our disabled citizens need to be able to move freely around life. Our disabled citizens experience the level of education, rehabilitation and life frame, as well as their biggest problem in all areas of employment. Most of our disabled citizens are now, unfortunately, unemployed. I salute your grand delegation with the wish of an unstoppable world.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0062par0427	Thank you. Adıyaman MP Muhammad Mortaza Yırk, who has asked to be spoken against by the Peace and Democracy Party group.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0063par0430	Mr. President, dear friends, we celebrate this day, first of all, of our disabled brothers and sisters who live in our entire country, and hopefully, we'll all see, together, the rise in the quality of the life of the disabled, who are increasingly social life, who are involved in political life, who are involved in social life. First of all, I have to hand over a right to Mr. Tucson, who presented the group's proposal here, he said, "Right now, the real problem in Turkey is a mental problem. No political opinion, no party, no difference, we all have to go through this process together. As a matter of fact, I'll also have a thank you, which means there's no need to go too far. Even while he was here talking about his group proposal, he devoted seven minutes of ten minutes of his time to the subject of the motion, but in three minutes, he took it to another subject. Now, if I do a poll like this, it's probably in the minds of our friends that we're left with the content of the group proposal, or the defence in the language, the CK issue, the friction with the CHP, we can see it very well from here. I mean, most of us, or some of us, are just pretending to be interested, pretending to be interested, pretending to be very relevant, but when we get to the field, we can see that it's not even remotely relevant. Now, dear friends, we're actually getting to know our government a lot better together with the AK PARTY government. You know, in the Constitution, the first part of the Constitution is about the qualities of the republic, and the qualities of our republic about secularism, social law. Now, we all know about secularism, and it's a very well-spoken subject, and we've memorized it, but we've started to understand that this state, this republic, is a social state, and we've started to understand it through the actions of the AK PARTI governments. So our people, our citizens, have begun to feel what a social state should do in the field of disability as well as in every field, and in its life as well. Now, in the referendum process, with Candan Hanım finding out again about this matter, you know, there was a positive discrimination clause in the package of constitutional amendments. Well, look, you're talking about it here. I mean, who brought up this positive discrimination and who stood up to it, and we need to talk about this. And as our last speaker stated, we don't even have to talk about where we came from at the Paralympic Olympics, because we all have many examples like this. Until yesterday, we are in a position that doesn't even know what paralympics are, and today we are winning first place in both the Paralympic Olympics worldwide and at the point of our basketball teams, both the world and the European Championships. It's not all by accident, of course. Now, dear friends, we have achieved a very important gain on this field, and we are working together at the point of adequate implementation of the field from that day to this day, by removing the Law of the disabled in 2005. In particular, serious distances have been made regarding the care of our disabled, rehabilitation, education, vocational education, employment. And you also know that there's been a lot of talk about employment here, but no one says: "How did the public drop these 45,000 quotas to 20,000? Why did we buy it with 45 grand? No one talks about it. Just a few months ago, with an OMSS test -- unique to our disabled citizens -- their disability situation -- as well as an examination of our disabled friends, our brothers, and their public employment. Here -- I think it's very important -- a serious number like 4,500 is currently being employed, and in the coming days, in 2013, there's also another amount of employment planned in public. Again, the quotas have been increased in public or private sector labor status, as you know for employment in the quota. Now, there's an app that we're doing to this. One of our friends mentioned that these quotas weren't filled especially because he didn't have an employer. We probably don't know that right now, every firm in the private sector that doesn't meet the quota is being given criminal action, and in return for that amount of money, they're all being saved in a trust fund, and they're being spent on professional training for the disabled. Currently, a number of vocational studies, courses are being conducted throughout Turkey, along with NGOs. They are encouraged, encouraged by the institution and its organisation, as well as by providing a daily allowance for the students involved in this course. Therefore, no one with a conscience can claim that today's day is worse than yesterday. Maybe there's a lot to talk about, but I'm not going to extend it because there's a lot of laws that our House will talk about, and there's a lot of laws that it'll do, and there's work to do. Of course yesterday's gonna be different than today, and that's when the AK PARTY government made the difference. We believe tomorrow will be much better than today. I hereby declare that I will vote against the group proposal by saluting the entire House. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0064par0442	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0065par0443	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0066par0444	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0064par0445	What did he say and pick on you, Mr. Tuncel?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0066par0446	Mr. Orator said what I said was false information.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0064par0447	Here you go. I promise you two minutes because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0066par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. In the proposal that the disabled should be placed in the field of employment in particular... yes, the law has been passed, and there are major penalties for implementing the 3% quota. What I'm saying is that it's not a question of punishment, but there's a serious gap in the private sector and the public sector. Close to 25,000 disabled quotas are now vacant. Which means we can't solve it just by punishing him. So I said, let's look at it from the opposite direction. What is it? We, for example, make positive discrimination or incentives for the development of female employment, positive incentives. You can also encourage disabled persons. What could that be? For example, let's say that the state can take over the taxes of the workplaces, let's say that special measures can be taken to places where the disabled are employed because that's how Turkey works. So there's a problem, whether you punish me or the fines are high. The private sector still doesn't meet its quota, it's disabled, or you apply 3 percent of it in places with 50 employees at work. But I'll tell you about Istanbul. In many places, there are 20 or 30 people working in such places as six stairs, so there is trouble here. So you can't run a handicap around here. So 3 per cent of this quota can be given by incentives to these small businesses, not just where there are 50 workers, but where they can subtract 50 and apply them everywhere. Otherwise, there is no such punishment. Secondly, no inspection. This inspection must be ensured. Why isn't it applied, and why shouldn't it be implemented in public and private sectors? I'm saying that it's possible not to have a disabled life, to remove obstacles in our mental state, to change our view of the disabled. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0067par0456	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0068par0457	Mr. President, there was a bullying against our group. After the speech made by Sebahat Hanım (Sebahat) regarding these disabled persons, she was accused of taking three minutes to another topic.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0067par0458	Mr. Tuncel has already responded.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0069par0459	No, he didn't say anything about it, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0068par0460	I'm in the name of the group...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0067par0461	Here you go, Mr. Bauken. Two minutes, I promise, for bullying. But let's not get fresh with this, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0068par0464	Thank you, Mr. President. While he was speaking here, he stated that Sebahat Hanım had been talking about her proposal for seven minutes, and that the last three minutes had been expressed here as another trivial matter, and that the BDP Group was actually engaged in an activity as if they were not interested in problems, problems of the disabled. For one thing, this definition is wrong from beginning to end. When you look at the last three minutes, our orator friend, our congressman, has expressed his opinion on a subject about the trial of medical students. Our fellow MP speaking on behalf of the AKP here is also a physician. We'd like 46 med students tomorrow to have just one sentence to say about the trial of shame in the history of this country. These students are on trial for reading the song,,,,,, x) because they call it health, education in the native language, lack of money, health on the phone. We think a fellow physician should have a few words to say about that. Therefore, it is not because of the triviality that we have given to the problems of the disabled, but because the process of the trial of medical students is crucial and vital. In fact, the majority of our Parliamental work is mispronounced in this way, wrongly imposed on society. We, Parliament, make up 70 percent of our work through social, social, different political and economic problems. All the work we've done on these things is being ignored, and the BDP is trying to create a perception that it's just working on the Kurdish problem and the main language issue in Congress. Therefore, we are deeply sorry for your honor's speech here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What's important to us is to express the problems of our disabled citizens on this stand and to create sensitivity in public.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0070par0472	Thank you. Mr. Furry, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0071par0477	Mr. President, dear Mahmut Tanal has made some mistakes while referring to our friend BDP's position on the native language -- we'll talk about this tomorrow -- briefly. Their proposal, yes, is based on Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, but the 6th article determines the minimum standard. The 1st article of the existing CMK 202 is already implementing this standard. The debate is whether or not he can express himself better in another language, even though he knows Turkish. That's what the innovation was all about. We are not allies in this matter, either, with the AKP's motion. This motion is limited because: 1. 2) He's making it payable. The third one leads to a number of other inequalitys. It's just an approach that gives an advantage to a language that'll express itself better, yes, but of course we agree that we don't have to fight with friends in this way...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0072par0484	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0073par0485	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0072par0486	Sir, Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0073par0487	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has spoken on behalf of my speech. I mean, it's a tease. So if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0072par0488	No, what did he say to make it look like a tease? It's just an explanation, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0073par0489	I'd like to bring you that statement.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0072par0490	I'll give you a minute, Mr. Tanal. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0073par0493	Sir, if the European Convention on Human Rights (E) of Article 6 of Article 6 (e) does not speak the language that can defend itself in court, the interpreter will be given for free. In the bill brought by AKP and BDP, which they actually support each other with, as long as they're paid by the defendant, the Republican People's Party must take advantage of it if no one knows the state we've brought in, the state we've brought in, as well as the police. In this sense, both the AKP and the BDP's work and action union are in question a process on the court, aimed at deceiving those who are currently under arrest. You and the public will be informed. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit02spe0072par0495	Thank you. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0072par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The National Movement Party Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: 04.12.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday (now) 04.12, I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. On Tuesday (November 3rd 2011 and 695), it has been suggested that our parliamentary research motion to conduct research on natural gas policies and pricing and pricing of Turkey's Grand National Assembly will be read in the General Assembly on Tuesday (now) and held in today's Union of its talks in order to determine the measures to be taken accordingly. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who has asked for a vote in favour of the group's proposal for the nationalist Movement Party.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0074par0015	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, first of all, I wish to celebrate the day of all our disabled citizens and to celebrate today's Day of the disabled, which has been discussed as an off-the-top talks and as a group proposal. Secondly, I wish God's mercy on the victims of fate, as the Prime Minister calls them, who died in accidents. And our new crisis, by the way, is about energy. Mr. Secretary, since the plane has not received a visa for Baghdad, it has landed in Kayseri, instead of Erbil -- news on the new agenda -- but as we leave, we have no problem with our Iraqi administration. But after the rejection of our President's request to perform the holiday prayer there, our Energy Minister has also been returned without visas. We wish him well, too. Hopefully, our government will make the necessary response and explanation in the name of the Turkish nation. My dear friends, the research proposal we've submitted is about researching problems with natural gas prices and agreements and the setting of natural gas policies to be implemented within the framework of a national energy strategy. Here, of course, when we submitted this motion, last year's raises were made. It's been about a year. Meanwhile, the total increase in natural gas has reached 49 per cent in a year, so it has increased by 50 per cent. Dear friends, we need to first know our situation in natural gas, which means we're dealing with a truly pathetic outcome. Hopefully, we don't accept this with a majority of fingers within a power challenge. You can't say that, because even today, the problems we face include pricing and acquisition agreements of natural gas. As a matter of fact, one of the main causes of our external dependency is our need for natural gas. Dear friends, since we can't come up with a basic strategy, and because we're avoiding it with daily policies, the problem remains, unfortunately, permanent. Of course, there is another issue here, where our projections and our efforts on gas demand and supply are inadequate. Dear friends, on the one hand, we have to pay when we can't consume or consume a lot of natural gas with long-term contracts as our natural gas addiction increases. But what do we do instead of looking for ways to prevent it? We allow new plants to increase gas consumption, plants to work with natural gas. A flaw we've been telling our energy ministers over the years in all the work and the Plan and Budget Commission, unfortunately, is not fully restored. We believe Turkey is not following a national energy strategy, it is dealing with temporary policies. When I say stratagem, I've mentioned it before -- we understand not eight or ten pages of little intentional documents, but seriously, national energy policies. To do that, we need to look at the total quantity of supply, supply forecasts, the areas in which our total demand should be, otherwise we continue to depend on the outside. Dear friends, when we looked at it, the President of Russia arrived yesterday, we signed different agreements, and we became directly dependent on energy; when we looked at a country with two-thirds of it, and Iran on the other side, we became extremely dependent on two countries in this way. Of course, on the one hand, we're trying to reduce the dependency on the outside, but we're still doing the new gas contracts. Now, remember, there were natural gas deals that ended at the end of last year. Mr. Secretary, with a bit of a populist attitude, sir, they're not lowering the price, so we're canceling it. Turns out, it's been considered a transition into the private sector, and private sector companies have already signed with the Russian government. Of course, what's interesting is that the Gazprom, which is going to sell us the gas in these companies, is that it's either a partnership or it's a strategic relationship. Now, when we look at these, even if we take them through the private sector, whether we take them through the government, we can't, unfortunately, take measures to reduce our outside dependency strategically, and we can't take them with that understanding, dear friends. So, what's the outcome of the wrong policy? Sir, we're a little late. What did we do? So, what did you do then? We had to raise collectively. Well, let's not raise these raises in public." Now, after the years we've done in the private sector, is the private sector going to have an automatic increase or not? How will the government prevent this from being reflected in the citizens? Does the EPDK (EPDK) or the Ministry have any precautions on the matter? Unfortunately, there are no steps taken so far. So less than a year later, there was a 50 percent increase. Sir, so that we don't reflect on the citizens, so that the next raises, come on, the previous ones didn't reflect, they didn't reflect for six months, what's it going to be like a year later? We make excuses for costs, we make excuses for courtship, we make excuses for deals. As a result, it happens to our citizen. Dear friends, in addition to this, the increase of the OTV in oil and VAT in other products, and the increase in increase in natural gas and electricity, unfortunately, our concern affects our most small-income citizens. So when these policies are wrongly applied, natural gas is a very important part of the public's budget. Oh, in the budget of the big companies or the mid-income citizens, maybe there's a little bit less space in the income level, but when you give a 10%, 15% increase, the salary increase is obvious, the employee's salary is set, the pensioner's fee is set. So, if we don't plan them right, if we continue to depend on our external addiction, then our citizen will continue to pay the bill, and that's our concern. In order to reduce this addiction, some work has to be done. Now, the other day, in America, Congress has decided on the sanctions of Iran. From where we bought it, in exchange for our imports... we asked the last Mr. Babacan... why did the gold exports increase so much? Now, Mr. Prime Minister said: "It's none of our business, we have a relationship with Iran; therefore, we'll take our gas from there, and we'll continue to exchange gold with them in return." I'd like to remind both you and the Prime Minister from here. They've had these exits before, Mr. Prime Minister, but if you remember, he went to Korea and met with Mr. Obama, and on the way down, he had significantly reduced the purchase of crude oil from Iran before he landed, 20 percent; he had about 10 percent of the total of Turkey -- we had friends here -- if I remember wrong -- we stopped that buy instantly. Why? Because someone told us not to take it from there, but apply the embargo. I hope this isn't like the oil. The Prime Minister stands by his word, so before he gets off the plane, don't let it be like in the oil. If the interest of the Turkish nation demands it, if we're buying oil, then if we're giving it to it in return, we need to stand behind it. Oh, what we said was that we asked the Minister about gold exports, but are they actually exporting them, or are they exporting them? We're going after him. If we're being paid for the goods, it's got to be a way out, but while we're doing it, sir, let's not make it look like our exports are going up, let's keep it separate. On this occasion, Mr. Prime Minister, I hereby declare to you that we, the National Party of Action, are always behind the policies, the decisions in the interests of the nation, and the decisions in the interest of the nation.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0075par0030	He stands, he stands, he keeps his word.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0074par0031	I think it's very important that the gas pricing and the research of its policies are so important for Turkey's future. In this framework, I wish that you would all support this motion of research together and that this matter would be brought to light as a national policy, with respect.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0076par0033	Thank you. Afif Demirkıran, Siirt MP, who has asked to take a stand against the nationalist Movement Party group proposal.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0036	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party regarding the parliamentary research motion for natural gas practices in Turkey -- against it. Mr. President, first of all, I'd like to offer my condolences. I wish the deceased God's mercy, patience for your grieving family, and long life. I also congratulate the day of the disabled and the day of the Earth Miners and congratulate our government. I also thank the government for its ease with both our disabled and our miners, for its legislation to open the way for the disabled, to provide the disabled with an uninterrupted life, and to ensure that our miners can do more activities. Dear friends, natural gas and oil, these are, of course, the essentials of our lives, the essentials of our economy, the essentials of our countries. However, unfortunately, these two are very small in our country, oil and natural gas. As suggested, unfortunately, we import 97 percent of our natural gas, import more than 70 percent of our energy. $54 billion of $240 billion in imports in 2011 was for energy imports. Of course, we're not going to sit around crying about no energy, no oil, no natural gas, we're going to take precautions. How to provide the cheapest, how to open the world, and most importantly not in Turkey. We will work to clarify the existence and absence of what we call oil and natural gas. That's what our government is doing. Look, in 2002, when we came to power, the amount of drilling done by Turkish Oil was only 77,000 meters per year, and by October this year, 150,000 meters...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0078par0043	So how many barrels of oil were coming out, how many barrels of oil are coming out now?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0044	We've done a drill.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0078par0045	Tell me about it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0046	We're doing this for oil and natural gas...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0078par0047	Has it increased oil?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0048	...and in many parts of our country, our search for natural gas and oil continues. Our budget for oil and natural gas increased 22 times in 2012 compared to 2002.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0078par0049	Tell me if the oil's going up, the oil's going up.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0050	I was wondering if we could find more oil on our land, reduce oil imports, see if we could reduce our current deficit.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0078par0051	Did it go down?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0052	Not enough, our oil work in the Black Sea and the Mediterranean, our natural gas work continues in a common way with various countries, often by putting the cost on those foreign companies...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0078par0053	Ninety-five thousand tons of oil were coming out of 96, and now it's down to 34 thousand.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0054	Not enough, Turkey Oil has been searching for hydrocarbons in many countries abroad; searching in Iraq, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Colombia, Afghanistan, Libya, Libya, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and many other places, in the form of partnerships. The goal is to increase Turkey's share of oil and natural gas that it can produce, and to budget less imports. We're doing the work on this. Now our friends say, "Sir, there are payments made to many countries, Russia, the other side, Iran. Dear friends, you all know very well that there's a great deal of investment in oil and natural gas, especially in natural gas, producers, manufacturers. The cost of this must be guaranteed. It's not just Turkey, it's wherever you go in the world, no matter who does it, contractal or pay, but here's the thing: If you don't get the amount you're expecting this year, you pay for it, but you don't pay for the import you're making next year. For example, BOTAS imported 5.6 billion cubic metres of natural gas in 2012. Why? In exchange for the payment that he had previously made under the scope of αal or pay.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0079par0057	Then why is he giving a raise in 2012?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0058	As for the raise, look, between 2009 and 2011, the dollar increased by around 18 percent.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0080par0059	We got it for free.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0061	On the other hand, oil prices have increased by around 89-90 percent, but in comparison, we...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0081par0062	Don't, don't! It's down to $100, $160...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0063	...three times in 2011 and 2012, here, 11 percent; 10.5; we gave a raise around 12. When you put it on top of that, it's still a raise in oil.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0081par0064	What percentage is it this year?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0065	It's the same for electricity, it's the same for natural gas. When you compare it with the power of buying, there's still a little increase in purchase power. Besides, we all know that gas prices are directly linked to oil. Dear friends, of course, Turkey, as far as its geographical location -- and I'd like to add and finish by mentioning it in one or two sentences -- has a compound where consumers are now crawling with European countries and their economies; there is not as much consumption as there has been before; but as a result, they're between high-profile oil and natural gas-rich countries. 65% of the oil is found in the Caspian region, the Middle East and Russia. So we're doing serious work, we're doing, we're doing serious work, we're doing, we're doing serious work to get Turkey to sit in a very important place in the world's energy market, from the past to today; it's not just today's project. As a national project, Turkey is involved in this kind of work, and very serious projects have been developed, both in natural gas and oil. The Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Project is one of them; the Baku-Tiflis-Erzurum Natural Gas Project is one of them, sir; the Turkey-Greek-Italy Project is one of them; Turkey-Bulgaristan-Romania-Austria is one of them. The Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline, as we call it, is also one of the natural gas pipelines that will be used via both Turkey and Europe through Turkey. We are in a very serious effort to make Ceyhan a really energy terminal; here, sir, is proof of that, and the Baku-Tiflis-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline is proof of that. We also extended the Iraqi-Turkey Oil Pipeline -- which is very old -- in 2010 -- 15+5, as you might recall -- for 15 years in that area, and it's still active. Dear friends, whether it's BOTAS or Turkish Oil, the Ministry of Energy is usually spending a very serious shift on energy policies in Turkey. The goal is to increase Turkish energy imports, to make Turkish people's future brighter. Look, we're at a point in electricity where even today, even at 2023 targets, we're still making a prediction under OECD countries. Besides, when we get to 2023, 500 billion kilowatts of electricity will be consumed in this country, which means 100,000 megawatts. Today, we're going to increase our electric board capacity, which is 50-odd megawatts. This requires an investment of $5,6 billion a year.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0082par0068	It's a private sector, don't worry about it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0069	That's what we call the private sector... so we'll transfer contracts, natural gas contracts, yes, to the private sector over time.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0082par0070	Pray for 4046.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0071	Look, this isn't just an incident that started in time for our government, it's a matter that started before us.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0082par0072	Pray and thank the laws of 2001.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0073	Natural Gas Market Law 4046 and BOTASH's monopoly have been broken, but so far only 4 billion cubic metres have been handed over to only 4 willing ones, but there are 4046-counted Gas Market Laws: no company will have more than 20 percent of the company...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0082par0075	You have to reduce it to 20%. You were supposed to finish that job in 2009, and you haven't finished it yet.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0077par0076	Thus, the price will again be in our people's favor in a competitive environment. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0083par0079	Thank you. Aykut Erdoğdu, İstanbul MP, has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0084par0082	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the gas sector. On this occasion, I salute you all. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I've come to the stand to share with you the facts of the natural gas and energy sector that have not been told to us. I want to let it be known that there are two main reasons for exorbitant increases in natural gas and electricity, in contrast to recent developments in international markets. The first reason is because of corruption, and the other is because of bad governance. Dear friends, our energy-producing SOCs -- BOTAS, TİK, EUAS, TEASS, TETAS, TETAS, and electricity distribution companies -- are being used to generate and use energy in a system of vertically integrated materials, which we produce energy from mines and distribute to citizens. All of these SOCs, as shown in their financial tables, are the KİSCE, which is in a sinking state. Sadly, many people in Turkey cannot learn this painful truth because of the concealment of the Justice and Development Party. A Law No. 6111 has been passed to save these sunken KİSCEs. What does this Law 6111 do? By evaporating the debts and debts of these people and by selling some energy companies, distribution companies, with privatisation revenues, they try to vaporize this damage. What else is being done? Electric distribution companies are quickly privatized. Now the mines are privatised with production companies, and with unfair increases, unfortunately, the damage is being closed by the citizen. Dear lawmakers, you know, there's been a 37 percent increase in public power plants recently, so I'll explain very briefly for the record why. The energy that was cleansed by this 6111 is back in the gutter. ESPECIALLY BOTAS are in a serious mess. This increase was made to receive about 1.3 quadrillion profits in the latest financial table of Electric Productions Corporation and to transfer them to BOTAŞ. According to our calculations, this increase is normally required to increase electricity prices between 7.5 per cent and 8.5 per cent. I hope the government doesn't give citizens this raise, but the real problem with the Department of Energy is corruption, dear friends, because it's in a corruption spiral. I'm going to try to tell you today what kind of spiral is running the Department of Energy over a sample. Dear friends, there's an international company called Siemens. The officials of this Siemens are reporting themselves in Europe, in the United States. The issue of the report is that we bribed these countries 57m euros for selling 13 billion euros to countries such as Turkey and Saudi Arabia. They say, "We sold 13 billion euros and we bribed 57m euros in these countries." And what Siemens' official who made this bribe statement said about Turkey is: "Rasive is part of the habit of doing business in Turkey, and we have to grease the wheels in Turkey." He says, "That's exactly the kind of words he tells us about the bribe he gives, dear friends. The Republican People's Party, then, gives a gene, which is not approved by the ruling party MPs' votes. Now let's go back to the process: This Siemens company accepts and pays 395m euros for accepting bribes in Germany from European countries, and says, "I'm sorry, dear friends, I've paid 800 million fines in the United States." And so, an investigation is being launched in Greece, which we call a sink, which we are very proud of, and then theodoros Tsoukatos and Tasos Mandelis, who were then seen as right-handed by Prime Minister Costas Simitis, are being expelled from his party by two key politicians, Papandreou. So, what do we have to do with this corruption, dear friends? The Minister of Energy of the period, Hilmi Guler, dear friends. There is a request for an investigation into Siemens, claiming that the bureaucrats had taken bribes. It's going to trial, but since Hilmi Guler won't allow this investigation, there's no investigation of Siemens corruption as a bureaucrat, dear friends. However, it doesn't end with this because the government has a very serious investigation into the closure of this issue, and as a result of our research, a lawsuit is being filed at the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office. This case, along with other tenders... here, this is the argument I have here, the indictment of the stock compressor tender, dear friends. The tender for this indictment is about 160 trillion, 160 million liras with new money. In this tender, all talks with Siemens official, sales executive Ertugrul Cambazoglu about bureaucrats during the Justice and Development Party government are here. I'll read to you something very brief, says Ertuğul Cambazoğlu, director of the Siemens firm of Mehmet Sezgin, who was instructed by the founders of the criminal organization Sejdi Çvik, Ethem Dustlu, Hasan Turgay Günay to change the terms of the contract, but they are a very beautiful plot. As far as I can tell, all the negotiations, all the bribery records, all the abuses, the phone calls again, the books again, the tender documents, and the photographs you've seen there. So, Siemens, I've bribed in Turkey, and I want to pay for it. And there's only part of the indictment that you have brought to the ministry, which Hilmi Guler has closed. The evidence doesn't end with this. This is the Court report you saw in my hand, dear friends. A report on BOTAS by the Court Office. See what it says on page 137, page 2009 of the report -- which is worth hundreds of millions of dollars in compressors of BOTASH -- that it was taken from Siemens, according to Article 22/a of the Public Relations Act No.4734, from Siemens, without contract, from Siemens, and that all this money was paid directly to Siemens. Now, when you look back, dear friends, what happens to this Siemens, this company, or this company, that has been unfairly transferred to it? Unfortunately, the cost of natural gas in Turkey is rising. As the ruling party described, the price of natural gas does not rise due to international developments, dear friends. Under this natural gas, in the purchase or payment agreements, in the price department of international agreements, in the strategy section of international status agreements, if we're right in our suspicions, unfortunately crimes have been committed to the crime of treason. We hope -- not to be right by politics, but -- none of these doubts are right. Now, back to Siemens, dear friends. What Siemens said: I sold 13 billion euros, and in return I bribed 57m euros in Turkey and Saudi Arabia. What does Siemens do in this situation? In his own country... because in other countries, it's a crime to bribe in our kind of countries -- unfortunately, in countries that are corrupt -- according to the law against bribery and corruption -- is also a crime in those countries, dear friends. $800m is fined in the United States, 395m euros in Germany. In return, Greece immediately investigates, removes and judges three key politicians from politics. What, then, is being done in Turkey, dear friends? There is no case against CHP's Gensoriya, slander, lie... and with such accusations, this geneor continues to be rejected, transactions are being carried out; after which the minister, whom you have appointed when you should be suing the public officials, cannot be prosecuted -- in accordance with the law -- and, ultimately, Turkey is walking in a vicious cycle of corruption and corruption, dear friends. So, how does this corruption and corruption turn out? So, with the price hike of natural gas, with the price hike of electricity, with the people who died because they burned free coal in their homes, they ended up dead. I wish this didn't happen, and I wish there wasn't corruption in this country, and I wish there wasn't a Justice and Development Party in this country, and I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0085par0096	Thank you. Recep Special, Isparta MP who has asked to be spoken against by the National Movement Party group.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0086par0099	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I have made a pledge against the National Movement Party's motion to investigate, and I salute you all with respect. A moment ago, the speaker prayed that there would be no corruption in the final part of this country, that there would be no bribery in this country, that there should be no Justice and Development Party in this country. 51% here, 25% there, 26 there. No one has the right or the right to put up a mortgage on the will of the nation, sir. Now, when CHP spokesmen come out here, they don't always talk about corruption, bribery, another sentence. Last week, you shared the same issues with Mr. Taner Yıldız, our Minister answered here, and if you have a document, go to court. In our book, there is no corruption, there is no bribery.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0087par0103	What do you mean, no? Here it is.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0086par0104	Look at your past political history, who's got the corruption, who's got the bribe? Remember, in the past, when your previous president was sitting in government offices in the Ministry of Energy with a coat, and remember now. In other words, he did not allow any investigations into Siemens, during the time of Hilmi Güler, nor did he go to the bureaucrats. It was an administrative procedure, subject to judicial supervision. There's a good chance -- I don't know how much it's worth -- there's been some objections to the prosecution, and the State has rejected that claim. Not only did the Minister not approve, it didn't stop there either. Every transaction the minister does is subject to administrative judicial supervision. There's no way we're going to accept these issues you've discussed here.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0088par0106	They give you the hardest job, the hardest job...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0086par0107	Yes, today's agenda, sir, is to discuss the Capital Market Law, an important law. For that reason, I would like to express my respect to you all, sir, that we did not agree with this motion for research to change the agenda.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0089par0109	Recep, you remember 40 years ago! You weren't even born yet! You weren't born yet, Recep! You weren't born yet! You weren't even in 1973! Is that a thing?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0090par0110	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0091par0111	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0090par0112	I'm going to submit the nationalist movement group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who don't accept...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0092par0113	Don't throw it, Recep! Don't throw it, Recep!
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0090par0114	The decision is sufficient, the proposal is not accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0093par0115	Where do you have it? How many are there? There's 60 or 70 of them.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0094par0116	Is there enough of a decision here? Are there 139 people here?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0090par0117	The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0095par0118	Mr. Recep Special, you weren't born yet.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0090par0119	Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0095par0120	Mr. President, he wasn't born in 1973. 04.12.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday/12/2012 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Charter. The meeting of the 10/331 main parliamentary survey proposal, which is part of the General Assembly's agenda for the General Assembly's Review and Assembly Research, (which is given to investigate the measures that should be taken by the potato manufacturers, is recommended in a joint session of the General Assembly's 04/12/2012 Tuesday (Today).
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0096par0130	The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Doğan Şafak, Nüğde MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0097par0132	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the parliamentary inquiry motion that we have made as the Republican People's Party on November 24, 2011, to establish a parliamentary research commission on the problems of the potato manufacturers. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, our motion to investigate a year ago has finally been raised. In a year, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism has not responded positively to the written and verbal question motions we've made regarding the problems of our potato manufacturers. The problems of our potato makers arise at two points. First, the high costs of agricultural irrigation and the debts of our farmer to MEDASH, and second, that his products are not even sold under the cost of their products. In the past summer, due to energy debt, MEDAS cut off the power mid-season, our farmer, Nüğde-Kayseri, tried to break his voice, and events broke out. There's been no word from the government or the Minister. A few days ago, our potato maker rebelled and put his product on the road. For the first time in the history of Asia Minor, our farmers have begun to burn their crops. This is where I'm showing this picture. Dear friends, there's a fire in the country's agriculture. Potato fires have passed the forest fires. We can't ignore that. Last May, as the Republican People's Party, we set up a potato research commission. On the ground, we listened to the problems of our potato manufacturers, we examined the warehouses, and we prepared a comprehensive report as a result of the examination. We've presented the report to Mr. President. Mr. President, he's moved most of our group meeting to the country's agenda, separating most of it from the troubles of our potato maker. Mr. Prime Minister, who has entered the race to respond to our president on everything, has made no noise about the problems of our potato maker. Congressmans, I'm giving you real information about the problems our potato maker has experienced in recent years. So, I'm going to give you a sad picture of why the potato maker rebelled: there are about 4.5 million tons of potato production in our country. Turkey's potato production ranked 20 per cent to 1. At 17 per cent, our province of Nevşehir is ranked at the second place. After that, it is a major product of agriculture production and agricultural revenues in Izmir, Afyonkarahisar, Bolu, Aksaray, Adana, Kırşehir, Burdur, and Iconia. Just last year in our cities of Niğde, Aksaray, Afyon, Nevşehir, potato products were frozen because of seasonal conditions. In this regard, the government has partially paid a group of farmers registered only to the Farmer's Recording System. The victims of farmers who were not registered with the CPS have been unresolved. At the end of the same season, most of the products have rotted in storage. In 2012, our farmer spent 60 cents on potato products, but he couldn't find a buyer for 12 cents, while his products were left to rot in warehouses. Currently, there are about 4.5 million tons of products in all our provinces. Just to illustrate the province of Niğde, 900,000 tons of potatoes from a total of 4.5 million tons are produced in our province. When sold at cost, 900,000 will be 540 million, so the old account will be 540 trillion dollars, at the current price of 12 cents, 900,000 tons will be 108 million, or 108 trillion liras. That means that when it's sold to the cost, only 540 trillion will go into the province of Niğde, but only 108 trillion will go into the city when it's sold at current prices. With these numbers, only the loss of Niğde Province is 402 trillion. The loss of large numbers of money in this product is reflected in all cities in the same production rate. In total production across Turkey, the economic value of 4 million 500,000 tonnes is 2 billion 700 million when sold at normal prices, and 540 million when sold at current prices. In this case, all potato producers in Turkey will receive $2 billion, 160m less income, which is a very serious painting. Besides, our farmer can't even find a merchant to sell his product. So our farmers can't read their children and sell their tractors, cars, animals, carpets, rugs. Therefore, the potato product must have an export door. An export incentive must be paid at least $65 per ton. The $30-35 ton incentive bonus won't make this funeral go away. Another problem is our relationship with all our neighbors is broken. Syria, Iran, Iraq, Libya, Russia, there's no country we haven't fought in. Because of the mistakes in foreign policy, we can't find a country to sell these products today. Another way is that this product must be used in the domestic market, in the food industry. There must be an urgent investigation into this. Instead of producing our own products, we consume potatoes produced by foreigners in McDonald's, Burger King, and markets. Because the electricity he used to grow his product was not able to pay the money of diesel, fertilizer, medicine, seeds, and seeds, even the bicycles of his children were seized in Niğde, Nevşehir, Aksaray, Afyon, Burdur, İzmir, and Bolu. Despite the high cost of diesel, electricity, fertilizer, agricultural medicines and other input costs, the price of potatoes is low, need to be investigated. The farmer's debt to electricity distribution institutions, which have been specialised by leaving TEDADa and TEDASH, has been under way for years. Because of the electricity the farmer uses in agriculture, he owes $2 billion, $200 million to the private sector. 161,000 agricultural irrigation subscribers have debts. One of the two subscribers is out of power. Again, MEDAS reflects additional payment on bills for the loss and illegal use of the electricity distribution system as a trafo loss fee and an opening-off fee. There are 10 types of collections in the bills that don't know what's going on. It is not possible for a farmer to remove these costs from 150-180 metres below the ground, using energy to produce them. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm going to tell you about a generalized by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. According to this sentence, the farmer's product must be tested for traces of drug residue. The farmer goes to the county and county managers before planting, buys a day, then the agricultural workers come and sample the soil and send these samples to the lab. The real problem here is getting $150 from the farmer every 1 per cent for the test. For months, the government has ignored the public's problems. Our manufacturer is at an impasse, our farmer is suffering economic and social trauma. From now on, you will be responsible for the problems and actions of our farmer. We warn you as opposition. Our proposal is: We ask that the research commission be set up so that the problems of the potato makers in our country can be investigated and taken into account the measures that need to be taken for the economic damage done to the manufacturers and to our country. At the very least, we'd like to see the sincerity of the importance you've given our farmer by refusing to oppose this commission. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute our following farmers and the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0098par0149	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Halil Aksoy, Ağrı MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0099par0152	Mayor, you could have told me the name of my party! Mr. President, I have been promised a motion by the Republican People's Party to investigate the problems of the potato makers. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, today's problems with potato makers cannot be considered independent of agricultural policies. Turkey's agricultural policy is conducted on the basis of international neoliberal policies. It is determined by the World Bank and the IMF for how many products to plant, how to encourage, how to export. In 1998, a report by World Bank President John Nash on Turkey's agricultural policy presented Turkey's so-called reform proposals. According to this, agricultural products prices will be withdrawn to the level of world prices, price support or subsidies will be removed, instead, direct income support system will be transferred, fertilizer and credit subsidies will be terminated, the concessions of agricultural sales and loan co-ops will be removed, while the system of direct income support will be privatised. These so-called reform proposals in the World Bank report were also included in the development policy reports submitted to the World Bank on March 10, 2000, in a letter of intent to the IMF on December 9, 1999. By destroying agriculture and animalism, Turkey's programme has been gradually implemented, aimed at making it a market for global agricultural food companies. Dear lawmakers, the AKP continued these policies after it came to power. With 34 per cent of the vote he received, the agricultural transformation gained momentum as the AKP came to power on its own. The project of direct income support, which constitutes the most important component of the programme and has been implemented in an uncompromising way, has upset the balance of production and employment in agriculture, has been created into a passive peasant population, has been removed from the system, has been purged in the framework of this programme, and the institutions that support agriculture and technologies have been purged, agricultural troops have been weakened, dysfunctional and liquidation conditions have been created. In short, the farmer is unorganized, unsupported and helpless. The importance of agriculture in the economy has been consistently reduced and the process of restructuring the international business department in accordance with its requirements has continued. In this framework, the value of agricultural addition has been reduced from 11.9 per cent to 9.9 per cent in illegal domestic product. The employment share of agriculture has been permanently reduced from 34.9 per cent to 24.6 per cent. During the AKP, the number of agricultural farmers quickly declined. In 2002, there were 7.5 million farmers to support agriculture, while in 2009, the number dropped to 5.2 million. In other words, the AKP has caused more than 2 million farmers to fall from agriculture with anti-production policies. Agriculture is so decisive for Turkey that it should not be followed from the high buildings of the economy, industry and trade system, but from producers' villages, fields, gardens, rural areas where they live, forest areas, and small trade streets in office lines and towns. Deliable lawmakers are dying from institutions and institutions that provide access to agriculture, buy agricultural products from the manufacturer and provide a measure of market guarantees. Agricultural co-ops haven't developed. Manufacturers are forced to market the product they produce alone, thus depriving them of power that affects the market. Agriculture prices and production costs remain high compared to countries carrying weight in the world's markets. The most important reason for this is that the price of agricultural inputs in Turkey is very high, especially for inputs such as fuel, hybrid seeds and agricultural medicines. All agricultural policies from the Republic of Turkey to date have been generalized in this context. In other words, all farmers in the country are supported in the same way. For example, the price of wheat is equally determined for all regions. Since regional efficiency and the quality of life of producers have differences, support is causing inter-state income differences. This leads to less growth in some areas than in others, and ultimately, unplanned migrations from east to west and especially to major cities. Payments are also paid per square inch for each region in direct income allowance launched under the name Reform. In each region, or even in the same region, products are produced with different levels of efficiency. Therefore, regional policies must be implemented in Turkey's agricultural policy in order to eliminate the difference in development between regions. This system is mostly implemented in European Union countries. For example, northern Italy is more developed than southern Italy, but in southern Italy there is more agricultural support, so there is not much difference in income and migration to developed areas. Agriculture should be thought of as an industry that needs to be supported and especially for low-income producers to receive social and regional assistance. A problem of Turkey's agriculture that is not often mentioned is environmental problems. The protection, development of natural resources and environments, and the organisational participation of farmers in these activities, the ability to achieve environmentally compatible agricultural production and sustainable development, the protection of gene resources, the widespread expansion of ecological agriculture, is another key problem of Turkish agriculture. A high agricultural policy of environmental responsibility must be followed. Turkey uses intensive chemical fertilizers and medicines in some areas. Manufacturers adjust the inputs they use in agricultural production according to their own knowledge and skills. The number of manufacturers who receive information from experts on this subject is quite low. The farming guidance system does not work well. More sensitive policies should be followed, which are very important for environmental and public health. Many products have been exposed to production deficits and some unnecessary stocks due to the lack of a guidance plan to control agricultural land. Potato producers were the most affected by what was left in unnecessary stocks, left in the soil. Dear lawmakers, the source of the problems of potato manufacturers today is the reflection of these neoliberal policies on the farmer. In Turkey, potato consumption is especially dense in the east. The reason for consumption is that both the food value is high and the storage time is long. Everyone consumes potatoes in the winter, regardless of rich or poor. Precious lawmakers, Russia, Iraq and Syria were among the largest potato buyers from Turkey, but Iraq and Syria were cut off, Russia began producing its own in recent years. I am coming. The government, which has not tried to resolve this issue, despite what experts have warned, is responsible for the problems of the potato makers today. After the crisis has started, hundreds of producers are victims, the AKP starts initiatives and allows for incentives to be given in exports. And it's obvious that this practice has not given the farmer, but the merchant. Above all, the government should support the producer's damage rather than give the merchant a bonus. Two years in a row, the potato manufacturers need to pay for the damage they've suffered. Especially the various parts of Anatolia, which complain about the arbitrary practices of electricity distribution companies that the government has privatised, are affected by these arbitrary practices, and they need to be supported. The incentive of certified seed production and the technique of seed control are also required to develop the ability to export more production and seeds in accordance with technique. From this point on, the difference between cooking and seedling potatoes is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and the quality seed production, the control and distribution chain should be done in a solid manner, and the seed production fields need to be determined. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0100par0174	Thank you. The Republican People's Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Sadir Durmaz, Yozgat MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0101par0177	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party on behalf of the People's Party Group on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the group's proposal to investigate the problems of the potato makers. Before I begin my speech, on the occasion of World Day, which we understood yesterday, our disabled brothers and sisters in every corner of our country, and in the same way, because of World Miners' Day, I greet all miners with my sincerest feelings, and give them all my love and respect. Valuable lawmakers are strategically important in every country in the world because of their properties, such as agriculture, food safety, rural development, employment, national income contribution, exports and environmental protection. A significant part of our country's population is still engaged in agriculture, and a significant part of our active workforce is employed in agriculture. Precious lawmakers have seen an increase in current figures in agricultural support during the AKP administrations, but their real support rates have dropped. In 2006, however, the AKP ruled that its support rate could not be lower than 1 per cent of the non-national population, but it never achieved that rate. Turkey is one of the most expensive selling countries in the world. Only with the heavy tax burden on the mazot, in fact, the AKP is withdrawing its support for agriculture. The increase in fertilizer has made the manufacturer unable to use fertilizer. The continued increase of fertilizer is not a state in any country in the world. Again, the energy costs used in agriculture during the AKP period have reached unbearable levels. Due to unrefundable debts, our producers' power transformers have been removed, they must be captured in their vehicles, foreclosure in their bank accounts, and the security in their deeds continues. The farmer's power is out, his debt is folded every day. The farmer is struggling with the foreclosure and the prison clamp. Deputised lawmakers are in the farmer, credit, debt and execution clamps, which are not supported by the AKP government, which don't pay for the product. Today, our manufacturer is completely helpless, pushed into the brutal arms of the free market. As a result of AKP's agricultural policies, which are no longer supported or directed, our producer no longer knows which product, when or how many crews will sell it to whom; he is not able to look forward with hope, but is helpless to the mercy of brokers, loan sharks and merchants. Turkey's most expensive diesel, fertilizer, electricity for the farmer has become dependent on agriculture. Agricultural land, which was developed during the AKP period, is rapidly shrinking. The constant privatisation of the inputs has left our animalism dying. In the end, the AKP, which destroyed our animal production, found the solution in importing animals. The AKP's animal policies have been nothing more than supporting the animal manufacturers of the United States and the European Union. Dear MPs are the main potato production regions of our country, the Central Anatolian, the Black Sea, the Aegean and the Northeast Anatolian regions. As far as cities are concerned, the cities where the production was massed are Niğde, Nevşehir, İzmir, Afyon, and Bolu. Despite its cheapness, more efficiency than the unit area, its food value is high, its digestion, its use in various ways, and its growing in all climates, in recent years the production of potatoes and potatoes in our country has been constantly dwindling. One of the most important factors affecting potato efficiency is the use of reformed seeds. Unfortunately, this seed, which is a potato, is being imported from the European countries, especially Germany, at very high prices, because there is no investment and work being made by the state and the private sector. This is an important cost factor for the manufacturer. Large warehouses that fit the standards of the baked potatoes are small, and the manufacturer's ability to store at his own expense causes short storage time and about 10 per cent to be lost. Although potato consumption is increasing day by day, the manufacturer has sold the product he has produced for almost the same price over the past five years. The increase in fertilizer and diesel prices, making the most important input cost in the production of potatoes, has exceeded 300 per cent. Electric energy and seed costs used in agricultural irrigation have also increased significantly in this period. Potato producers were unable to pay their debts in time as a result of the rise in input costs and the failure to sell the product at the appropriate price, adding a very high rate of delay by banks and TEDAŞ, and the debt became inextricable. Due to the frosting of the potatoes produced in 2011 and the decay of some of them in the warehouses, certain measures were needed to avoid the same situation in 2012. However, the AKP government has taken no measures to protect the potato manufacturer, and 2012 has been a year of frustration for potato producers. The farmer left the potatoes that were harvested during the harvest in 2012 without a buyer. 1 kilogram of potatoes cost its grower 55-60 cents, and 1 kilogram of potatoes in the market can't find a buyer for 20 to 25 cents, and some potato manufacturers don't even harvest their potatoes and leave them in the field. These manufacturers can't even pay for their hard work, so the potato grower is extremely difficult. Since potato growers can't find enough stores to store potatoes they can't market, they leave them like they are in the field or feed them to their animals, even the number of potato manufacturers selling their fields and migrating to western provinces has increased significantly. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to share with you some of the measures that must be taken urgently to relieve the potato makers of these trials. The harvested potatoes must come out of the hands of the grower at once. For this reason, these potatoes should be sold for a fee to organizations such as the Social Aid and Solidarity Fund, which are not growing potatoes or growing fewer potatoes, and in the districts of those provinces. Again, to increase the consumption of potatoes, contact with institutions and organisations such as the National Ministry of Defence, the capital city municipalities, the Kızılay, the Ministry of Justice must be established. Earlier, potatoes were widely exported to Middle Eastern countries. Because of the government's wrong policies, Syria cannot be exported, Iraq can not enter the market, Georgia and Azerbaijan do not have the chance to compete with the Iranian manufacturer. Government support is essential for the potato manufacturer to compete with the Iranian manufacturer. Because of cheap energy and diesel in Iran, the potato's kilogram cost is less than 50% compared to that of Turkey. Unfortunately, the state does not provide any support for our farmers who produce potatoes with the world's most expensive diesel, with the most expensive electricity. As in nuts, tea, and grain, potatoes also need to be implemented by base and ceiling price policies. One of these measures is that farmers who do not belong to the Farmers Recording System and also to the Potato Manufacturers Association are not allowed to plant potatoes. Electricity prices used in agricultural irrigation are too expensive, so it must be subsidized. The reduction of the VAT could also be recommended as one of the measures that must be taken immediately, with the interest of former electricity debt wiped clean and the capital tied to the taxi. Potato producers' debt to agricultural loan co-ops and Agriculture Bank must be postponed for a year without interest. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0102par0193	Thank you. Republican People's Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal, Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Nüğde MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0103par0196	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party about the frost disaster in our cities of Niğde, Aksaray and Nevşehir, about the problems of the potato manufacturers in our country and the freezing of potato products, about their investigation into the economic damage they've done to the manufacturers and our country, and about their investigation into the measures needed to be taken. In our country, the province of Niğde is first in both the production of potatoes and the planting areas. According to 2010 data, Niğde alone provides 16 per cent of Turkey's annual need for potatoes. Potatoes are raised by more than 5,000 families in the districts of Farm, Çamarır, Bor, Altunhisar, near 70. During the dismantling period last year, frost damage occurred in potatoes that had not been removed in the field, due to the decline of air temperature to below zero levels at various times beneath the ground. A total of 1,453 potato manufacturers in these areas have been found to have been unable to complete potato harvests in a total of 48,485 and the damage rate in this area is between 40 and 70 per cent. Dear lawmakers, our government has not left our producers alone after the frosting of the potato makers, it has been supported by delaying loans and paying support to our farmers. I'd like to brief you on support and loan delays during the frosting disaster in Niğde province in 2011. Decision number 2011/2488 has been granted a one-year delay in loans from our farmers from the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loan co-ops. Again, with Resolution 2012/3176, 944 farmers in the district of Niğde received a total of over 4.5 million TL ($200). This support has allowed our farmers to take a breath of relief. Dear lawmakers, at the beginning of our problems with potatoes, there is a surplus of production because we see that our country is being produced over the needs of the domestic market. We also face a problem, such as deforestation due to overproduction. Electricity debt has come to a difficult point, so our farmers have difficulty paying off their debt to electricity. Our manufacturers also have problems in exports. Niğde and Nevşehir potatoes cannot enter the European market. That's because the European Union's regulations allow products from the wart-green area to be non-corrupted, so we can't enter the European Union markets. Our potato farmer's problems are always on the agenda. In recent months, field inspections have been conducted in Niğde and Nevşehir, with a delegation of general directors and experts, headed by our Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. A plan of action is being drawn up by manufacturers and interested organizations to see what can be done about potatoes in short, medium, and long term. The biggest problem already is the cost of potato prices due to production surplus. With the initiative of our Nüğde and Nevşehir MPs, our Ministry of Agriculture has begun to work to boost exports. With the support of our Prime Minister, the Para-Credit Board has discussed the matter and made the necessary decisions. Starting in the coming days, we already believe that there will be significant activity in exporting potatoes and prices will increase. For us, the sweat of our farmer is on top of everything, and the labor of our farmers, who provide all their livelihood from the potato fields, to bring us value to the harvest that he took from the soil. We will continue to act on its responsibility and work on it until the victims of the manufacturers are relieved. For better or for worse, we will always be with our farmers. I say I do not agree with the petition of the Republican People's Party Group to investigate the potatoes, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0104par0208	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0105par0209	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit03spe0104par0210	I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. Congressmans, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0104par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fourth Session of the Thirty-threeth Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal on the 19th Article of the Civil Charter was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/208 is my original Law Proposal, Internal Charter 37. I respectfully submit to the matter of direct agenda. The bidder is Mustafa Kalaycı, the Conium MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0106par0015	Mr. President, I have been promised to make a statement regarding our proposal for the rights of teachers to be improved. On this occasion, I salute you all. Our teachers' monthly and additional course fees are not enough to lead a human life. Our teachers also have a great deal of trouble making a living in retirement. Teachers have been poorer during the ten-year period of AKP's power, taking the lowest wage among public employees. Unfortunately, our teachers were not allowed to benefit from improvements to civil servants' salaries and provisions of Act 666, dated November 2, 2011, on the grounds of equal pay for equal employment. It is unacceptable for our teachers, who are anxious to teach our children a letter, who are willing to sacrifice their services to contribute to our nation's bright future, to be helpless in the face of economic problems. It's a shame for the ruling party that teachers who deserve the best of everything have a hard time meeting their most basic needs. The time has come for our teachers to be held and to move to the economic and social level that they deserve. The members of this blessed profession, for whatever reason, we have to know and predict that the problems we cannot solve will have a heavy price to pay for the future of our nation. This proposal, which we offer as MPs of the National Movement Party, envisions raising additional indicators by giving 3,600 additional indicators to teachers serving at the first degree, and increasing education-education compensation rates by 45 to 50 points, according to their degrees. If this law is accepted, our teachers' salary will increase by around $300-350, and our retired teachers' monthly salary will increase by around $330. I hope that this proposal of the law will be supported by your valued lawmakers so as to reassure our teachers at all. If there is no solution and solution to the enduring and deepening problems of teachers who raise us and have unique rights over all of us, it will be impossible for us to reach the future's happy and prosperous country ideal. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that the issue is not only the monetary size, but the educational system must be subjected to a multi-directional reform and improvement. The National Ministry of Education draws the appointment of apology groups once a year, but lifting the city and the district order is a major challenge. Incompatibleness in physical and environmental conditions due to lack of a lecturer and teacher has turned the teacher's education system into a tragedy, which is expected to appoint more than 300,000. Waiting for the appointment, teachers waited for days at Abdi İpekçi Park in Ankara's cold climate to make an appointment with the Prime Minister for five minutes to explain their troubles and inform him of the need to appoint February. They've asked for 30,000 appointments in February to close the teacher gap in our schools a little bit. Unfortunately, over 350,000 teachers, waiting to be appointed, have been ignored by the Prime Minister and the AKP government. Yeah, no matter what anybody says, there's a serious teaching opening right now. In February and August, teachers must be appointed from all majors. If we want to get our country back on its feet, put it in a position of strength and order, we must surely end the problems of education and teaching and the problems of our teachers. Teacher, tomorrow's publisher is the guarantee of the strong Turkish nation, which has no choice but to live together. It's our teachers who teach both letters and manners. The teacher is the ambassador and deliverer of national and spiritual values. They're the ones who awaken the young dimas, draw attention to the bumps of life, connect the buildup of his mind with the love in his heart, and pass it on to the hungry and willing souls. I still honor and thank all of our teachers who have retired and served. I'm hoping you'll back me up, and I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0107par0027	Thank you. Erkan Akçay, MP of Manisa.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0108par0030	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our esteemed lawmakers on the matter of our teachers, as MPs of the National Movement Party. This proposal aims to increase the salary of our teachers between $300 and $350, and the salaries of our retired teachers to around $330. But this bill has not been on the table for a year. Again, the law proposal for the appointment of our teachers has been suspended for over a year, after removing the staff barrier in front of the teachers. Again, our legal proposal for teachers' extracurricular fees to not be taxed and teachers to receive an actual service increase, or an expiration increase, has been transferred to the commission. I hope these offers will be brought up. Dear lawmakers are paid far below the OECD average according to the purchase power parity, while our teachers' annual working hours are a hundred and forty-one hours higher than OECD countries. Teacher's salaries are far below the poverty line. Turkey expects to appoint around 320,000 teachers when there is a need for 120,000 teachers. An important portion of teachers do not receive additional tuition. Taxes are also taxed on the additional tuition fees they receive. There has been an increase in the additional payments of some executives and by Code 666, while there has been no increase in the additional payments of teachers. It is the result of AKP's insensitivity that our teachers, who have struggled to meet the most basic needs of our country, who have prepared our children for our future security, who have introduced them to knowledge, who have given them knowledge, who have given them knowledge, who have made sacrifices for the development and enlightenment of our country, are helpless in the face of economic problems. Look at this system at the Izmit rally in 2002, 72,000 teachers are short. You're auditioning teachers. What the hell are you doing? When we establish our government, we will start all the teachers and solve the problem of education in the first place. However, after ten years, the teacher's salaries -- and in 2012 the teacher's deficit reached 120,000 from 72,000 to 120,000, while the non-assigned teacher's candidate has exceeded 300,000 -- are unfair to the officer. They're already working fifteen hours, and they're on vacation for two months. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as if, within the AKP government, teachers have been led by the act and campaign of discreditation, like a commission, and the chairman of this commission is Mr. Prime Minister, Vice President Arinc, National Education Minister Omar Dinçer and AKP Deputy Chair Mr. Elitaş. I've said what the Prime Minister said. The Minister of National Education, I like to think of those who want to become teachers as pigeons standing outside the mosque in Eminönün. They expect someone to feed them, and the teachers waiting for them to find them another job. He has insulted our teachers. Mr. Arinc is also a person who wants to give personality to teachers. He contributed to this insult. Mr. Elitaş was also paid 1,800 Turkish liras. What do they do? Go, go, come. Let those who do not like do other work. They despise our teachers and teaching profession. This false and public error of teachers' working hours, salaries, and teachers' appointment of teachers is causing our teachers to suffer psychological weariness, making teachers and other public officials and society face each other. Teachers' additional tuition should be raised and not taxed on additional tuition fees. Teachers should be given an actual service increase, a disbursement increase. Teachers' education and teaching compensation must be raised, and base monthly and special service compensation must also be increased. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] With such thoughts and wishes, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0109par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0110par0046	Mr. President, we're requesting a roll call.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit04spe0109par0047	I will submit the motion to your votes. But there's a roll call. I'll do it. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Özgüşım, Mr. Demiröz, Mr. Küçük, Mr. Kuşoğlu, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu, Mr. Topal, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Mr. Akar, Mr. Aterci, Mr. Özturk, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Eyükdan, Mr. Turk. I'll give you two minutes. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking an hour off from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0109par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 33th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question proposals and other audit issues, and we move on to the Law Bills and Proposals of the Agenda and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will continue to talk with Tunceli MP Kamer Çağin about the changes in the Institution of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Government, where we are left with the Court of Justice and Foreign Affairs Report, where it is appropriate to ratify the Military Education Business Association Covenant. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the Justice Commission Report and the Law Charter, which is ranked in the fourth place in the fourth place, for the length of Judiciary and part-execution of Court Decisions to be paid for or not to be carried out. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We begin talks with Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 337 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after negotiations on the entire bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On top of the whole bill, Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP, wants to speak for the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0111par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a commitment to present the views of the National Movement Party on the overall draft of Capital Market Law, 337 rows under discussion. I hereby salute your high council. This bill is a really important one. I thought of it as a bill the government cared about. There's also the incident of the establishment of the financial center. If the observers look at these reports the next day, they will consider and evaluate how important the government is to show that the Minister is not around and how serious he is about it. I'll go back to that later. Members of parliament, the main reason for the Capital Market Law bill is that three basic points are being carried out: One is the work that ensures that our country's legislation meets the EU acquish. Second: a provision of harmony with the Turkish Trade Law adopted last year in the Supreme Assembly. Third: The existing SEC Law 2499 cannot meet the needs of the day. As a result of the examination of the bill, there are two outstanding issues: One is that the bill is being prepared as a framework law and that the Capital Market Board is authorized to make a very broad secondary arrangement that ensures the flexibility needed for the markets in this framework. The second is the expression: The market is a regulatoric text, where the market will constantly consider the needs and facts, in other words, a policy-oriented approach. If we look briefly at the innovations and changes brought in with the Capital Market Act, the first of the primary goals of the bill is the protection of investors; another is the amendments to tools exported from the main actors of capital markets; instead of institution-based regulation for capital market institutions, the foundation-based regulation is the establishment-based arrangement for institutional investors to build a more competitive structure, and the sector to act independently from related financial institutions. Of course, these issues are the consequences of the bill's transfer to the Supreme Assembly. When looked at in this framework, it is the result of a technical work based on the purpose of ensuring that the current SPK is in harmony with the current conditions in 1999. Of course, every government will want to do good for its country, which is natural, and nothing more natural. The Prime Minister puts all the good, good jobs in this country in relation to himself, with his party, and the bad takes responsibility for everything else. From what we've learned from public information, in this ten-year period, only once in U.S. dollars, the amount of public supply has only reached the year 2000 on a dollar basis. On the other hand, a total of 61 IPOs over the past three years have been a remarkable issue, noting how many companies there have been, where investors have not been harmed. Now, IPOs have become a means of financing the small investor's money has been destroyed. It is also a question of how the government will achieve its target of 1,000 companies in the stock market. Another concern is that the number of companies currently being traded in the stock market is around 400. I think that number was around 330 in 2000. One important thing to remember is that between 2005 and 2010, in the years when the public supply was high, record-sized privatisations should also be considered. The most important function of capital markets is to transfer investments into the real sector and protect investors, given how successful they have been in both matters over the past decade. Before I go into details about the bill, I'd like to mention a traditionalized habit of AKP governments, which is now neither in the Supreme Assembly nor in public. If there is an obstacle to legal regulations on something the government wants to do, they rush into any bill or proposal that is not relevant to the issue, and whatever is irrelevant to the bag of laws is being dealt with by a law. As a result, mistakes in these rapid changes are being resolved in a similar way. And in this bill that we've discussed today, we find it clear and clear that the AKP government has not given up this tradition. As I pointed out at the outset, the first version of the bill was the product of a technical study that was trying to meet general needs, while it was a different quality with the midnight motions that came up in the commission. The most important innovations of this law are, in fact, real estate-oriented issues, which are being attributed to such importance by the government and are being discussed with urgency in the General Assembly. The reason for this is to create holy Manhattans. First of all: As I have just said, the recent number of public ads and ads is to be given to the SPK the oversight and control authority on what is called selling housing from the machine, which has been remarkable. The second is the privatisation of the Istanbul Securities Stock Exchange, which is sold through TOKİ, the Istanbul Stock Exchange, which is brought up in brilliant terms, such as the Istanbul Financial Centre. During the commission talks of the bill, friends of our party's members, the constructive proposals of our deputies were ignored, and the government has insisted on doing what the government has to do with these two. Today, in the housing sector, there are challenges and solutions to what is called selling from the machine. However, it is one of the most important issues that are interesting to be asked to do in the SPK, when there are many relevant public institutions, the ministry and the law and other regulations. The government's spokesman would like to grant the authority to the SPK, arguing that there are a number of citizens who may or may not be victims of this issue, thinking that the SPK will defend their rights more effectively. What is it that even the government doesn't want to ignore the problems that arise in the housing sector? It's an example. Will he be able to solve it like this? He won't. On the other hand, under the leadership of the AKP Group, a research commission was established in our parliament during the first period of AKP ruling, and the proposed solutions to the problems of the conglomerate citizens. Of course, traditionally, all of the crime is that those who collect these coins want to go to the old authorities regardless of which party the idea is. In the past eight years, nothing has been done to resolve the problem of these citizens, or a solution has not been proposed in this bill that we have discussed today. Or, as the Prime Minister said to a citizen who criticized him on a European trip, did you ask me when he was paying? Why are investors, who are the victims of reasonable good intentions or lack of information, not pursuing flashy vision like the Istanbul Financial Centre, but inviting companies and people to capital markets with large advertising campaigns? Second: Privatisation of the Istanbul Stock Exchange is a key issue for the government. With this proposal delivered at midnight, all the stock markets in Turkey are merged and the privatisation process is under way. As it is known, the SEC was founded in 1982 by Law 2499. Throughout the 2000s, both our country and the world's crises have dealt with the development and development of capital markets in our country, the establishment and development of the Istanbul Stock Exchange. In 1982-1999, our country was also a period of preliminary preparation and development for the capital market. After 1999, a period of maturity began. It is now stated by the government that the Istanbul Financial Centre, which will take over worldwide, has come to the point of creation. Legal arrangements have been made and created by the SEC so that Istanbul can become a financial centre. The revolutionary developments in the financial sector in the 2000s are the result of radical changes, even though the previous governments paid the price heavily for all the actions of the AKP government in the face of the crisis. Meanwhile, the Turkish Trade Law, which began its work in 2002 and was referred to the Grand Parliament in 2005 with the signature of the Prime Minister himself, was adopted in 2011 with the support of opposition parties. However, the fact that no serious work has been done by the government and no significant changes have been made in the Capital Market Law in 11 years has shown that the AKP governments have succeeded in taking advantage of the regulations made by previous governments, is also a clear indicator that they have not made any arrangements on their own in the financial field. The Prime Minister's main goal and vision for the financial sector is to establish the Istanbul financial centre. How is that possible? With the testimony of Prime Minister and other AKP spokesman, the government has taken the first step by law to carry out its vision since 2007 of the central banks, the Central Bank, the BDDK and the SPK's headquarters to Istanbul; it has been changed since 2011 to become the centers of the BDDK and the SPK. With an additional clause in the law, it has been decided that the move of these institutions will be completed within two years, that the Council of Ministers may extend that period. What happened after that change of law? News of the construction of the Istanbul Financial Centre has been reported in the newspapers for the purpose of a single-handed execution of construction work, but has been the new co-ordinator of the construction of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism Istanbul Financial Centre, which was established under the Law of 648, issued in August 2011. This is an indication that the government's vision of the international financial centre is limited only to construction and rant. As I have just stated, the government is seeking to create holy Manhattans. The establishment of the Ataşehir land office will be completed by the name of the international financial centre or the right name. Mr. Prime Minister's request to move the Istanbul Securities Stock Exchange, then to be forgotten by expert maneuvers from other officials, but the temporary material at the end of this bill reveals the real intentions. For this moment, it appears that the Istanbul Stock Exchange will be in the capital of the Stock Exchange, but what will happen tomorrow is unclear. Reports that were reported in the newspapers after the commission meeting of the bill were pronounced at around $2 billion, according to current development plans, for 160 acres of the Stock Exchange to be handed over to TOKI. Now, it's possible to say all this, but if there's any time left, I'll try to express it -- the economic environment that they're going to have to live in for the capital markets to be processed. The government is targeting 2023. You're already collecting 2023 targets from here, it's nothing to him, but what you're realizing now is that yesterday, in 2023, a Minister of the Government made it very clear and clear that even if he left with the current conditions, he would not be able to reach the targets they set in 2023. It's a sincere confession, and it's admirable. Now, I wanted to say something that I thought Mr. Babacan was here, but I'll tell you anyway. Look, he said the financial rule, he gave up the fiscal rule, with two ministers throwing their shoulders at him. What did he do? No need, we took precautions. He said. Look, the budget that you're programming for 21-22 billion dollars is 10 billion dollars, and you're coming here today. There's no further side to this. You gotta tell these people the truth. Now, Mr. Babacan left, he told me yesterday. What's he saying? It says that society consumes a lot. He says we have to be careful. He may be telling the truth, and he's right. It's impossible to say that 10 million pensioners have been consumed in a country with 10 million green card holders. It's impossible to say that growth is stable. And we're making it very clear that there's no sustainable growth. The average growth rate during the AKP period, with the average growth rate of the past 50 years, but it turns out that it's not sustainable, when you consider that growth of what you call 8 is negative 4, growth of one year is negative 4, growth of eight, growth of 8.5-9, went down by 3. It's not really possible to say that a government that reduces savings to 12 per cent of the private sector from 24 per cent is well managed by its administration of economics. Mr. Secretary, we've been colleagues with you, but I wish we hadn't said so much to you and told Mr. Babacan. In fact, we called him "the nightingale who ate the berries" when it came to the financial rule. The Minister of Transport threw a shoulder. He said, "No." He said, "The Minister of Industry threw a shoulder." He said, "No." He's eaten his words from all the reports here. We told him he was like a nightingale who ate berries, Mr. Secretary. We didn't speak the word "buffed nightingale" in a bad way either. They know what you've become. It's hard to say that the economy is going well in an environment where there are ministers in the cabinet who are in conflict with the government, who can't agree with each other, but we're still... I want to make it clear and clear that in this law, we're going to try to contribute to this law as the National Party of Action, to the things we want to be improved, to the things we want to be changed, to the things we want to be corrected. What are we going to do when we talk about the issues that must be included in the bill? We'll bring it to you. Therefore, the government must give up on this bag bill. I salute your high council again with this occasion.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0112par0068	Thank you. Aydın Ajan Ayadın, İstanbul MP who has asked for the People's Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0113par0071	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party regarding the Capital Market Law. On this occasion, I salute your grand delegation. Mr. President, I would like to point out that we support in principle this bill drafted by the government in order to implement a more modern, stronger, and above all, legal regulation, in order for our capital market legislation to be renewed in accordance with the conditions of the day. As a matter of fact, as we have contributed to every phase of the bill we discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I would like to point out first that we are prepared to make all kinds of contributions after that. However, as every legal arrangement presents itself, there are serious challenges both in the process and in the essence of the proposals. Unfortunately, we're also running into this in the bill we're in now. Many issues, which are not included in the bill and should be a separate law, have been added to this bill by the subcommittee and the higher commission, and have been disabled by lawmaking, regulations, and law. This is one of the ongoing practices of the AKP's power. However, in this legislation, the goal is not to legalize the ruling party as it says, but to accept what is best for the country. In this regard, the identification, opinion and criticism of lawmakers from opposition parties is important in reaching the right one. However, in the AKP's ruling, the legislation that we have gradually moved away from has been replaced by a unilateral, non-compromising, non-compromising procedure based on the majority of seats in the new Parliament. As someone who has been a senior manager in financial markets for years and fully aware of the importance of this arrangement, I, my fellow party members and other opposition parties MPs have exhibited a detailed work and participation in the bill's subcommittee talks and, as well as in the Commission's process. In the commission phase, the constructive criticism and contributions of members of the Republican People's Party and other opposition parties were appreciated, but for some reason, the opposition's many proposals were not reflected in the material text. As regards the arrangements in the bill, our motivated proposals and criticisms are being heard, the truth is being given, but those who immediately take the vote... those who do not accept... the contributions, the efforts, the sensitivities have been put aside. Moreover, as this may not be enough, the commission has added to the bill of law on the level that may be the subject of a single arrangement. Let alone the opinion of the relevant public institutions, it is passed on by superficial, superficial and short-term assessments and assessments, and is mounted on the bill before the commissioner has even had the opportunity to investigate the issues that many lawmakers were aware of at the time. As a member of the Supreme Assembly, it is sad to say, as sad as it is to say, that law and regulations for the AKP are now set aside in the parliamentary discussion of legal regulations, and only one form is met. Just as we opposition lawmakers, in a preconceived, totalist approach, everything that AKP brings is wrong, it shouldn't be. The AKP must not seek and take advantage of opposition parties' views and criticism in the legislative process, unless we say so. Let's get to the basics of the bill. In our country, the management and supervision of capital markets is owned by the Capital Market Foundation established by Law 2499. The SPK, an independent independent, autonomous regulatory institution, is unfortunately lacking in reviewing the opportunities of global dynamics, protecting investors and maintaining the depth of the capital market. The main reason for this situation is due to the lack of legal infrastructure for the capital market, as well as the situation of the country's economy. In this framework, a legal framework aimed at the deepening of the capital market, such as the Republican People's Party's party programme, requires a new capital market law, is urgent and is even late, but in this case, the bill contains some difficulties. In this context, the SPK needs to be active and strong, but it has to operate in a structure that is in line with the rule of law. Unfortunately, however, many provisions involved in the bill form a structure far from that understanding. If the law comes out in such vague terms, the SEC will be equipped with an empire, and the president of the SEC will be equipped with Padişah powers. I have no doubt of the good intentions of today's SEC President and the institution's, but we cannot predict from this day forward whether others who sit in these seats the day after tomorrow will have the same good intentions. How can we trust some political and bureaucrats who will sit in those seats in the future and are equipped with the power of these monarchies, with a few bad examples in the past? The draft law provides some measures to ensure healthy functioning in capital market activities. While these measures are fundamentally important and correct, they do not draw a clear, clear, and specific framework. This means that the SPK will be recognised by its vague and monarchy powers. No matter how well-intentioned the purpose, vague statements in the law will make the business world nervous, as well as any section. I'm holding Mr. Secretary and Mr. President out, but one day an executive will come in and want to abuse the laws he's been given, and unfortunately, there have been similar incidents in the past. In a situation like this, they'll be able to terrorize public companies. Therefore, it is beneficial to define clearly and clearly the limits of their authority. Again, in the process of implementing institutional management principles, it is clear that the SPK will be given the opportunity to resuscitate and ask for sanctions without delay. I'd like to give an example of this in some of the articles that regulate punishments. Whatever punishment these crimes require, they must be included in the text of matter, one by one, plain and simple. It would not be right to charge crimes with vague statements if the text of the article is not clearly considered a crime. As a matter of fact, Article 2 of the Turkish Penal Code predicts that no one can be punished for a verb which clearly does not count as a crime, and no security measures will be enforced. In the same article, crime and punishment cannot be imposed on the regulatory procedures of the administration. It states that the law cannot be compared with the implementation of criminal and criminal provisions. It is made clear on the basis of the clause, which cannot be interpreted broadly, in comparison to the provisions involving crime and punishment. In order to ensure their rights and freedom, the person expressed in the article on the purpose of the law underlines which verbs should be made clear in the law. In accordance with the principle of the Constitution, there is no crime and punishment expressed in our universal form. The Turkish Parliament alone has the authority to define crimes and impose criminal law sanctions. According to our constitution, it is an authority that cannot be transferred. I think the AKP government wants to make its bureaucrats their king as well as its own. The bill gives the SPK overpowering powers in vague terms. The AKP itself will act as the king, and the bureaucracy itself will act as the king. No, let's stop here! There are rules in this country, there are laws in this country, there are rule of law. As the fourth article of the bill is discussed, a motion given by the ruling party and adopted by an initiative is required to make a general call to provide financial funding through any means, making a statement for the intended investment and authorising the Capital Market Board on the issue. Clearly, this arrangement describes the recent housing project. In this way, non-public companies are provided with SPK control, primarily companies that have launched a new project in the housing sector. In fact, all non-public companies are under SEC control with this clause, so-called housing companies will be controlled. While the housing sector is one of the locomotives of the country's economy -- the United States, as seen in Spain's crises -- is also a candidate for creating serious challenges. As a matter of fact, housing needs and housing demand are mixed in our country, and the increasing number of housing constructions are not available after they are finished. In this regard, the position of the industry must be thoroughly analyzed and the arrangement on this issue must be made in a more comprehensive and healthier way. However, these controls and measures are not based on the Capital Market Act. This will not be the way the risk management will be conducted in the housing sector. See, if you have to take a precaution in this context, which I think is necessary -- it's not based on the SEC Act. Instead, regulations can and must be made in the Law on the Protection of consumer number 4077. Also, let's say that the wrong is being insisted on, and this law is being given to the SPK to rule. Is the institutional capacity and experience of the SPK enough to see such an important function in the housing sector? I don't think so. The SEC is completely greedy to have a say in companies that don't enter its field when they can't do enough editing and auditing about companies that are entering its field. The goal here is to expand the scope of the SEC bureaucrats' mandate. Unfortunately, politicians are also trapped. While it is controversial that the SPK is competent and ready for such an important audit, the explanation agencies can also use it to abuse the trust of the citizen. He will launch himself as a housing project approved by the SPK with large ads to the paper, even with an SEC-approved housing project, and will set sail for a new fraud in the housing sector. It's extremely dangerous. Finally, on these critiques and findings, the procedures and principles for explaining the shape of the housing sector have been left to the Council of Ministers, even though it is not at the core of this arrangement for the housing sector. The Council of Ministers' decision to open a diplomatic mission to the countries in which capital markets are in intensive contact with the Council's decision in the areas in which the Capital Market Council is deemed necessary under Article 126. It's a completely wasteful substance. Article 133 is the legal and criminal responsibility of the board's president and members and their staff, while the situation of harming the third party on the lower commission has been removed from the draft text and therefore from the investigation. This is extremely wrong. The interim nineth item, added to the bill at the last moment by a motion given at the top commission, which is not included in the draft, which is not mentioned at the subcommittee meeting. The Istanbul Securities Stock Exchange has been transformed into a company under the name Borsa İstanbul Anonymous Company. For such a radical arrangement, no institution, particularly the Ministry of Finance, the Privatisation Administration, the Ministry of Justice, has been approached, so to speak, has been introduced to carrbole. Many laws, such as the Public Financial Management and Control Act, the Law of State Officers, the Law of Public Contraction, the Law of Public Contraction, the Law of Public Housing, the Law of Public Housing, the Press Admissions Act, in short, will not be enforced here. İMKB, İstanbul Gold Stock Exchange and the VOB Stock Exchange in İzmir will merge under the roof of Istanbul. The Istanbul Gold Exchange and the VOB are not willing to unite, but what is the solution, the order came in this way, and so will be. I mean, the Golden Exchange and the VOB will be history. Why is this privilege so vast, why? On paper, 49 percent of the company will belong to the treasure. 4 per cent of the remaining shares will be available to the current members of the IMKB, 3 per thousand of the existing members of the Istanbul Gold Stock Exchange, free of charge, and the rest of the remaining shares will go to other stock markets and system operators in exchange for strategic partnerships if the Stock Exchange remains in the hands of the Istanbul Corporation. You see, the stock market will all be public, but 49 per cent will appear to belong to the treasury. The other shares will be given to him within three years, but if the company holds a stake, he'll give it to the treasure for free. This is officially an operation to smuggle the company out of court control. Now, they're going to say against what I'm saying, "Sir, we want to give the impression of a stock market, not a government stock market, so that we can build trust for investors abroad and bring depth to the stock market." There's no such thing. This is officially an operation to take over the IMKB, and the rest is a story. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the arrangement they're trying to make here is wrong. In fact, almost all of his capital belongs to the public, but on paper 49 percent of it seems to belong to the treasury. And you'll have the entire administration, you'll decide everything, including the administration, the capital will be yours, but it's not a public company, it's a private company. If it's a private company, then why are you excluding the quota fee on the same substance? When it comes to your job, it's not a public company, it's a private company, it's a court audit. Well, if it's a private company, why do you expect immunity from the quota fee? What a diet of sauerkraut! It's impossible to understand. I hope that our views and findings will be taken into consideration, and a modern and comprehensive capital market reform will be implemented in accordance with the law. Just as in the Turkish Trade Law, as a sign of democratic participation and reconciliation, let us consolidate this law as a union of power and opposition in the culture of reconciliation. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish you all the best and the best.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0114par0096	Thank you. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP asking for the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0115par0099	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group regarding Capital Market Law Bill 337 rows. I salute you all. We know that the three parties of the system have no major objection to this law in Congress. In their one-page opposition, they say a touch or two. But we have an objection, the Peace and Democracy Party, the Labour, the Freedom Block, the Party's very clear objection. Because this law, which protects capital against labor, is so consciously prepared that the path leading to fascism is, in a way, a pattern of goodwill. Look, I'm gonna take you on a little history trip. Who founded the Capital Market Board? The coup of September 12 was one of the first acts done by Canaan's Universe, 82nd year. Who set it up? The coupgers set it up. Good luck with that. It's the beginning. What did he do? Pays, bonds, bonds, debt tools, investment funds, securities, future transactions, etcetera, it's done well. Who was behind these coups? At first, America had international capital, and when it established this Council, the generals took their share of it, as well as the coupists and collaborators, and began exploiting the country and exploiting the workers. So that's the rest of the '94 depression after January 24th. Look, be careful, 94 depressions. Turkey's economy is confused in 94 depressions. Let's go through with this. He took it from public corporations, capital companies, offshore, bank banging, bank siphoning, 2001, 2001. Billions of liras -- $100 billion -- were paid by the taxpayer's tax from the treasury. Where did all this money go? Yesterday, it's not too far, isn't it the result of this robbery, this looting, this exploitation order, this system of cruelty, this forbidden mentality that imposes poverty on the citizens, that imposes corruption? Now that we've been around, we've come to 2008; there's been a financial crisis in the world, a global crisis, and the banks are starting to sink, and Turkey's been out of control. In 2011, the rules of İMKB have been set, more recently; behind the People's Supply Expedition Protocol. In November 2012, the public company opened 25 euros, IPO $4.997 million, and the IPO is $4.5 billion. Now, I'm passing the COBIs. He's a portfolio manager. As part of the Istanbul Financial Centre, come to the foreign institutions with a tax advantage, you have the advantage, you have the tax low, you don't have a blockage, you say free, interest free, rants, profits, come. So, who's going to pay for it? Are we going to open up this country's values, fortunes, the wealth of this people? Look, my friends, the tax incentives have also increased the Entrance Capital Investment Partnership. Then, the IMKB has issued a November 2012 Computation Act Again with the stock markets! Look, I'm counting what's been done before the law, like this big log. Then, you know, there were these precious mines -- like diamonds -- where the VAT was zero. Forex -- dösiz, goods, leveraged transactions based on precious mines -- comes to life in 2011. 18 agencies are in operation; the Investor Education Expedition Business Union Protocol, Financial Education National Strategy and drafting Action Plan. As he said in the European Union, I'll bring you to him... Then ESMA comes into our lives, guys, this ESMA is a different ESMA, you know that. The 2012 European Union Capital Market Authority is ESMA. He told us: "Bring up the law on the market of capital. The Turkish Trade Law, the Law of Debts, the fundamental laws, which have changed in the last year. Now, looking back, we're taking global steps. Look, the OECD's forum of MENA, SEDAK, the U.S. Capital Market Authority SEC, IMF, EBRD, World Bank, IFSB-- we get national minds from them, international relations go on. Now, we're going to make Istanbul a financial center; we're going to give advice, we're going to sell minds. Let me tell you some of the countries we're going to sell minds to: Kosovo, Oman, Kyrgyzistan, Tanzania, Mongolia, Algeria, and we'll advise them. What would happen if you had thought of that, for God's sake, to these countries? What's it worth to raise all these countries in the capital market? Did you do a reckoning on that? It doesn't fill a seed in a tooth, you know, it's a shame to count it. Look, of course we didn't come to this SEC law easily. It's the name of a global collaboration that protects the market-based investor, exploits the citizen, robs him, turns him into an onion. This law, my friend, is the name of global cooperation. I'm going through now. The Independent Control Center, the TAKAS institutions, the stock market, an anonymous company, all for capital. You know, billions will be played, designed, and that's the budget of this company, this Capital Market Board, 95 million, 510,000 liras, which is going to play billions this year. Now, the SPK is given vague powers, broad powers. Is there such a law, my friends? Can you tell me, like, what kind of transactions are? I'm telling economics experts, where are the transactions, what capital market does they have? Now, fraud is taken from the Turkish Penal Code, from the Turkish Trade Law, which is mounted on this law. Then, TOKI dives in here. Mashallah, there's no place this TOKI didn't go. This is TOKI entering the capital market, entering the land, entering national education, entering schools, entering disaster, entering ranta, entering urbanization. Mr. Secretary is here! I mean, why isn't there a Babacan here? For God's sake, why isn't there a Minister of Finance? Why isn't the Minister of Development here? Can you tell me why there are no ministers here?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0116par0113	He's coming, he's coming.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0115par0114	Is he coming? He's coming in late for five, so he's coming in late. Look, what is reasonable doubt about information abuse and market fraud? Is there a father-in-law here who can tell me reasonable doubt? Let him convince you, and we'll call you yes. You have to eat 10 tons of baked bread to explain reasonable doubt to lawyers like us, I'm telling you. Now, Stock Exchange Istanbul is a beautiful company. I wanted to take you a little further, but time is limited. The European Union wanted it, so we had to make this law according to the matching program. Friends, if the European Union doesn't want you to eat, drink, or not breathe? Is everything the European Union wants true? If it's true, do it properly, and neither is he. Look, I'll tell you one or two interesting things: exchange certainty, freedom of contract, protection of investors, framework contracts, loss from false and misleading information, and public supply will come forward. Interference in matters such as transparency, accountability, proportionality, consistency is literally stepping forward. The interest will increase, it doesn't matter; it will play in foreign currency, it doesn't matter; inflation will increase, it doesn't matter; the important thing is that the financial sector will marry companies and banks in the capital market. You're going to have a Catholic wedding, and you're going to put banks into this market, and you're going to start a Stock Exchange Istanbul Inc private company on all of these private companies, so don't let this Parliament inspect it. Let him who eats, let him who takes. Isn't that right? Yeah. Now, it's not just that. Look, there's an interesting substance in this law that you've examined. There's a secret witness in this law, you know? There's a secret witness in the crimes committed on this free market. Friends, if there's a secret witness, you'll be afraid. Now, there's the secret witness, the active regret, where there's an active regret, there's a hidden witness. Now, here's the secret witness, codenamed the secret witness, code name the secret dollar. Come on, let's get out of here! Who's fucking with who, guys? Who's kidding who? So there's going to be corruption here, you're going to limit the Central Bank in the market, you're going to remove control of the Court, you're going to give an advantage from the blockage to the tax, you've already reduced the corporate tax from 35 per cent to 20, and you're going to encourage Istanbul to become a financial center. Oh, fear God, and you're banning the worker from strike, no strike. So you're bringing a strike ban on the worker so far in this sector, in the banking sector, in the free market, in every field, you're eliminating all the rights of a trade union with all the workers in it. May God grant you wisdom. The ILO-milo contracts, the ones you threw away, the ones you talked about, it was a lie. In the September 12th referendum, you walked around the squares and took votes to get collective rights, which is all forbidden to you. Aha, here's the free market, the financial sector, and the bank sector, after the aviation business. Aha, if that's what it takes, you won't get a single vote from us. We're on the side of labor, members of a party that argues that the worker's rights, the law, the organization, the union. Yeah, well, don't look at your Prime Minister, he's coming out, yapping on TV. Look, we're the party that makes this policy the best in the House. We are the only democratic main opposition party in this House, making the most dynamic, most effective policy. That's what's bothering me. Thank God for our immunity, we don't have a single speech from the financial center, the free market, the banking industry, the tender, the fraud, the theft, the stealing, the eating, the lying, the slandering. We'll talk about it very easily, we'll find the speech law ourselves, fellas. Now, I want to tell you something else interesting. Here's a note from Fitch's international credit rating agency, investment bank. Turkey received an investment-able country rating. Fine, I'll take it. Now, Turkey is a good port. Are they reliable, friends? It's reliable. Is there a law? I do. Is there justice? I do. Are there freedoms? I do. Prosperity? Mashallah. Traffic, Istanbul, tomallah, flowing traffic. And then? After that, the most beautiful National Geographic... this week, read it, I recommend it to everyone. Everyone take one magazine and tell them what happened to someone who came to Turkey with a hidden camera, to their historical locations, to Sultanahmet, to their own place, to their own place of travel on Istrillal Street. How safe! You know, the financial center, where they're going to cash out, where they're going to build their companies, where they're going to walk around Istiklal Street, where they're going to go to Emininun, where they're going to go to Sultanahmet, where they're going to eat shish kebabs, and there's not going to happen to them. If nothing comes, a gas bomb will fall on their heads at 100 meters, after Idris Naim Şahin is in this country; if he accidentally goes to Istiklal Street, Taxi Square, he falls into the pit, he falls out of the tunnel, a gas bomb falls on his head and falls into traffic, he can't get out of traffic for three hours. Now, you're going to take this story seriously. In this country, if Rasmussen says that the Partriots are under my control. If he says that this international capital market is under the control of another subsidiary, conglomerates. If he says that you are in control of the IMF, the World Bank. There's no other explanation for this because the capital market is not in control of the AKP, it can't be. You'll build an Istanbul financial center, you'll get opportunities. What opportunity? Building, looting, land. Mashallah, the usual names got the contract right away. I don't name names, it's publicity, but everybody knows. Now, I'm going to monopolize the financial and bank market here. You say, there's spring in the Middle East. This spring, the dictators will fall. Dictators have money. These funds will flow to the Istanbul financial centre; this hot money, this liquidite, will stop at this safe port. It won't stop, fellas. If you take not 10 Patriots, but 100 Patriots, if you live in this state with Syria, then you can't be a safe port if your Minister of Energy is down on the plane -- without landing in Erbil. Put this on your head. If three missiles go off, it is not safe for Turkey's Istanbul, nor for Ankara, nor for İzmir. Put this on your head. These Patriots, the shields set up in this sphere, none of them are coming for Turkey's black-eyed eye, and three agents, three bombs, three planes will destroy all your dreams, but as a conscience, I say this: Take the same tax from the worker that you received from them. Look, it's minimum wage. Do not take twice as much from the worker, and do not burden 80 per cent of the indirect taxes on the working people. This money that's gonna come up here, it's gonna count, there's not gonna be any investment, there's not gonna be any employment. If you don't get this money, it's gonna go away, it's gonna go away in a missile explosion. What did Putin say? Your Patriots are old. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's not like playing Russian roulette. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0117par0126	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Surayya Sadi Bilgiç, Isparta MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0118par0129	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. I have a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the Capital Market Act. In the 21st century, the world financial system has seen significant changes and developments in both sizes and the diversity of capital markets. It appears that our country is among the emerging markets and has an important development potential, especially when an assessment of various criteria, such as the market capital market size, is considered to be one of the most important criteria used to compare the sizes of the capital market. The global crisis, which has been going on since 2008, has led to a significant loss of confidence in the global-level capital markets, resulting in the turning of eyes into emerging markets like our country. In the Turkish economy, the economic stability and the prospects of positive talks over the past decade have undoubtedly provided the economic climate for the development of our capital markets. In the coming period, it is intended that our capital markets develop rapidly and become able to compete with the world and pioneer accordingly. After the global crisis, you're aware that the ideas that financial institutions and financial markets should be organised tighter by regulators have been strengthened and reformed in this direction around the world. It is mainly aimed at promoting transparency and new regulations that will increase the monitoring of institutions that pose a risk on the financial system, and also take into account the issues of credit rating companies, free funds and the control of complex derivative products and how to handle risk management in financial institutions. A new capital market law is needed for two main reasons: First of all, the 80-year-old Capital Market Law has been implemented in an environment that has limits in terms of financial markets. The changes made in the years 92 and 2000 were generally drawn within these borders. So it's not a fundamental goal to address our capital markets on a global platform, to build a competitive structure and to make a center of attraction. This bill aims to repair this deficiency. The financial crisis, which has been under way since 2008, has also set new standards for the organisation of financial markets, while also offers historical opportunities for countries with the potential for serious development, such as ourselves. The positive economic developments, the stabilisation of global competitive conditions, require the development of legal infrastructure. With these rapid changes in the world's capital market regulations, our country's capital market legislation has to adapt to these developments. With this bill, our capital markets are being discussed on a global platform, adapting to new standards, while important steps are being taken to become an international attraction through advanced legal norms. Mr. President, it is wrong to look at the laws governing commercial life and financial markets in today's world as pure legal texts. Laws serve the purpose of implementing conscious choices regarding markets and organised sectors. This feature also shows itself in various parts of the bill. If there is an example, it is only a few of them that can be established by portfolio management companies, the establishment of investment partnerships that have no nominal value in their share, the possibility of a numeral exporter under the nominal value. The market has been preempted on the facts and needs around here. At the beginning of the basic approaches based on drafting the bill, the Capital Market Law is a market regulatory text, and it is always necessary to address the exporter, the equity investor, and the market functioning together. There are two things that are required to be maintained throughout the draft with this understanding: The first is that the new law, although it may come into detail from time to time, has to remain a framework law. The second is that the authority to make secondary arrangements that ensures the flexibility needed for markets should be given to the regulatory authority. Mr. President, valued lawmakers bring remarkable openings to the draft, especially in terms of institutional management. According to various qualities, such as market size, public openness rate, financial stability and strategic importance of its sector, the institutional governance principles are required to be fully or partially enforced. The board has also given the council the authority to seek precautionary action to determine or abort the violation of procedures if necessary principles are not followed, and to ask for a decision to be made in accordance with the obligation to comply in the open case. In this scope, the right to separate the share of the share and the share of the share of the share of the share of the share of the share, the important transactions, the process of being called to general council meetings, the Nisaps, the general board of decisions on important transactions, the right to vote negatively or to disqualify and sell the share of the shareholders who claim to participate in the general council or to invite them, under certain conditions and a fair price. While drafting the New Capital Market Law bill, it has been considered important to be in harmony with Turkish Trade Law 6102, although they have different perspectives. In this framework, radical changes brought to our trade law by the new Turkish Trade Law have been taken into account as long as the differences stemming from the specific properties of the areas of both laws. In the Bill of the Capital Market Law, the provisions for the completion of new Turkish Trade Law laws have been issued at the points where public companies and capital market institutions require their specific properties. If you look at the changes in general, the changes are basically listed under the protection of investors, capital market tools, exporters, financial reporting, independent control, rating and evaluation, capital market prices, brokers and self-responsive institutions, institutional investors, audits and market crimes and sanctions. Regarding the protection of investors through the bill, the sensitivity in the existing law has been improved, and the balance between the functioning of the market and the protection of investors has been taken, especially in terms of privileged shares and investors' concessions. Again, radical changes are being made regarding the bill and the exporters, one of the main actors in the capital markets, and the vehicles exported. Serious developments in the capital market area and diversity in capital market vehicles have also been reflected in the approach of the bill. The definition of capital market vehicles has also been expanded to include derivative tools in parallel with international regulatory approaches, in order to prevent possible jurisdictional turmoil in the current situation. One of the most important changes regarding exporters is the removal of the board registration system and instead the adoption of the explanation by the board. The concept of the statute of limitations of the declaration is also organised for the first time on the basis of the country's legislation, where additional and amendments can be exported for 12 months on the basis of the confirmation and a declaration. The burden of wrong, misleading and incomplete information in the statement, which is a very important document in terms of the investment decision, has also been expanded in terms of the importance of the document. In parallel to this goal, public lighting documents have been introduced as a separate concept in the legislation for the first time. However, the compensation rights of investors who operate based on public lighting documents, which are generally wrong, misleading, and incomplete, have been determined by those responsible for the release of those responsible. While all this is being done, it has been tried to adopt a balanced approach to establishing investor confidence and determining responsibilities born of knowledge. Another important arrangement is that partnerships are required to apply to the stock market for processing within two years, at the latest, after receiving public partnership status. Again, the scope of the bill's obligation to explain to the public has been expanded, and it is also intended to further enlighten the public. Dear President, valued lawmakers, the current laws on financial reporting and independent control, the new Turkish Trade Law and Public Watch, the Government of Accounting and Control Standards, are also redacted under provisions in the Court of Law. The financial table and reports are organised to be prepared and presented according to the standards set by Turkey's Accounting Standards. Again, the principles concerning the acceptance of the financial table and the declaration of the reports are clearly laid out in the law, which will be responsible for the deficiencies of the exporter and the members of the board, according to the requirements of his deficiencies and circumstances. The amendments to the bill in terms of the key actors in the capital market area are mainly operational, rather than institution-based regulation in the existing law. The rights of those who provide guarantees and those who provide guarantees are protected as part of the bill under UNIDROIT regulations related to international private law. The establishment of legal infrastructure for the regulation, control and surveillance of central exchange institutions has been established, and the determination of the capital market tools for which the central opposing entity will first take over the role of the central opposition, as well as the central exchange of entity services, and the rules that they will be subject to are regulated, supervised and supervised. For the first time, the legislation has been edited for data storage agencies to store information on transactions in the capital market, as well as activities for Central Recording Board, which have become one of the components of the capital market within the framework of the new Turkish Trade Law and the market's needs. A closer review of systematic risks with new and improved institutional structures such as central exchange, central opposition, data storage and central records is intended to prevent them from becoming a threat to the national economy. The bill also established infrastructure for this issue by guaranteeing the end of the exchange of transactions carried out in financial markets for the first time in parallel to international practices. These guarantees are protected against foreclosures, hostages, and similar legal practices, especially given the issue of the use of guarantees left to trade institutions in the end of the exchange. Dear President, the esteemed MPs, as it is known, the stock markets are inextricable actors in the functioning of the capital market. This bill, which aims to move a renovated and developing country among the developed markets, was the first to create infrastructure for the establishment of markets as an anonymous company. This arrangement will enable our country's stock markets to work more effectively in this competitive environment. On the other hand, the concept of the pharmaceutical operator was first organised as part of the bill, and in the event that the stock markets operate under a holding roof, which is seen in some foreign practices, there was also a supply of materials in order to be authorized by the public, not just by the stock markets, but also by the holding company. As it is known, one of the key factors to encourage savings that are important for our country's economic growth is institutional investors. As you can see in international examples, active and independent corporate investors contribute to the market's presence of quality and different products, and change the understanding of short-term investment, helping capital markets to achieve price stability. As we aim to do in recent arrangements in the individual pension system, the establishment of trust through institutional investors in capital markets and the accession of new investors to capital markets will contribute positively to increasing the savings rate. With this understanding, regulations for the institutional investment sector to become more competitive and act independently from related financial institutions are brought in. The most important change in this scope is the arrangement for the creation of investment funds only by portfolio management companies. With this change, institutions that specialize in fund management will contribute to the development of this sector. On the other hand, as a result of the assessment of sector conditions, there is no obstacle to the fact that portfolio management companies continue to provide investment management to individual and corporate individuals outside of funding management. So we think there will be a more effective portfolio management sector where the efficiency of specialized institutions will increase in the market and in investment management, where good and bad can be distinguished. On the one hand, the portfolio management companies can be fund founders, and on the other hand, the fact that they can mediate investment fund participation shares, will allow for limited access to distribution channels, but well-run funds to be marketed. This will also open the way for competition in the portfolio management sector. In order to ensure investor confidence, measures are also being taken to preserve assets in the portfolios of investment funds and partnerships. To this end, the bill defines a hiding service for the assets of institutional investors, as well as the responsibilities of companies that will run the portfolio storage service. As a new type of company for Turkish law, the organisation of a variable equity investment partnership is also a major change in the legislation on institutional investors. Dear President, valuable lawmakers, the bill also has extensive regulations on market control. The scope of the audit is intended to be extended and to use the institution's control authority more effectively. Although there was a criminal complaint against those responsible for not returning the money collected from the public via the unauthorized public supply, which is important to our country, the victims of the paying citizens were unable to be compensated. For the first time, the bill envisioned procedures and foundations for the return of money collected by illegal exports. It is also explicitly arranged that individuals who have been identified as transferring covered profits should return the amount they have been transferred to the company. In order to deal more effectively with unauthorized capital market activities, arrangements for unauthorized activities carried out through the electronic environment should also be considered an important step towards combating illegal activities. In this way, it will be possible to deal more effectively with the crimes committed via the Internet and to prevent the abuse of investors by bad, decent individuals. The bill has made changes to market crimes and sanctions in order to ensure the effectiveness, effective and deterrence of regulations. The criminal type known as manipulation (, "Manipulation") is a criminal scam, and the criminal type known as the trade of those who learn from within is widely organized under the name "knowledge abuse." With the bill, it has also been provided to reintegrate the interest gained by predicting effective remorse for the labour-based market fraud. The bill has been determined as a covert profit transfer, a crime of abuse of trust, and has been ruled to be grounded for no less than three years. It has also been provided to reintegrate the interests of this crime into the economy, including active sentences of regret in connection with the covert transfer of earnings. One of the most important innovations about market crime in the draft is that for the first time in Turkish law, a characterization of the parapiasmist action is added to the draft of a new clause. Dear President, valuable lawmakers, by considering the new law and the developments following the recent economic crisis, I have briefly summarized the major changes above in order to overcome the current problems, ensure trust in capital markets and ensure the position our markets deserve on the international platform. These provisions will also provide significant gains for our country. First, the infrastructure of financial markets will be increased in terms of legislation and will also make significant contributions to the vision that Istanbul is the financial centre. In addition, the new Capital Market Law will help make our country a safe haven for all financial actors, especially investors. It will be supported by the support of legal regulations with technical infrastructure, as well as by the turning of our country into a center of attraction. As I end my words here, I wish the bill to be good for our country, thank you for listening to me, I salute you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0119par0166	Thank you. Alaattin Yüksel, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0120par0169	Mr. President, good lawmakers, violence isn't just about filling intellectuals, journalists, mayors, generals into prisons. Bullying is not done by beating, kicking students who want free education, or by giving them eight years of punishment. Bullying doesn't happen by putting lawmakers in dungeons. Bullying doesn't happen with Ergenekon cases, sledgehammer cases, ACK cases. Pressure and bullying can also be done in modern ways, in the name of democracy, in the name of AKP law. You take control of all independent institutions -- the competition institution, the IMK, the BDDK, the finances, all very powerful weapons -- and then you put them on top of what you want. The government is trying to spread its oppressive, tyranny into every aspect of life. Every bill he brings to parliament's agenda is so flexible, it's so heavily charged with antidemocratic, powerful powers that all laws -- such as urban transformation, 4+4+4, like 2/B, can turn into a dangerous weapon in his hands. The government, even individual ministries, can eliminate different parts of society, non-partisans, with these weapons, with these laws. The government's Privatisation Administration is one of the most influential institutions. He can make arrangements like an elephant in a zoom shop that doesn't make sense to get the units he's trying to privatize to read at higher prices. In Izmir, for example, in the centre of the city, in order to privatize the port of Alsancak from higher prices, to create new jobs for the allies, new rants, in the centre of the city, he can plan the largest shopping centre of 38,000 square metres of Turkey, he can think of building a 38,000 square metres of hotel, he can think of shops. Smyrna's traffic has been paralyzed, the city's traffic has been paralyzed, Istanbul has been transformed, you don't care, your government doesn't care. The business of 400,000 merchants in Izmir is difficult and troubled, and he does not care at all. Dear lawmakers have been treated with the same understanding as the drafting of this bill. We will build Istanbul as a financial centre. They are trying to create a new value by co-opturing the IMKB (IMKB) with the Golden Stock Exchange, which will not be worth their money alone. This value will be called the Istanbul Stock Exchange Anonymous Company. This bill is a privatisation project. Deputies, VOB, or Future Operations and Optional Exchange, are a value created by the Izmirians. It was founded in 2005 as a result of intensive efforts by the Izmir Trade Exchange, 17 per cent partnership of the Izmir Trade Exchange, 25 per cent partnership of the TOBB, 18 per cent of the IMKB, and a small share of our eight important banks. Turkey is the first and only derivative of products. The VOB quickly grew up to be a very important institution all over the world, becoming an important prestigious, reliable institution, successfully representing Izmir (Izmir) and Turkey in the area of the international capital market. At the end of 2011, the VOB increased the volume of the transaction at $3 billion in the first year to 440 billion euros, and the recent success of the VOB (VOB) will have boosted some of its appetites, which, in 2010, the government has devised a plan to assemble the Istanbul Financial Centre Project with IMKB, VOB, and Istanbul's Gold Stock Exchange under one roof. First, the government has dominated the administration of the IMKB (IMKB) by appointing more members on the boards of directors to a measure of stateing these institutions. After enslaving İMKB, an Izmirite has also put the value of İzmir (IMKB) into its head and has planned to destroy the VOB (VOB) with the hand of an Izmirian. Despite the objections of the entire Izmir. Despite the objections of all Izmir. Despite the opposition of the Izmir. The business community, the intellectual world, and the intellectual world, all of them, said it would be necessary, and you can't hide your daughter in your home. When we say, "What if we're reluctant?," he says, "It'll be forced on all the Izmirites from that day on." Dear friends, at the end of this bill, a summons clause was added with a motion given during the negotiations on the commission -- when there was actually no bill, when there was no subcommittee. Article 9 has been added with a temporary clause and the VOB is advised to surrender to the Stock Exchange, İstanbul Asş, for 5 per cent of the shares. When we look at this 5 per cent, where did you find it? In his statements, the IMK President asked, "How much would the Stock Exchange be worth when we combine the 4 separate rating companies under the same roof, the Golden Stock Exchange and the IMKB?" When the whole of Izmir was against it, there was a lot of pressure. They found that they would not volunteer, that with Turkey's first and only derivative market VOB, future transactions and options were given by the SPK, not understandable; this is a compulsion, forcing the VOB to surrender. We as Izmirans reject the concept of lowering the value of the VOB. The IMC president stated that if a TV programme merges with the IMBK on May 21st, it will increase the volume of the transaction four times. I mean, this is also a confession of the term VOB is equal to 3 IMKB. There was no interview with the VOB administration at all. It's a difficult purchase, it's an involuntary surrender, it's a rape, dear friends. And we're going to have two motions as a group by the time we get to these temporary materials. So he has no choice but to surrender, because instead of at least 5% of the VOB, we're going to demand that the VOB be raised to 8 per cent and that 76 valuable staff working at VOB be evaluated in the new Stock Exchange in Istanbul, Inc. These approaches are a heavy blow to the freedom of enterprise, which is the enemy of Izmir. We want the government to put aside their bullshit about adding value to İzmir, about serving İzmir. Just don't stop Izmir. Just don't seize our values, don't cast a shadow. In the first election, you'll get your answer from the Izmirites and from all Turkey, and like all bullies, you'll be in the dumpster of history. Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0121par0182	Thank you. Recai Berber, Manisa MP.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0122par0185	Mr. Barber says there's a rape. Find the rapist, the rapist! Mr. Barber, there's rape. He says, "Look, there's yelling, there's teasing."
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0121par0186	Mr. Aslanoglu, please... it doesn't suit the General Assembly, please watch your language, please...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0122par0187	But that's what Mr. Yüksel said, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0123par0188	Mr. Secretary will give you what you need in this matter.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0122par0189	Mr. Recai, answer this.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0124par0190	It belongs to the owner, sir. It belongs to the owner.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0125par0191	Mr. President, expand your sentence. The rape is not necessarily used in any other sense.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0124par0192	Here you go, Mr. Barber.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0126par0193	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the general draft of Capital Market Law, 337 rows. I salute your high council. This crisis, described as the largest financial crisis since the world's largest economic crisis of 1929, soon influenced the real sector in the world. Our country's financial sector has come out of the 2008 crisis without significant impact. In this, it was effective that after the 2001 crisis, our financial institutions were in good health and under strict supervision as a result of reforms to the financial sector during our governments and governments during that day. While our country will be in the developing group of countries, economic stability will have to continue for many years in order to achieve the level of developed countries in the coming period. The long-term continuation of that stability will also be possible if the legal infrastructure is renewed according to the conditions of the day. In this framework, developments in the world financial system after both the 2008 crisis and changes in our country's conditions have revealed the need for a comprehensive change in the Capital Market Law. With this bill, our country is receiving a brand-new Capital Market Law. This law aims to boost savings in our country as well as to ensure that our capital markets play a more active role in the most efficient use of these resources for the country's economy. At the same time, there is a comprehensive law that will provide and increase the confidence needed for the development of capital markets. Mr. President, what does the new Capital Market Law bill bring? Now, I'd like to talk about some of the innovations that have been brought in and some of the changes that have been made. Instead of the Investment Fund, which has taken on a very important function in terms of resolving investment victims' losses with the bill, the Investors Retribution Centre has been established to carry out this function, and the scope of compensation to this centre has been expanded compared to the current situation. The envisioned system provides a prepayment phase for the compensation of investors ahead of the disbursement of the provision, which will begin the process of compensation by the board within three months, in case the financial structures of investors are weakened. Again, the benchmark of the 250 partners in the current law, which has been passed to the public, has been adopted by the bill and the partnerships must apply to the stock market in order to be processed within two years, at the latest, after receiving public partnership status. In other words, it is now mandatory that public companies be quotad for the stock market. Mr. President, instead of the board setting a default rate, the board has been moved to implement the distribution of profits within the framework of profit distribution policies, which will be determined by the general boards of public partnerships, thus providing the companies with the flexibility to act in line with their financial structures and investment plans. The board has been authorized to set different bases in the sector and in the company, in order to prevent abuse of its freedom and ensure that the market can be decided in accordance with its needs. In order for public partnerships to be able to make donations and help, the original contract was stipulated that the companies would establish grant and assistance policies within the information of investors. Anonymous partners brought in under the Turkish Trade Law 6102 have been authorized to arrange the re-acquirement of the board for all public partners in order to address possible problems in implementing their own shares for public companies. For public partnerships, the board has been given the authority to determine the procedures and foundations to be followed in these proceedings, including mergers, division, exiting stock jeans, important assets. The board has been authorized to receive administrative fines, as well as to cancel the process and make-up measures, if these procedures are not met. On the other hand, the concept of separation has been established by participating in the general boards where decisions on important transactions have been made, or by giving the shareholders a right to sell their share to the company under certain conditions and a fair price. As the fundamentals of the earlier proposal for a share of the notice were carried out by the law, the sanctions that the board could impose if this obligation was not followed have been strengthened. Again, for the first time, the partners who reached a certain share price after the bid had been given the right to disinherit the remaining minority and to sell their share to the minority after the proposal. In addition, the ruling of the first general council meeting in public companies, which would again lose five years in a row, would be lifted from their privileges, so that the privileged groups would act in accordance with the interests of other partners, and that the inefficient governments would be replaced and the people who would run the company better. In addition to the criminal action, which is only in the form of administrative fines in the current situation, the decision to freeze voting rights is a precautionary measure. On the other hand, the board has been authorized to organise the rights to partnerships, which have been revoked or removed from their privileges, and to address the public-owned partnerships that have passed to the TMSF. The procedure of the General Assembly to be called to the meeting, the relevant times and the implementation of the conditions of the meeting has been revised, and the notice period for the general meeting has been extended in three weeks. In this way, investors were intended to be aware of the general board agenda and to increase their participation in the general council. The most important amendment to the general boards is the regulations for the decision-making of the decision-making of the general board on the restrictions, capital reduction and the important procedures mentioned in this law. The main agreement has been consolidated if there is no ruling on such matters. It was intended to prevent the partnership and the protection and reduction of the rights of the investors' property and profits, as the administrative fines, which members of the board had to endure because of their actions contrary to the capital market legislation, were mandatory for the members of the board in charge of the partnership. Mr. President, valued lawmakers are also another innovation that is important in this area, with the bill and the revision of the structure of the existing Turkish Capital Market Tool Association and the transformation of the union into a structure that allows not only the representation of media institutions but many capital market institutions. Another innovation has been brought to our Capital Market Board in determining investment assets that could be included in the portfolios of investment funds and partnerships in order to encourage institutional investors to invest in different financial products and to provide flexibility in rapidly changing financial markets. Dear lawmakers, the implementation of the bill and the audit has also been increased, and prison sentences have been prescribed for personnel or authorities who do not carry the confidentiality requirements for information and documents. With the bill, the basics of these are laid out in the law, with the concepts of previous rental certificates and assets rental companies, which have been issued with notification. Dear friends, I don't want to talk about matters related to the IMKB, because it's been a lot of polemics. We feel that it is wrong for Turkey to have capital markets under one roof, including the product market, to have stock markets under one roof, and to have an international stock market, because we believe that all values, including İzmir, Ankara, wherever in Turkey, belong to Turkey, will contribute to creating more important, greater values. Dear friends, with this law, at the same time, I believe it will strengthen our country's capital markets and economy and make a significant contribution to a higher standard of living. I wish our new Capital Market Law to the best of our country and our people. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0127par0221	Thank you. Members of parliament, you will now be asked and answered for 20 minutes. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0128par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as it is known, many of our citizens' money has been squandered by some companies and there have been serious casualties. Where are we in the fight against corporations that have disappeared or have been investigated by collecting citizens' money through this unauthorized IPO? How many citizens have been given money back for this struggle? Is this provision to or will it take any judgment on the removal of the victims of our citizens? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0129par0227	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0130par0229	Mr. Secretary, there's been an invention, 49 percent public interest. These companies are public, it's true. The government and control of these are publicized. It's privatisation, it's public record, it's 100 percent public... it's not possible for people to come and choose management, it's 49 percent vote, but we're missing it from public control. Mr. Secretary, the public must pay the people he appoints with honor. If the public is throwing away its administration and control, the public should pay public attention to its transactions, even if it is a public company. With just an SEC inspection, it shouldn't be enough. So, even if it's 49 percent, if the government and its control are public, will you answer for it? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, it means the public is running away from the account with dignity, and they don't answer with honor.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0129par0232	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0131par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, what is the number and percentage of foreign investors in the IMKB? That's what I wanted to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0132par0237	Thank you. Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0133par0239	Thank you, Mr. President. The bill cannot and cannot be shown, except to perform similar transactions in the name of the phone..... including the purpose of collecting public purchases -- including the purpose of receiving private persons -- can not be imposed, cautious, and cannot be included in the bankruptcy table. In the face of these provisions, the state property cannot be foreclosed on in Turkey. By order of the European Court of Human Rights, this is a violation of the rights of the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey has been sentenced to compensation in the form of Turkey, and while this decision is still new, does the Ministry not know whether or not to ignore this decision? Isn't there also a property rights violation here? Does it not mean that the Constitution violates the principle of equality? Why is the stock market needed for such armor? Why is this non-public privilege known to the stock market? Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0134par0244	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0135par0246	Thank you, Mr. President. How many companies are open to the public on the Istanbul Stock Exchange? Is there any work done by your Ministry on this? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0136par0249	Thank you. Mr. Original...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0137par0251	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in the coming years, you want to increase the volume of trade with Iran to $30 billion, but with the latest edition of the United States, you reduce the purchase of oil from Iran and predict a $100 billion volume of trade with Russia. You are also co-operating with the Kurdish Government of Northern Iraq and Barzani. Is your government's new strategy Russian and Barzani axisd? With the arrival of the Patriots, do you intend to reset the volume of trade with Iran? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0138par0254	Thank you. Mr. Baluken...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0139par0256	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we see a strike ban has been imposed on workers in the banking and financial sector in particular in this bill. How do you feel about the fitness of this to the ILO, and to the European Social Condition? And I'd like to know your personal opinion on such an arrangement against the workers in a bill that has been so favoured by foreign capital. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0140par0260	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0141par0262	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, as a member of the government, I ask you: you have eliminated the principle of secularism, as you have eliminated the Constitution's principle of equality, which eliminates this rich-facist division. Did you revolutionize against regulations? Do you not see the breach of the Constitution? How do you rate it? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0142par0265	Thank you. Mr. Flagtutan.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0143par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the Promotion Act, known in public as Law 5084, was implemented in 36 provinces in 2004, while the number of provinces included in 13 provinces added to it reached 49. Today, despite incentives for investment and employment in the provinces of Law 5084, businesses are forced to cover taxes, SEC and other costs. The period of the Enhancing Law expires on 31,12,2012, as it is known. Do you intend to extend that time? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0144par0272	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0145par0274	Mr. Secretary, at one time they were kings, the most important companies in the boards, the highest-value corporations, the government seized them. The government doesn't fool people. For example, Çukurova, Kepez, I can count a lot like this. What will these citizens do? If you give people bonuses every day, every day...... somehow people trust the government, enter the stock market, buy stock, but the next day the government seizes the papers of these people -- there are a few other companies like this -- there's just paper, there's nothing left. I wonder if they're victims. Didn't the government sacrifice these people? Aren't these companies worth anything? It's up to the government. If it's people's debt, take it, but unfortunately, the government has victimized people. We must take precautions against the victims of the stock market. Are you going to compensate for those victims, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0144par0275	Thank you. Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0146par0277	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, how appropriate is the appointment of this president of the stock market to the spirit of the free market economy? We think it's too much of a problem because it gives the government the right to intervene in capital, in the balance of the free market. What do you have to say about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0147par0280	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0282	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to first thank you for the contribution all our groups have made in preparation for the Capital Market Bill. There was a lot of interest in both subcommittee work and commission work, and with the help of many commissioners, the bill came to the General Assembly's agenda. This, in a way, will have established a sound and modern legal basis for our capital market, which has been in effect since the 1980s, under a law decree. Now, here, first, I want to focus on the management structure. In the administration, you know, we've come up with a view that 49 per cent of it will be owned by the treasure, but also by the IMKB, itself, and if they want, VOBAS shareholders will be able to share 5 per cent in IMKB, under the new name Stock Exchange Istanbul. We're still giving a 5 per cent stake to the brokers and the Association of Mediators. The gold market is also entering the Istanbul share structure of the Stock Exchange with a small share of 0.3%. But besides, there will be representatives of both the private sector and the public on the board. In the beginning -- the exact numbers are being made by friends now -- but we think of the 11-member board as public, special, but as this Stock Exchange increases the private sector of Istanbul in the future, as the public opens, the structure of this administration will no doubt be parallel to this.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0285	Sir, I didn't mention the stock market, I mentioned other companies.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0286	In your first question...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0287	Yeah, you mentioned other companies, not just the stock market. Turkish Airlines, for example.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0288	I think you call him Borsa Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0289	No, no, just... all of it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0290	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0291	I didn't say Borsa Istanbul. For example, Turkish Airlines, you don't answer.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0292	Now, the most important feature of public companies is that if we move from the example of Turkish Airlines...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0293	No, it's not just Turkish Airlines.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0294	What's the alternative to that? More than 50% is the ownership of the public. However, there is a very serious market control and market surveillance in companies where 51 per cent is open to the public.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0295	Madam Secretary, you're throwing.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0296	Now, maybe thousands of investors with 51 per cent shares, including Indians, international investors. These are, in fact, a very important auto-development, a system that contains the auto-control mechanism. Why would you say that? So, they've got billions of dollars tied up, is this company run by random, is there a waste, is it making the right decisions or not? We believe market control is a very powerful control. If there's a problem with these issues, if there's a problem, it's reflected instantly at the stock price. So we believe that an audit by partners, by private sector partners, is actually an effective mechanism to protect the public's share.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0149par0297	Minister, the shareholders have no control authority.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0298	Now, the same is true of the Stock Exchange in Istanbul. Another question was how much of the stock in the IMKB was taken by foreign investors. Sixty-five, 46 percent now appear in the portfolio of international investors, but there is no limit to that, no limit or any direction at all. It's a total number between the markets and the sellers again. We look at it from time to time, it's reduced to 60 percent, and it can come to higher numbers from time to time. Now, it's a figure that comes up at the end of transactions and transactions. And if we look at the number of foreign investors, we see 7,300 people, and we see that the market value of foreign investment is 131 billion dollars. This is Çukurova, there was another question about Kepez. Dear lawmakers, here's our point of view: the state has assured the deposit today. What kind of assurance? The savings deposit of up to 50,000 lira per person is guaranteed by the state. We also collect premiums through the TMSF channel, and in the future, we collect insurance premiums, which, God forbid, if a bank gets in trouble, is to protect the deposits of those who deposit savings in that bank for up to $50,000, but there is no such guarantee of the government regarding stocks investments. So for investors in the stock market, it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen, at least this much is guaranteed by the state, the state protects the money invested in the stock market, such as it's not government security; it's up to $50,000 for banks, but it's not in the stock market. So, in a way, the shareholders, the shareholders of that company, with plus and minus, with their risk, with their income, with everything. Those who go into those companies that the Uzan group owns, and those who buy that company, are also taking on the risk that the Uzans, in a sense, will do all kinds of work; the same group obviously did with the Imar Bank. So the most important thing for those who invest in the stock market is to look out for who they share in, which company they share, which company they invest in, and that's what they pay attention to. Of course, our Capital Market Board has powers, they have regulatory powers, they have control powers, and they have to use those powers effectively, without question, especially in terms of small investors, but that doesn't mean protecting the small investor from all kinds of harm. If the public company works properly, obeys the rules, acts in accordance with the principles, principles, regulations of the Capital Market Board, it is controlled in this regard. However, even though the Capital Market Board is acting in accordance with its regulations, the partners, no doubt, share the risks -- as much as their shares -- in the event that all commercial-source or practical risks are taking place. In addition, our judicial bodies and the ECHR (European Court of Human Rights) have decided that the implementation of this matter is in accordance with the law.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0150par0304	It's not built yet, so it's convenient for us. There's no such thing, there's no such provision in the current arrangement. How come?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0305	Also, about the number of companies that have closed this board, if the numbers are ready, let's just say it right now, or we'll answer in writing later. So far, there are 44 closed-down companies. Some of their activities have become impossible because of their bankruptcy. Because of the banks that the TMSF has seized, the order of operations for companies that have switched to TMSF has also been closed. Aktaş, Çukurova and Kepez, whose licenses have been revoked, have been shut down because their activities have stopped. So far, there's been a criminal complaint against 66 companies regarding the unauthorized IPO. The assets have been called for measures and information, but there's nothing in the law for refunds. So it's also a commercial risk; those who invest their money in the IPO without permission, now, by profit and in some way, by loss, by all means, by pros and cons, by profit. Again, recently, you know, some of these organizations -- you've followed them -- two conglomerates are now quotad in IMKB. These shares have been given liquidity. Court proceedings concerning the victims' claims for compensation are also under way. Therefore, if there is any compensation, they will be met by these companies themselves in the case of the courts' decision. The total number of companies operating in the stock market is now 404. For example, in this board structure just now, our design is this: one of the subsidiaries, one of the Capital Markets Association, one of the Chamber of Chambers, and eventually six of the public shares will be board members. There was something about energy. Dear lawmakers, our energy policy is that supply safety is very important in energy, because, you know, the most expensive energy is energy. So we want to diversify as many resources as possible to ensure supply security; that's true for both oil and natural gas. We're getting natural gas from Russia now, we're getting it from Iran, we're getting it from Algeria, we're getting it from LNG. However, in northern Iraq, you know, it's been established that there are very rich natural gas sources, and talks with Northern Iraq about oil and natural gas continue. The strike ban was mentioned. It's an app that happens in the world. In some critical sectors, the ban on strikes is not just for us, but for the world and for the European Union. So, as Turkey, we're not doing this outside of the European Union acquish. Because if you have one stock market, imagine that this stock market is closed because of the strike, and it's going to cost the total economy very, very much. Therefore, those who want to work in the stock market, those who want to work in banks, those who want to work in Turkish Airlines, in a way, know that there is no strike here when they enter these companies in the first place. If they care deeply about strike practice, then they would certainly prefer to work in a place where the strike could happen.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0151par0314	Mr. Secretary, will you extend the time in the incentive?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0315	I'm on my way to 5084. 5084, you know, there's an incentive system that started in 2004, and more than investment, there's actually a business incentive format of 5084. We're doing it in 49 districts. However, this is the identification of 49 provinces, you know, a 49 counties that have been detected in our 2003 socioeconomic development index. Today, we've moved on to a whole new incentive system. Socioeconomic development indexes have recalculated all provinces, applied to six regions. Now, our continuing a system of incentives -- 49 provinces -- based on the index in 2003 -- is going to be a serious contradiction with our new incentive system. There's a study right now on whether or not this should continue. But, here, I don't want to raise expectations. There may be a continuation of 5084, perhaps in part, perhaps by changing shapes, or it ended entirely on December 31, 2012. In this regard, at the moment, our relevant institutions, especially our Ministry of Economics, are working. I guess there's no question I haven't answered. If there's anything I missed, you can remind me.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0152par0317	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0153par0318	Unauthorized IPO...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0148par0319	That's what I said.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0154par0320	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0155par0321	End question-answer, take your seat.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0154par0322	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0155par0323	Mr. Tanal, there is no such procedure, but I promise you, go ahead. Please!
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0154par0324	Look, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0155par0325	Question-answer complete, time complete.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0154par0326	It's not a question-answer.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0155par0327	Sit down and I'll give you a seat. Okay, I get it.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0154par0328	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I hate to break it to you, but I think the information you've been given is false information. Because of that misinformation, you said: "In the European Court of Human Rights, our arrangement for this violation of property is appropriate, applied, rejected." See, there is no such legal arrangement in Turkey. You know, first of all, that you can't repossess what you're going to receive with such an arrangement... a separate exemption is a violation of your property rights. I'm saying that the state's property is not foreclosed on. He went to the European Court of Human Rights because of the declaration. In 2011, the state was sentenced to compensation. In that sense -- this is a new law -- but they gave you false information. Please, I beg you to fix this. My respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0156par0332	Thank you. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, let's begin the discussion of chapter 1. Chapter 1 includes Articles 1 to 30. Mustafa Kalaycı has been asked to speak for the National Movement Party Group on the 1st chapter.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0157par0339	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group to explain our views on the 1st chapter of the Capital Market Law Bill, 337 rows under discussion. On this occasion, I salute you all. For each country, the sustainability of economic growth requires financial growth and continuity of stability, which is possible if the institutional structure of the financial system is strong enough and dynamic enough and capital markets are deep enough and liquid enough. If this is not achieved, there may be problems with the crises that have arisen due to international fluctuations. Thus, vulnerability and risk from the banking operation of the financial system can only be reduced by the development of the capital market. In this regard, it is important for our economy to have the Turkish capital market in a strong institutional organisation, where markets become deeper and more liquid, to reach a point where the number of investors and compositions and the diversity of financial vehicles increase, and to take its place within the developed country's capital markets. Today, the Turkish capital market has some fundamental problems. The main structural problem of our capital market is the lack of investors. In our country, the most important investment tool in the capital market is undoubtedly stocks. According to Central Recording Agency data, there are only 1,66,000 locals in our country who own shares. This includes investors whose stock portfolio is less than $10,000 and has only 3 per cent of the total portfolio value. The number of investors with 10,000 liras and more portfolios is only 213,866. One of the reasons for inadequacies in the number of investors is the lack of investors' rights, and it's a question of trust. With the effects of problems in the past, the issue of insecurity in the capital market is still unresolved. Another problem with our capital market is that our financial reading rate is very low. The research shows that the low financial readership exists in public and private sector experts, and even in the academic world. Therefore, deepening and deepening capital markets should not only be considered a goal that can be achieved by technical studies, by legal regulations, but should also be done in all possible platforms of promotion and image renovation so that the capital market can gain the credit it deserves amongst the public and market actors. Dear lawmakers, the key factor that has affected the Turkish capital market is the lack of domestic savings in our country, and it has become increasingly inadequate. Ten years ago in Turkey, even at the 20 per cent level, domestic savings, which we call unsatisfactory, are now down to 13. Therefore, increasing savings in our country, which has been transformed by the economic policies of the AKP's government, is not only a matter of capital markets, but the most important problem of the Turkish economy that needs to be resolved. The economic policy implemented by the AKP's government so far has no production perspective, rather than production, consumption has been encouraged to borrow instead of savings. The level of savings has been permanently reduced during AKP rule, and in 2011 the republic has faced the lowest savings rate in our history. The savings rate was also 7.5 per cent in 2007, when it was 12.2 per cent in 2011, but according to the 20 per cent income tranche, the lower three-percent income group -- 60 per cent of the household's savings -- is negatively positioned, the two groups with the highest income, especially 20 per cent of the household's financial stability reports. If the income of a citizen is not enough to provide for him, how can he save money? The AKP government has failed to save money on citizens. The state's official figures and reports have made this situation clear. According to data on the sustainable development indicators released by the Turkish Statistical Agency on 28 September 2012, our country has 62.5% of the population at risk of poverty or financial deprivation as of 2011, and in this case, about two-thirds of our population is at risk of poverty. Much more critical, according to the calculation by the TÜİK, there are 43,26,000 people in severe lack of material wealth. This number corresponds to 60.4 per cent of our population, showing that three out of five today suffer severe financial deprivation. A citizen who can't afford a month's income is trying to make a living on a loan. Our citizens are loaded into bank consumer loans or credit cards, and their total debt exceeds $29 billion. The total of consumer loans and credit card debts increased by 39 times more than in 2002. The future of our citizens who have already exhausted their income in the years to come has been mortgaged. According to the Central Bank's financial stabilisation reports, the household revenue, which was 144 billion dollars in 2002, increased to $591 billion in September 2012. In contrast, the obligation of the households, which were 6.7 billion in 2002, reached 284.4 billion dollars as of September 2012. Thus, during the AKP's rule, the household's expendable income increased 4.1 times, while the household's obligation increased 42.5 times. The citizen's interest payments have increased by 12 times. In 2002, the number of households with 4.7 per cent of their obligations reached 48.1 per cent of their household income as of September 2012, so close to the 100 lira income of the citizen, $48.10 in debt. This is the summary of AKP's ten-year work; the citizen is now in debt to the throat. So how can a citizen who can buy daily food consumption on a credit card for 8 installments buy stock? You mean if they can't find bread, they should buy stock? At the level of domestic savings today, it is not possible to increase the number of investors in our capital market, as our citizen owes today, to bring enough depth to the capital market. There must be measures to increase the savings, to increase production, to increase the income of the citizens. Despite the average growth rate of 5.3 per year during AKP rule, the population's education level and living standards are very low. Despite this economic growth, according to TİK data, if 65 per cent of the population still lack high school education, the roof of 40 per cent leaks and if it has a heating problem, if 60 per cent can't eat well, if 80 per cent can't renew its aging furniture, this states that economic policies must be reviewed, or even late. Although our national income per capita is over $10,000, the reasons why not everyone can benefit from this income must be analyzed and the necessary measures must be taken. You probably don't want economic growth just so the hot money holders can make money, investors don't lose money on the stock market. I wish the bill well, with respect, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0158par0349	Thank you. Bkent Kuşoglu, Ankara MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of the department.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0159par0352	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have made a promise regarding the Capital Market Bill, whose number is 337. I salute you all. My dear friends, you know, the economy is a complex process of millions of complex events. It's hard to analyze the economy, it's difficult. In the economy, the capital market, the financial world, is a very important place. The capital sector is the blood of the economy, the life, the industry that gives it life. We could use a metaphor like that. And of course, we have the financial sector, the capital markets, very important. Our economy, you know, is a backward economy, a troubled economy. In this twisted economy, the capital markets, the financial sector are getting very important jobs. In particular, there have been significant developments in capital markets around the world over the past 10 years, and there have been major improvements in financial markets both in the direction of instruments, both in the direction of diversity and in the direction of quantity. As a result and as a result of this not being well-organized, as in 2008, we faced the most structural, deepest economic crisis. In 2000 -- I'm going to give you some numbers, and that's why -- foreign capital currents, which are $4.7 trillion in the world, reach $10.9; 11 trillion in 2007. This is a very big development for the world, a very fast development. Again, the total assets of foreign investors in other countries amounted to 9.6 trillion dollars in 1990, increasing by 10 times, reaching 96 trillion dollars in this 2007. It's an amazing number, an unprecedented number in the history of the world. Turkey did not benefit from this abundance of cash, I'm afraid. Of course, this has had a very positive effect on us, and Turkey has also benefited from this abundance of cash, but it has not benefited enough, and Turkey has only been able to benefit from this abundance of cash at enormous costs, and it has paid enormous prices. You know, since we've had high interest rates, we've been left at a very high cost over the past 10 years, and our capital market is behind countries like Malaysia and Indonesia, with the 2010 figures and the $197m market capitalization. Again, it was very far behind in terms of the volume of activity, because Turkey's savings, unfortunately, were insufficient, troubled. In many ways, he's fallen behind. As I just said, the main reason our capital markets are lacking is because of our economy's situation; our economy is backward, its warped structure and its low level of development. However, there were significant shortcomings in our legislation in the area of capital and financial markets. We had a financial market that didn't understand the new financial instruments in the world enough, but we were trying to grasp them as much as possible with our human resources, human structure, open to the world. Now, with the Capital Market Law Bill, we have a goal that's trying to fix all these shortcomings. With this bill prepared by highly concerned bureaucrats, technicians, these deficiencies, these shortcomings in the legislation will have been significantly compensated. In the commission, we, the Republican People's Party, have tried to provide substantial support for this issue, and as far as possible, we have tried to address the shortcomings we see in this matter. I think it's a good study, up to a certain point. But despite all our support, there are still some shortcomings, and I want to make them especially clear to you. For example, I see this very important issue, and we haven't discussed it in the Commission: funding management is a very important issue in capital markets, my dear friends, and fund management is a very important issue in capital markets. We're also entering a new era of capital markets in the world. You know, the Individual Retirement Act passed here last semester, and it's been passed. As for the individual pension law, we will begin to give out the first pensioners in the coming years at the end of a period of about ten or so years of practice. The Individual Retirement Act is also a law that requires fund management. Individual pension funds need to be well assessed. So far, individual pension funds have invested in treasure paper and IMKB, but in this period, the investments of individual pension funds into treasury paper, including inflation, have been pretty low. IMKB investments were better for individual pension funds. For him, especially at this time, it is inevitable that individual pension funds will turn towards IMKB, so individual pension funds may move to the capital market -- significantly more than treasury papers -- depending on the preference of those investing in this individual pension fund. You know, our IMKB is in the hands of a significant number of foreigners. I just asked, and Mr. Secretary said he'd probably answer in writing.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0160par0359	I said 62nd percent.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0159par0360	Did you say 62%? I missed it, Mr. Secretary. 62% in the hands of strangers. Now, at this time, foreigners can empty their funds, and we have to be careful about that, so they can empty the portfolios that they have, and sell them to those who want to move from our individual retirement to this side, who want to move from treasure paper to IMKB. I think this is a very important issue for Turkey, a sensitive issue. I'd especially like to ask the parties involved to be sensitive about this, and I think it's necessary. The other issue, though not as a bill in the Commission, is the Stock Exchange Istanbul Anonymous Company, which was later brought with an additional clause, with a temporary clause of 9. Now, we haven't discussed this enough, we haven't discussed this enough in the Commission. I think the establishment of the stock market in the form of an anonymous company is something that needs to be discussed. Beyond the establishment of an anonymous company, the presence of 51 per cent of this anonymous company in the private sector is also a separate discussion of who these private sector companies will be and how they will be. We've brought these to the General Assembly without arguing enough, and we're missing something very important here. I think we should have discussed this a lot more, discussed it more in the subcommittee, and then he should have come here. These matters need to be improved especially. Again, regarding this issue, this interim nine-point clause, which comes later to the Commission, contains provisions that should be held as a separate law, which should be held as a separate law. The details need to be discussed enough. For example, there is a period of land in the Üsniye region, near 1,600 acres to the TOKI. I believe this matter has not been discussed enough, and this needs to be corrected. Again, in the interim 9th joke, Borsa says that the chairman of the İstanbul Anonymous Corporation is the highest executive officer of the company, the dispatcher, the administration, and the sole representative and the authority of the institution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I believe that this is one of the things that needs to be fixed. I'll mention the rest when I get my word. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0161par0371	Thank you. Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP, who wants to speak on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0162par0373	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on the first part of the bill on behalf of our party. I salute you all. Of course, we don't think it makes much sense to go into the details of this bill, to focus on its details. Since we stand against the perception of this system as a whole, there's no point in saying here, there's no point in saying here, there's no point in us, because there's no point in saying there's no point in saying there's a real economy, there's no point in talking about money changing money and there's no point in over-reviewing this market arrangement as a result of money changing money. So what I'm going to focus on is this: Now, you have to see if a government does or does not gamble with a device, or does it regulate the arguments of gambling with the law or not. Whatever you call it, it's a gambling system. This arrangement that you've brought into existence, it's the same for the whole world, it's a disease of the capitalist economy. That's how you get the capital out of production and the money in exchange for money. You can't see any difference between gambling on a desk and gambling on a computer in the stock market. Think of a pool where you're going to feed that pool so you can make a transfer. Now, especially the public supply companies, etcetera, are developing a lot of arguments, but all of it, in essence, you fill a pool with certain taps, you drain it with certain transfer pipes, but in order for this system to stay in a continuous loop, water that comes in has to be equal to the water that's being released. It's just equality here: Small-income groups that have a little savings are somehow involved in this gamble, into this pool, and to make someone more rich through this system. I'd like to ask: is there ever a middle-income investor in this system that's rich? This system, which has been in Turkey for some 30 years, has been able to enrich some of its small-income citizens, by means of these public supply companies, to increase its capital by five cents? You can't show a single example, but the number of billionaires on the other side, the number of dollar billionaires is going up a little bit more every day. Another joke is that this arrangement was brought up immediately from today's point of view: Now, you know, there are actually two or three major centers in the world where this great gamble is being played. One of these centers is America, one is England, one is Far Asian capital. This capital, which returns only in the United States and Britain, is more than 50 per cent of the world's market capital, but through this law, we are striving to address only 3 per cent of the world's capital market that we target. It's basically Russia, the Russian stock market, whether or not we're rivals to the Russian capital market. This year alone, the hot money entering the Russian market is around $74 billion. There's an effort here to see if we can get a little more of this slice of cake. As we develop this effort, we take some basic risks. One of the basic risks... Now, dear friends, we're talking about the speculator capital that's going around the international capital market and can't find a place for itself at the big table, and we're talking about speculators. At the big table... we're talking about the capital slice that sits at any table that opens up and escapes whatever comes out of it. It is also understandable that Russia is the cause of choice. Now, you're trying to lure these speculators to Turkey. Look, I'd like to remind you of the velvet revolutions in the Caucasus. I'd like to remind you how these speculators can interfere with the governance of the country. The next bill opens as many doors as possible. And when you look at it in detail, you see, at first, you see that you open the door a lot, and then you see how slowly you're closing these doors a little bit more, and you see the effort to create a little bit more safety valves in this design, and eventually you bring it in, and you create a monopoly. It's a monopoly abandoned directly to the government, so there are similar arrangements in many areas, but it looks a little more naked here. The government is based on the implementation system in the iron curtain countries here. He's trying to get more powers on his own, and, basically, he's trying to be the biggest investor. When you think about it in many ways, it's something with handicaps. You're really putting country administration at risk, these speculators will give you a headache the day after tomorrow. I don't want to remind you of a name, but when you think about international speculators, certain people come to mind. The day after tomorrow, in Turkey's market, these people will start running wild, and they'll have to impress you directly. You might say, "No such thing is possible." You might say, "No such thing." But really, you need to feel this danger, and it will eventually knock on your door. Amenna, we say nothing's happening to us. But in the end, it's a matter of the future of all of us here. Under the direction of international speculators, we do not desire a country to rule. This bill opens the door for him. This global crisis in the world is often assessed. See, this is the source of the global crisis in the world. You bring this troubled situation here with your own hands, you attempt to implement it yourself. International speculators can't possibly contribute to the country's economic development, you can't see it. They get more out of this market, they take advantage of your high-end budgetation weakness, but in the end, we all lose because of this system. Therefore, there is no way for us to approve of this bill, we are against its foundation, there is no need to enter into it. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0163par0382	Thank you. Mehmet Günal, Antalya MP who asked for a personal word on the department.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0164par0385	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, this law is a necessary law and a delayed bill that has not been changed in many years. There have been crises around the world, changes in Turkey, regulations in other laws, but there has been no radical regulation in the capital market. Therefore, we agree on the general basis of the law, that some arrangements were needed, even delayed. So, in the subcommittee work, and in the work of the Plan and Budget Commission, we've changed a lot of things, and we've done a lot of work, and we've done some work together with our friends and our fellow bureaucrats. They took into account some of our criticisms, some of them remained, but in general, we, as an MHP, have no view of the general law, but there are certain specific arrangements, which we have delivered to them during our discussions with both the opposition and the subcommittee. Now, there are preparations for a motion on certain substances. Some of them we agree on, some of them we don't, but yes, some of them still lack more, unfortunately. Now, my dear friends, there's a part here that goes against the law-making technique. I made a promise to say that in person. Now, under normal circumstances, if an important law has to get out of here, it's being drafted as a proposal or a bill and transferred to commissions. If it's something technical in the commissions, it's being transferred to the subcommittee, good. So we set up a subcommittee, worked on it. Now, a motion that's not on the subcommittee, and then when we get to the top commission, it comes at the last minute when we sit down and talk. Okay, there's a slight change, it's added at the last minute, it's noticeable, it's the request of bureaucracy, it can all happen. But now, my dear friends, if this motion is five or six pages apart, if it has about 20 separate sentences, then what's the point of our subcommittee report? So, now, our friends may be well-intentioned -- I said common cause -- the general motive may be justified, but there's a law-making technique, and there's a law-making regulation that you're in. Some things go through these processes, it says. Now, we're looking at its content, so let's go through the procedure thing, so once these provisions are not regulated with the interim material, these are the fundamental provisions and subcontracted regulations, as well, we're ruling on certain issues. It's supposed to be standard matter, but since we're there, it's only added to the last item. But here's what I've handed over, and I've got this. If you say so. Now, you're going to start a new company, like privatizing the stock market, and the shares will be determined, and the properties will be taken over, and we'll organize it with a temporary clause. Now here, Laws Decisions... I sometimes find it hard to understand, we've had the same experience in the Metropolitan Law, we've had the same argument on the commission. Let's hurry. It's one thing to call it something else, but it's another to get it out of the way. And when the opposition objects to that, there's no need to be so angry and offended, it's necessary to bring it in the proper way. Again, we do our opposition, you fix it, you fix it, you don't fix it, we do our criticism again, you spend it with your thumb majority, but we do it the right way. You see those reviews, maybe you fix them, if you don't like them, we tell the public, they see them, they take care of them. That's what's bothering us here, guys. So there's 51 percent going now, 49 percent of the government's friends don't have a concession request in it? We say, "Well, I'll put it in the regulations." Now, how do you expect me to accept it? The Constitution has a gold share application on strategic institutions, even in the Constitution, leave the law. Well, now we don't put it into the law, we call it a subprime stock. Here, all of this has to come up with a debate, a glide. If it fits your conscience, I'm not saying anything. So the intention of this is right, it's wrong, it's something else, but in essence, they need to go through a filter and get in front of the House, and you need to be able to study them. So, while we're in charge of this, let's say these things, because in the last chapter, our friends have brought in some arrangements, and hopefully they'll heed our warnings. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll have motions in other parts. He says he'll be better off with them, finishing up the loose ends, so I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0165par0396	Thank you. Vedat Demiröz, Bitlis MP, who asked for a personal word on the department. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0166par0400	Thank you, my dear President. My fellow lawmakers have provided the stability and confidence of our country over the past decade as well as an environment for the development of our capital markets. This has made it necessary to change and develop legal infrastructure to ensure that our capital markets can compete with the world. This framework drafts the Capital Market Law, which is discussed to establish a new legal and technical infrastructure, considering the systemic and structural risks of global economic crises on capital markets. Dear lawmakers, there are two main issues to be maintained throughout the bill: one of them is to be given to the regulatory authority the authority to ensure that the bill remains a framework law and that the markets are granted the necessary flexibility. The second is a market-based approach, in other words, to consider the needs and facts of the market as a market editor text. One of the primary targets of the bill is the protection of investors. This framework included some new regulations, including the balance between the functioning of the market and the protection of investors, as well as the current law on the protection of investors. The bill is removing the system for the transfer of capital market vehicles to the currently envisioned board registration for export or public supply, instead the system for the adoption of explanation. Precious lawmakers are determined by the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the Court of Ministers on the basis of the 4th article of the law (6) and on the procedure and the basis of which it is required to be prepared for the collection of money through this investment contract and on the proposal of the Council of Ministers for any means intended to provide financial funding for an initiative. This article aims to bring in control of the collection of money from the public through a variety of channels of projects designed by companies in today's housing sector, and through an investment agreement described as selling from the machine. It would be more appropriate if we agreed that what was intended to be brought in on this clause should be arranged under the Law on Turkish Trade Law and the Protection of the consumer, which is more likely to be held within the framework of the Ministry of Customs and Trade. But if I may say a few words here, with the same laws being discussed, at least it would be appropriate for the public to enter such projects as public sector, TOKI and its participation, municipalities and its participation, the Bank of Provinces, and its participation in such projects as these, with exceptions and funds being collected in the bank, through monitors or monitoring companies, to enter such projects as we call them from the machine as sales. In addition, the Plan and Budget Commission had more reservations about the 17th article, which is that the board of directors is expected to take the decision when public partnerships are conducting procedures set up by related parties, while the board is seeking the approval of independent board members in the board's decision. If the independent board members do not have approval, it is approved by the general council, and they are asked not to vote. At the General Assembly meeting, there will be no call for a meeting, simply a decision for the majority. The proper opinion of the BDK will also be taken, as well as the procedure and fundamentally on the implementation of this clause on public banks. The current real estate purchases, and in companies, if there is a real estate purchase or sale from members of their board, the same issue is applied to the general board's decision, and only after the approval of the general council could be done is a similar arrangement. I wish the law to be good for our nation and our country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0167par0410	Thank you. Now, the question-answer process will take 15 minutes. Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0168par0413	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to rephrase the first question a little bit more. In particular, as it is known, many of our citizens who have been saving abroad have suffered serious losses by conglomerates known as Islamic conglomerates. Now, some of these holdings were registered to the SPK, some were indifferent. You're in charge of at least eight to ten years. What kind of procedure have you made so far as to prevent these victims? How many companies have you started to pursue and saved the lives of how many citizens? Do you, by any chance, intend to address the victims of our citizens with a new motion in this arrangement? Can I have your opinion on that?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0169par0416	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0170par0418	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, a friend of ours just asked, but he didn't get an answer, so I'd like to ask you again: is the appointment of the president and board members by the Council of Ministers really in line with independent board logic, or are you insisting on this as an element of advanced democracy? I'm curious about that, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0171par0421	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0172par0423	Mr. President, the honorable MPs, first of all, are appointed by the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, not just by the SEC. Currently, BDDK, TMSF are on many boards and many independent structures with similar regulations. So, in fact, this becomes a parallel form to other organizations, such as the BDDK, TMSF. What's important here is the selection of board members and their behavior after they've been appointed. In any case, independence is a matter of a great deal of people, a matter of their standing. If you choose the right people, that board works well, and sometimes we can see the problems when there are wrong people. As for the question about the holdings, with this new arrangement, I mean, with this bill, there are actually some new effective measures coming. Executive measures are being increased, and more effective measures can be taken from now on. They were forced to become stock market companies. At the same time, you know, in the new Turkish Trade Law, a serious ban on collecting money from the public without permission has been brought with it. Whatever you say about the issues before this happens, most of them are handled by the courts. I mean, our courts are making decisions the same way that they're going to decide how to deal with these victims. Of course, the heart would have liked to have taken precautions before it happened, before the test was broken. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, in particular, these holdings operate across the country in a very widespread way, with an unprecedented amount of promises of profit, commitments, which, you know, profit comes only after the job is done, while some of them have made a promise of profit in the first place -- the profits they're going to make, they're going to redistribute the check for the money they're going to distribute. There have been strange practices like this. These are things that need to be avoided in time, before the test is broken. Once his test is broken, it's not really easy to repair the victims after they're too late. Here, the courts are trying to resolve the injustice that our citizens suffered in some way, by deciding as much as they can access, access, and gather information.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0426	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. No more questions. Talks on chapter 1 have been completed. Now, after I've done the motion procedures on that clause, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes. There's a motion in Article 1 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the 1st Amendment of Capital Markets Bill, 337 rows, removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0174par0438	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0439	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0175par0440	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0441	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0176par0442	Motive...
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0443	I'm reading the reason: While some regulations have been brought in parallel with the developments described in detail in the capital market, in some cases the SEC has demanded excessive authority and the limits of the required powers have been large enough to lead to a systemic crisis in the event of abuse. In addition, the last-minute interim 9th article has been added to a very radical provision, but these substances have been rushed to the commission without formal opinion from other institutions and have controversial provisions that may cause harm in its content. It's temporary 9th, which is not included in the draft, and it's not on the agenda at the subcommittee meeting, but added to the text at the last minute by a motion given at the commission meeting. Despite the fact that the material has been brought to a very radical arrangement, these substances have been brought to the commission without formal opinion from other institutions and in a hurry. In fact, this material has a content that must be presented as a separate bill of law. However, "the habit of adding a bag of substances to the law at the last moment" -- which became an AKP classic -- has shown itself here, and has been added to the text without discussing such a broad article. This article is incorporated under the name "Bossa İstanbul Anonymous Company." So indirect privatisation is being done without being subject to privatisation procedures. The President of the Privatisation Administration on this issue and the Minister of Finance's view of the relevant Minister of Finance have not been received. It has been delivered to us as a healing for other interested institutions, but no written opinion has been received. In particular, the issues related to the capital and partnership structure and the treasury share are confusing. In the matter, it is also ruled that concessions be determined by the original contract. However, this company will be a participant in the treasury, since it is said to be registered "in the name of the treasure" of forty-nine percent of its shares. Here, instead of 51% of the treasury, 49% of the company is a private legal figure, and control is not in the treasury. In this case, there is no mechanism left to prevent the management of the Stock Exchange from being passed on to unwanted persons. This is a problem for the sound functioning of the financial system. Stock markets aren't just built for profit. The goal is that the Stock Exchange mediates the spread of capital and the investment of savings owners. Stock markets also play an important role in securing financial stability and boosting savings and investments. For these reasons, a review of the partnership structure must be added to the legal text of the privileged share, if not done. The bill is entitled to open "pronouncement in countries in which there is an intensive relationship with the capital markets." This request, which does not appear to be part of the original text of the bill, seems reasonable, but is a sign that domestic discussions in the economy can also be carried abroad through foreign diplomatic missions. In countries with the Turkish state's embassies, opening separate diplomatic missions in institutions will lead to a waste of resources and will further reduce the lack of co-ordination already in the economy and will lead to multi-headedness. Another interesting issue that was added to the bill at the last minute and undisputed is the real estate of the IMKB. IMKB-owned plots are being handed over to the Public Housing Authority for free. The issue is simplified by saying that education and teaching institutions will be funded. But it's not the goal, it's the application. There have been abuses in many businesses that have begun with ulterior motives. The area where these plots are located is a very high range. In a hurry, adding this material raises question marks. Certainly, the fact that not even the area of land is included in the additional table and that there is an area of about 159,000 m2 after our questions has increased our question marks and concerns. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. Yes, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. There's one motion on item 2 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Capital Markets Bill 337 be removed from the draft text. Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0177par0462	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0463	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0178par0464	We disagree.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0465	Anybody want a word on the motion?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0179par0466	Motive.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0467	I'm reading the reason: Some regulations have been introduced in line with the development described in detail in the capital market, but have been seen to be large enough to lead to a systemic crisis if the SEC demands excessive authority and the limits of the required powers are abused. In addition, the last-minute interim 9th article has been added to a very radical provision, but these substances have been rushed to the commission without formal opinion from other institutions and have controversial provisions that may cause harm in its content. Although the draft was not included in the draft, nor at the Subcommittee meeting, but was recently added to the text by a motion given at the commission meeting, the interim 9th article, which was brought to the commission without official opinions from other institutions, and was rushed to the commission. In fact, this material has a content that must be presented as a separate bill of law. However, "the habit of adding a bag of substances to the law at the last moment" -- which became an AKP classic -- has shown itself here, and has been added to the text without discussing such a broad article. This article is incorporated under the name "Bossa İstanbul Anonymous Company." So indirect privatisation is being done without being subject to privatisation procedures. The President of the Privatisation Administration on this issue and the Minister of Finance's view of the relevant Minister of Finance have not been received. It has been delivered to us as a healing for other interested institutions, but no written opinion has been received. In particular, the issues related to the capital and partnership structure and the treasury share are confusing. In the matter, it is also ruled that concessions be determined by the original contract. However, this company will be a participant of the Treasury, as it is said to be registered "in the name of the treasure" of forty-nine percent of its shares. Here, instead of 51% of the treasury, 49% of the company is a private legal figure, and control is not in the treasury. In this case, there is no mechanism left to prevent the management of the Stock Exchange from being passed on to unwanted persons. This is a problem for the sound functioning of the financial system. Stock markets aren't just built for profit. The goal is that the Stock Exchange mediates the spread of capital and the investment of savings owners. Stock markets also play an important role in securing financial stability and boosting savings and investments. For these reasons, a review of the partnership structure must be added to the legal text of the privileged share, if not done. The bill is entitled to open "pronouncement in countries in which there is an intensive relationship with the capital markets." This request, which does not appear to be part of the original text of the bill, seems reasonable, but is a sign that domestic discussions in the economy can also be carried abroad through foreign diplomatic missions. In countries with the Turkish state's embassies, opening separate diplomatic missions in institutions will lead to a waste of resources and will further reduce the lack of co-ordination already in the economy and will lead to multi-headedness. Another interesting issue that was added to the bill at the last minute and undisputed is the real estate of the IMKB. IMKB-owned plots are being handed over to the Public Housing Authority for free. The issue is simplified by saying that education and teaching institutions will be funded. But it's not the goal, it's the application. There have been abuses in many businesses that have begun with ulterior motives. The area where these plots are located is a very high range. In a hurry, adding this material raises question marks. Certainly, the fact that not even the area of land is included in the additional table and that there is an area of about 159,000 m2 after our questions has increased our question marks and concerns. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are three motions on Article 4 of the same nature, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 6 of Article 4 of Capital Market Law Bill 337 be removed from the draft text. Nurettin Canikli Ahmet Aydın Ayşe Nur Bahçapılı Osman love Look İdris Şahin Mehmet Doğan Kubat The signatures of other proposals are: Mehmet Günal Erkan Akçay Mustafa Kalaycı Emin Haluk Ayhan Sumer Oral Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu Bkent Kuşoğlu Alaattin Yüksel Kazim Kurt Kamer Young Gürkut Acar Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0180par0496	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0497	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0181par0498	We agree.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0173par0499	Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0182par0501	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, we've requested this motion over and over as we pass this clause in the Commission; don't, don't, don't... Do you know what the sixth joke of this article was? The real estate market in Turkey is a different market. You're building a flat or you're leaving, you're a contractor somewhere, building a building. Most people come and buy it while it's still under construction. You'll come and get permission from the SEC. I present to you the promise of this substance. If such a thing had happened, the real estate market would have died in Turkey. They sell apartments for every floor, or contractors, so they build buildings, they sell land, they sell them in cups, they sell them after they're done. No matter what happens, this provides financial resources, you'll get my permission. This was the clause, and with this clause, the SEC was given, plus, the authority of the Council of Ministers. My dear friends, the real estate market has its own values. He's a consumer who buys real estate here, he's a consumer somewhere. If he wants to contain it in some way -- not here -- he's going to do a long explanation, he's going to write an explanation, he's going to bring it to the SPK, months will pass. There is no such market in Turkey. There was a market truth. So that's the essence of this stuff. I don't think we were able to explain that at the Commission. Someone saw it later, I guess it's true. Its place is in the consumer law. If there are any facts to regulate the market in any way, its place is in the consumer law, where it must be prepared. But unfortunately, we're sad to say that we're offering, we're saying, we're telling the truth of the market, and then we're sad that he's accepting it somehow. If this motion had not been jointly proposed, if it had not somehow come from the ruling party, the truth would still not have been accepted, and we regret it. That's the market truth. It's all about taking over the real estate market by the SEC. Let everyone know that. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0183par0507	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya, has the other say-so on the motion.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0184par0510	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. As Mr. Aslanoglu pointed out, this was a warning clause. So it's an important step in allowing all three groups to accept the same motions. I, of course, have the same motive, but there was a sentence there, and I wanted to tell you that. Of course, in order to be determined by the Council of Ministers here, he was a little softened by our warning above, but it still needs to be handled with a different arrangement. We all agree with the need for editing, but here, we said it shouldn't be in the SEC arrangement. We expect this common sense approach in other controversial substances. In this framework, I wish you all the best of the law and the immediate dissension of all other noncompromising substances.
tbmm-2012-12-04sit05spe0185par0516	[[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Thank you. This joke aims to take into account the work done under the Law on the Protection of the Consumptionist and to organise matters under the Law on the Protection of the Consumptionist. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the motions accepted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
