tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 127th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Konya MP Mustafa Baloglu, who wanted to mention the 53rd International Akşehir Nasrettin Hoxha in honor of the Days of Memorial and Humor.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0002par0009	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on behalf of the memorial events of the great Turkish scholar Nasrettin Hoxha. I salute your committee. Nasrettin Hoxha was born in 1208 and passed away in 1284. He has been a pioneer of the genus of laughter, which includes sentiment and finesse in the language of the people. He is one of the architects of the formation of a new social and cultural change that emerges as the result of social development and change in his era. In fact, he's not alone in this mission. There are many names in the same era that have claimed similar functions. They are all the people of a similar mission, from Hazreti Mevlana to Yunus Emre, from Sheikh Edebali to Ahi Evran, from Shemsi Tebrizî to Haji Bektas Veli, from Yellow Saltuk, all the architects of a similar mission in that period. In their day, these great names, who had made my division of duties, had actually said the same thing as another language and style. He instilled faith and morality in the people with his poems of the Lord and Jonah Emre, and Nasrettin Hodja tried to ease the suffering of his wise and learned jokes, instilling hope and joy in people. Dear lawmakers, the foundation of the Ottoman State was built on the possibilities of such a spiritual and cultural environment. Nasrettin Hodja received his first information from his father, so his father was his first teacher. He studied Arabic and Persian languages, later studied madrasa and served in madrases, and served as the imam that was discharged from his father when his father died. Precious MPs are the chief city of the state of Anatolia, the capital of the state of Seljuk. In order to gain more knowledge and knowledge, Nasrettin Hoxha learned from important names such as the famous scholars of the era, Hodja Fakih, Seyiyet Mahmut Fani. Seyiyet Mahmoud Fani, one of his teachers, came to Anatolia during the Mongol invasion and settled in Akşehir, and played a major role in the Turkishisation and Islamisation of Anatolia. He is the man who raised Nasrettin Hoxha on the path of knowledge and knowledge. Nasrettin Hoxha has been on many different missions in his life, and according to his jokes, he has been an expert in imamism, missionary, cervical teaching, clerkship, clerkship, virtuoso, court. Apart from those duties related to his collection, he has served as a tradesman and apprentice. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Nasrettin Hoxha died in Akşehir when he was seventy-six years old in 1284, and the shrine of Nasrettin Hoxha was one of the key sites visited throughout history. Nasrettin Hoxha, who represents Anatolia's pure, intelligent and intelligent people, is what the Turkish people call a joke. He is the source of love and tolerance, and the important defender of the brotherhood. How did you find our city in a city where he went? He was the brother of our city, dark at night like our city, bright as our city by day, and bright as the stars are like our city. He answered, stressing that the people who share the earth are brothers, he has become a guide and a pioneer of emotional intelligence, trying to spread the faith of peace and brotherhood. As Nasrettin Hoxha talks about the situation in which people are struggling with the cruel and unjust conditions of life, he also mocks those who have caused it, giving conscious messages to some parts of society. When Nasrettin Hoxha, who had nothing to eat in his house, took the dry bread and ate it at Akşehir Lake, and dipped it in the water of the ducks that floated, and ate it, and weighed it with its seeds. He said, "Hahuntun, the date-palm man, when he asked for the sweets that his wife cooked on the night's meal, he ate half of it in the middle of the night, and knocked on the water in the middle of the night, that it would be in my stomach. Let the child's heart fall to sleep with its seeds. Nasrettin Hodja jokes have been spread from generation to generation, from language to language, and have remained up-to-date in every new century. The lessons learned from these jokes are the measurements that shed light on all times. Mr. President, I would like to say that we would be happy to welcome you to the 5th Akşehir Nasrettin Hodja's Memorial and Mizah Days, where the messages of our esteemed MP Nasrettin Hodja, full of love, peace and brotherhood from July 5th to 10th. On this occasion, by fermenting yoghurt into the lake, I salute your delegation with mercy and gratitude, the precious Nasrettin Hodja, who gave the message that hope would bring joy to life where it all ends.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0003par0022	Thank you. The second statement outside the agenda is owned by İzmir MP Musa Çama (Izmir) who wants to talk about the problems of Karaburun district of İzmir. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0004par0027	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Izmirin Karaburun district, when you consider the map of Izmir, is a beautiful town with a nose and a nose, with a sea and cove and agriculture. But in recent years, our county has been in serious trouble. In particular, the fact that this peninsula is in situ and can't be farmed, that perhaps Turkey's most beautiful goats are growing in this region, but we are experiencing serious problems here in Peninsula and Karaburun, because of the troubles of fish farms, wind energy and quarry. Especially with sage, burial, three types of thyme and tangerine, we face serious difficulties in this borough of ours, Karaburun. With the licenses provided by our Ministry of Environment, the quarry is being built here, and with the dust and nails from the quarry, agriculture in that area has become inoperable. This is a very serious problem in our district of Karaburun, which is famous for its jasmine with Nergi. During the past April, our President of the Environment Commission, Mr. Erol Kaya, visited and visited the region. We, in particular, have visited Mr. Erol Kaya and the Commission, the President of the Environment Commission, including Sarpıncık Mukhlı, Küçükbahçe Mukhtar Mehmet Kayalı, Mayor of Salman village, Mayor of the People's Party, Chairman of the Republican People's Party, Chairman of the AKP District and MHP District, including the President of the Environment Commission, Mr. Erol Kaya and the Commission, and the people who live in the area of Karaburun. We are at a point where the damage caused by the quarry and the fish farm in Almondbübüz would normally be 1,100 meters from the coast, but it was built just close to the shore, about 500 to 600 meters from the coast, and our citizens there became uninhabitable. So once again, I'd like to warn the people here who gave this license and the Ministry. Besides, there's an important status problem. Yeah, sit, we're supposed to protect the environment, we're supposed to protect nature, but there, in these villages, the average age of people living in 13 villages is over 60. Why? There's no chance of building a house for young people there, not even a room, all over the place. And because it's a site, people are in the middle of building houses for their boys and daughters, and so there's a huge migration. Now, where there are so many sites, the fact that the quarry has been allowed, the fact that wind energy has been allowed, the fact that fish farms have been allowed, and the fact that they've been allowed to take the gravel. Therefore, especially our peasant citizens are having a big problem and a big problem. After exiting 2/B, we have serious problems and problems, especially in Yaylaköy, Tepes and Sarpiny. They bring in wind-energy roses, they put them right in the village. But in Karaburun Peninsula, when wind energy is supposed to be placed in more suitable places, they immediately bring it to areas where the villagers use it as a meadow, where sheep and goats feed, where they put this wind energy, surrounded by fences, and our peasant citizen can't find a place to graze his livestock. We think these should be reviewed once again. Again, we have a retired captain in Sarpin, the children of Mustafa Gazi. In the past days, I visited the man, crying, saying: "I have a deed left by my ancestors, father, grandfather, olive groves, but the cadastro came here while we were measuring the cadastros, leaving our olive groves, leaving the remains of our ancestors, grandfathers, and fathers out of the camp, giving them to the treasure, and giving us an acre of where we were given. Now, we want these places that we have in our hands to be given back to us and to preserve our olive groves. Some time ago, big conglomerates, corporations, closed down big land on the Blackburen Peninsula, my friends. Now, there, the peasant can't breathe, he can't use the pastures, he can't use the meadows. In some places, in some villages, they even closed the cemetery of the village, where people can't visit their parents' graves and can't even go to their memorial days. Now, we have to say this one more time, especially the new road to Karaburun. Yes, we're not against building the road, but we're supposed to not allow this area to be plundered, especially after the Kazdağs, and to be given the wrong licenses, to be plundered, with quarry, fish farms and wind energy, because that area is an important region of ours. There's Gum Island and Pony Island right across the street, and our citizens there say, "If our country's Grand National Assembly of Turkey doesn't take care of us, let's go across the street right now and be citizens of the other side." Because why? Our ancestors, our grandfathers, our fathers, live in this land, and we want to live here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we can't even hammer a nail, but they're licensed to cook wells, fish farms and wind power, but we can't even make an eye room for our daughter and our son. I take it it upon myself to speak of these problems once again here on the leg of Parliament, and I salute them.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0005par0037	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kütahya MP Alim Izwar, who asked for a comment on recent issues in Kütahya. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0006par0042	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you and our beloved nation who are watching us. Since 2002, when a party was singled out, its name was known as the Aq, but its activities were more intelligent, the dark clouds that have been moving above the Kütahya (Kütahya) have been increasing day after day. In this process, many factories and facilities held by Kütahya have been sold and the allies have been enriched, nearly 100,000 young people from Kütahian have left the province because of unemployment; the province, which was ranked 29th in terms of public investments in 1999-2002, has been ranked 39th in the period of AKP governments. During this period, Turkey's population grew by more than 10 per cent, while the province population of Kütahya dropped by 15 per cent, and our parliamentary numbers dropped from 6 to 5 per cent. I'd like to share with you some of the new problems that have been added over the last year. Precious MPs have been promised to the Kütahians by many AKP executives before the June 12th 2011 elections, which have served in our province for years, but this battalion has been moved to the province of Kastamonu, and our fellow citizens have been deceived. So far, our province, located in the 3rd district of the 4 encouragement area, has been moved from 6 regions to 4th, to a worse position. For ten years, construction of a 500-bed state hospital, which has been said to be held at the outlet of Afyon, and the Health Ministry has been assigned to the 2010-2013 investment programme, has not yet been established, and now the relocation of the hospital is on the agenda, and Kütahya is about to miss that investment. The 520-bed Centre for Physics Treatment and Rehab, which was built a year and a half ago within the Central Campus of Dumlupınar, located on the road to Rabbitlı district of Kütahya, is currently under operation and suspended. The medical school hospital has been closed down and has been merged with a public hospital owned by the Ministry of Health, and there are no second-level hospitals left in the district of Kütahya. The injuries caused by the Simav earthquake occurred on May 19, 2011 were not sustained, many of our people were left homeless and unemployed, while 7,000 of our citizens from the district were forced to emigrate. It is as if our people have been deafened by the problems we have repeatedly expressed from this platform. There is still no suitable location for Simav State Hospital, which has been ruled to be destroyed by the earthquake. Seyitömer Linyit Enterprises, Garp Liniyets Management, Seyitömer and Tunçbilek thermal plants and our young people working as subcontractors at Etibor facilities, you have AKP and Government behind you. The open bond is being issued with their statements, a petition for an undated resignation, and those who do not give them are being fired. The reaction of the region's people against toxic waste facilities in the districts of Habbitlı, Gediz, Şaphane districts has been ignored and has been secretly filed with CED reports. The obstacle to privatisation of thermal power plants along with lignite deposits was lifted by a clause added to the Parliamentary agenda two days ago. A very dangerous bill to pave the way for privatisation in operations aimed at producing and enriching the Boron has been brought to Parliament's agenda. The AKP government, which brought a mobile court to the foot of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) terrorists on June 15, 2012, closed courts in the Ottoman districts of Domanic and Domanic, the centre of the establishment of Kütahya, and 44 districts that were returned a week later, were not included in the prison court. In addition to these courts soon, it will be inevitable to shut down executive directorates, notaries and finances in Domanic Prison and districts. On Sunday (July 1st 2012) the Greek church in Kütahya, which is located in Kütahya, where all of this is not enough. The allegations of preparations for the wake of the Kütahians by the bell sound are in the media, with a ritual led by the Istanbul Orthodox Patriarchy Bursa Metropolitan. I invite the government, AKP executives and valued bureaucrats, to give up attempts to provoke my Kütahian countrymen, to address the problems we are constantly trying to bring to the agenda, to listen to our warnings and suggestions, and to pay tribute to our good holidays.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has three papers, which I will have separately read and present to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was eligible to visit our country on June 20th 2012 and on June 27th. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information of the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Grand National Assembly of Turkey was eligible to visit our country on June 20, 2012, and the Committee for the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information of the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Committee for Foreign Relations of the Council of Representatives of Italy was eligible to visit our country on June 20, 2012 and on June 27 by the Supreme Court of the National Assembly of Turkey. The visit of the delegation to our country is the 7th Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It is subject to the information of the General Assembly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey In an effort to investigate and determine the issues of our chiefs, who operate under local administrations, our Constitution is 98 and 104 and 105. To establish a Parliamentary Research Commission according to the clauses; Supply and offer. 1) Mehmet Volcano Canalioğlu [[Tripoli]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 4) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] 5) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 10) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 14) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] [[Malatya]] [[Manisa]] [[Adana]] [[Let's go.]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 25) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] 26) Mehmet Ali Sesam [[İzmir]] Reason: As is known, Mukhtars suffer both institutional and economic distress. The Mukhtar institution has many tasks that will not end in counting between state institutions. Despite the fact that the population, municipalities, Courthouse, Military Branch, Security Directorate, Post, Information, Finance, Conspiracy, and Executive Offices have been exposing many of the institutions of the state, there are no powers and sanctions set by law. If the Mukhtars are not retired, he cannot receive health care, neither his wife nor children. Mukhtars provide for themselves, such as rent, electricity, water, telephone, stationery, cleaning and cleaning. The victims, including the mayor's rights, are on the line. Although 53 thousand of our chiefs serving in our country are people of public interest, they have no status in the public. Ankara, İstanbul, Izmir, and 53,000 village owners of the neighbourhood are in large part of the operation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At the beginning of our country's biggest problems are the weaknesses of the health system. Problems such as social security that does not cover all citizens, some of the physicians being kept out of the health system, infrastructure inadequacies, are also a sign of the sick nature of our country's health system. When it comes to human health, oral and dental health are of special importance. According to World Health Organization data, it is one of the biggest health problems facing humans due to the prevalence and repetitive rate of dental and dental disorders. For example, a 5-17-year-old group of children suffers from a tooth and gum infection, causing growth and development failure. In the 39-69-year-old group, also suffering from tooth and gum disease, it has been scientifically determined that the risk of coronary heart disease is seven times greater and that chronic digestive disease is four to five times greater in individuals with bad oral hygiene. For these reasons, dentists have a great role in maintaining public health. According to the social state principle, oral and dental care must be taken care of to protect public health, such as dentists. Unfortunately, in our country, this attention is not being taken. The absence of dental and dental disease as a health problem is disturbing to dentists and patients. While receiving services from private health services in general medicine has been opened, 80% of the dentists who work in clinics have been forgotten. The oral and dental problems of our society are far too large to be solved by public service. Moreover, the conditions of public dentists are becoming increasingly heavy. The number of dentists employed by the Ministry of Health is around 7,000. Dentists who work for our public enterprises are not able to meet the public's demand for dental and dental disease. A full automation of the state's best use of public resources corresponds with the demands of public and dentists to buy services from free-working dentists, particularly the practice. The Union of Turkish Dentists has done a lot of work to draw attention to the issue. Also, on October 11, 2008, the Union of Turkish Dentists held a meeting with Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The prime minister asked the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Security to work on it, and then two ministry representatives and Turkish Dentist officials met on October 15th. More than three years have passed since this meeting and no results have been made. The problems of dentists must be avoided before they reach the extent that will affect public health. Therefore, the Constitution is 98 to investigate the problems of dentists and their proposals for solutions. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[İstanbul]] [[Ankara]] 3) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Gaziantep]] 6) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 7) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Scholarship]] [[Malatya]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 13) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Let's go.]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Niğde]] 20) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly For centuries, the press has been an important part of our lives, emerging from our needs, such as curiosity, awareness, knowledge. Today, the media, which maintains the most effective communication tool feature among the intellectuals in the world, dates back to 1831 "Tavim-i" cases in our country, but should be considered and discussed in terms of its importance on society. It's called the local and national press, but our local press is perceived as the side arm of our National Press. Given the possibilities of our National Press, while the speed and power of the world to deliver information, news, developments, masses is undisputed, unfortunately our local media, including the issues of the region and its people, has provided solutions, development of relations and a positive public development. Our local media has also taken public office in a way in the local area, with a degree of supervision, criticism, and criticism of local governments. As we all know very well, because of the impossibilities of your local edition, the publications of your local edition continue to promote local development, including daily, weekly, or longer times in our districts. We can't end up counting the problems of our local newspapers, whose numbers are around 1,000 across the country. In fact, although we do not think independently of the problems of our national press, our local newspapers in our various cities and towns have many unique problems. Because of their close ties to political, judicial, property or other public institutions in the region where they are published, they face challenges primarily in access to the news source and public presentation. Local Journalists who try to do their job properly can face many obstacles when they sign publications that can disturb the administrative and property managers of the region they are in charge of. Even this is a major obstacle to the development of our local journalism, to its problems that we can't end by counting. It's not easy for our local press to collect, print, spread the news to large populations and survive. First of all, there's a need for material power. The newspaper, which suffers financially, has not been able to benefit from technology enough, and our local press, which is tight enough to deliver to its readers, is unable to get enough of the official ad cake. They have many problems with commercial advertising and a lack of advertising, newspaper supply challenges, and the state's lack of adequate contributions and support for local newspapers. Our province, our county, our province, our country, and our region, the eyes and the windows to the world, the eyes and the interests of its people, our local newspapers, who oversee, judge, criticize, and take part in a kind of voluntary public service in order to ensure that our Constitution, 98, 104 and 105, will be brought into existence in order to determine the measures that must be taken in order to ensure that the community's awareness, illustration. By establishing a Commission according to its Articles, we respectfully submit the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. [[Çanakkale]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 4) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Scholarship]] [[Ankara]] 12) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 16) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Adana]] [[Let's go.]] [[Antalya]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 23) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Niğde]] 25) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At Friday's meeting of the advisory council 29/06/2012, the following proposals were approved by the General Assembly. In the absence of 48 hours of the 311 and 311 rows distributed, the agenda's "Objects From Laws and Proposals and Other Jobs From Commissions" will be ranked in the ranks of 54, 89, 90, 3 and 4 of the laws laid down in this section, and the order of other tasks will be ranked in the rankings of 50, 51, 52, 53 and 54, respectively; Turkey's Grand National Assembly does not take a vacation on July 1, 2012, according to Article 5 of the Council of Turkey, and the General Assembly continues its work. Until Friday (June 29th), 2012, Friday (today) the meeting of the talks on the 31st-tier bill was completed; It's 12 o'clock on Saturday, June 30, 2012. Until the completion of the talks of bill number 278, the meeting of the 00,,,,,, and the meeting of the bill. Until Sunday, July 1, 2012, at 2:00 p.m., the meeting of the 302-line law proposal in this merger completes its talks; Until Monday (July 2nd 2012), at 2:00 p.m. on Monday (July 2nd), the completion of talks on the 301th amendment; Until the completion of the daily schedules in the following combinations, in the event that the daily programs are incomplete at 2400 p.m.; Keep up the good work, Number 311 and 312. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. According to Article 92 of the Constitution, the Prime Minister has a thesis: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the UN Security Council's 1701/8/2006 resolution (2006) and Turkish Parliament's 5/9/2006 resolution for 880, Turkey has contributed to the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) with the elements of the Armed Forces. The length of the permit is finally extended by a year from 5/9/2011, dated 5/7/2011 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With its contributions to the UNIFIL ground operation and the naval task force, Turkey has actively carried out an important function in the implementation of the peacekeeping operation, so that its appearance within the United Nations system, both on a regional and global scale, and has improved its status. Turkey's participation in UNIFIL has contributed substantially to the continuation of its policy on maintaining peace and stability in the region. UNIFIL's mandate will expire on 31/8/2012 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after 31/8/2012. The political climate and security environment in Lebanon are thought to be appropriate for our military elements in the country to continue their duties. Given our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL's mandate, I will allow the Turkish Armed Forces elements, which will be determined by the government, under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, and under the principles determined by TBMM Resolution 880, to participate in the UNIFIL operation for another year from 5/9/2012, and to make the necessary arrangements to be carried out by the Government. I will open a meeting on the Prime Ministerial Charter under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the government and the individual, I promise two members. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for groups and the government, ten minutes for individuals. I read the names of the members of the MPs who took over Tezkere: Yıldırım Tuğul Türkesh, Ankara MP on behalf of the People's Party Group; Osman Kuruturk, İstanbul MP; Nazmi Gür, Van MP on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group; Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu, Hatay MP; Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP. Now, Yıldırım Tuğrul Türkesh, Ankara MP who wants to speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Turkesh.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0008par0286	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the soldier we lost since last week when we hailed the High Assembly, the police beg Allah's mercy on our 13 martyrs, and I strongly curse the terror that took our lives from this stand. And on this occasion, I hope, the opening mistake will be noticed by all the political parties involved in it, and soon it will be returned from the historical error. In order to maintain peace in Lebanon, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to ensure that UNIFIL (United Nations) will be able to contribute to Turkey's armed forces for another year. Dear lawmakers, the martyrs we give each day and the fact that Syria hit an unarmed, unprotected Turkish jet on June 22nd is once more clearly confirmed that the world and the region are not as safe for Turkey as they think it is. No one has any doubt that the goal of these attacks is the Turkish miracle, which has been embroidered every hour and second every day since centuries of Turkish sovereignty and independence. What is this miracle? To sum it up very clearly, the virtue of the republic, the virtue of democracy, and the superiority of the national identity, and the logic of the values that everyone in our daily lives has made into meat without exception. Turkey is the only democracy in the region. Turkey has established its democracy according to its character and its characteristics, and has been successfully functioning with that spirit for years. I consider Turkey a goal, an idea. Turkey is not a constant pattern, it's not a dogma, it can't be. In this sense, Turkey has migrated from various geographys to this land and has established the will to live together on the basis of volunteering. Turkey is the common dream of Turkey, of Turkey, of Turkey, of Avşar, of Kırgyz, of Tatar, of Türkmen, of Azerbaijan, of Azerbaijan, of Uygur, of Bosniak, of Laz, of Çerkek, of Albanian, of Georgian, of Kurdish, of Arab. It is peace, of peace, of unity, of strengthening and strengthening on a common ground. That's why it's important to understand a university state. The order of the Republic is important for the equality of opportunity for everyone, without looking at differences, without looking at certain features. Democracy is vital because of its rights, its freedoms, but also because of its responsibilities. The national identity, which is Turkic, is to make the thousands of large small communities that have gathered for a great nation whole inside and out, and they are indispensable. Dear MPs, these are the main pillars of the Turkish miracle I'm talking about. In light of these data, Turkey is not only a national entity, but it is made up of the idea of universality. Turkey is the home of common mind, conscience, and human sensibility. In this sense, Turkey is the common wealth of everyone who lives on this land, the most beautiful ore ever created. We all have to come to the realization that Turkey has begun long before us, and that it will continue forever after us. We're just little rings of this huge chain. And for that reason, the responsibility belongs to all of us, to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's a reason why I'm telling you this. It's not easy to preserve such an enthusiastic structure, it takes skill and skill. There are two basic tasks to preserve the miracle in question. One is to establish a strong and strong order inside, and the second is to be vigilant against outside threats and attacks, but there is one point that these two tasks intersect, peace and politics. Here is the wisdom of the ancient Ataturk, peace in the land, peace in the world. On this occasion, I'd like to address the government's follow-up to Middle Eastern policy. I'm afraid this new political effort, which I have no doubt began with good intentions, has not yielded the desired results. The fragmented Iraqi government, which was raised by the withdrawal of the United States, Syria, who dared to defy Turkey on the basis of the world's balance of power, and Israel, which we've been trying to preserve our friendship for so many years, which we've been trying to strengthen, even with expensive tenders, all of it, but all of it points to that error. I also have a word with those who are involved in every formation against Turkey at every turn, citing their Kurdish origin in Turkey. The terrorist organization's arm in Syria is united by Syrian administration in the conflict between Turkey and Syria and you need to see and be ashamed of its current policy. Here you are, according to a report published in a national newspaper the other day, the terrorist organization in Ayn-el Arab, Syria, drew what he called a rag. Now, I want to ask these people: how will you tell the people of this land what you're defending if you can't side with Turkey, even in the attacks on our country in international waters? In the Middle East geography, the recent phenomenon, which is called the Arab Spring, is a lesson to all. We have always stressed that it is better for countries in the region to reach democracy with their own channels and dynamics, and that Turkey should not have too much engagement in the process. We are aware and we see that there are many dictatorial regimes in the region, and there is a certain desire for democratisation at the public level, but that desire is often suppressed and ignored. Dictatorship, Fascism is bad; it is contrary to human rights and human dignity. They should be opposed to the end, but as we can see in Iraq, export politics often fails and often backfires; it causes division, disintegration. Dear lawmakers, we favor the territorial integrity of our neighbors because we live in a turbulent and sensitive geography. Our neighbors' territorial integrity is ours, too. We've always said, once again, in all modern democracies, foreign policy and national defence politics are state issues. As a party, we've always acted with this consciousness and we keep on going. It's because we defend this vision that when it comes to the security and national interests of the country, we don't use issues like the rest of them to use domestic politics. In this sense, we have said that we do not approve of the government's policy in particular over the last few years. At the coming stage, we can't take back time and change the past. The opposition is obliged to look at what's happening today and try to influence it tomorrow. The government's Syrian policy of the National Movement Party is one thing, and our military plane being shot down by Syria is another thing. Its explanations should be evaluated from this window. We make it very clear from here: Syria's landing of an unarmed aircraft on a reconnaissance flight concerns all its institutions and the state of the Republic of Turkey. Again, terrorist attacks that have passed through Kandil must be addressed in this framework. Such attacks were carried out against Turkey's political and diplomatic independence, as an article published yesterday in a British newspaper suggests, and no one can expect the National Movement Party to be silent; it is very clear. Dear lawmakers, we just talked about peace policy. A state tradition is rooted in republican foreign policy, which is the search for peace, the pursuit of staying away from war. We know the destructiveness of war, the material, the spiritual, the physical damage. No one must forget that war has cost in every sense. That's why we're always calling for caution in the first place, bringing out the coolness and the common sense. However, no state should take the opportunity to exploit and exploit Turkey's peaceful stance. Even so, there are many alternatives in front of Turkey, except for the choice of war, and Turkey will not hesitate to consider them for a second. Dear lawmakers, in order to conduct a national and comprehensive peace policy, there must be multiple options at the state's table. It seems that in the coming months, Turkey is expecting a very hot agenda on the international platform. We're entering a period of opportunity for various provocations. Through various groups, you must be vigilant against cells that will attempt to confuse Turkey. At this point, the government must prepare and examine events with all its dimensions and especially with national interests. The National Movement Party represents the national reflex of our society. Our party, above all, thinks and defends our country, its children, its most vulnerable, ordinary people. As the late Ataturk said, the Republic is an orphan. The National Movement Party has dedicated its existence to living and perpetuating the Turkish miracle, which I described in the first place; in this respect, it is the opposite of the wrong, and it is behind the right, and it is behind the right. Therefore, I would like to address the government from here: inside and outside, without exception, without exception, in all attempts to protect and protect the interests of our government and our people in every way. In this sense, the current political power must immediately establish a new and regional foreign policy in accordance with Turkey's structure. I would like to repeat to them that we can help them if they wish. We have no complexes, no selfishness, no account, like some parties and formations. We only have one problem, which is the peace of Turkey and the Turkish nation. In that sense, we hope the message we want to deliver has arrived. Dear lawmakers, as I have just highlighted, in the future, in the name of collective security, Turkey must specify the minimum asset in accordance with international law across the border. In this sense, I believe the elements of the Armed Forces must exist under the umbrella of the United Nations Peace Corps in Lebanon, where there are political and/or cultural savings over various states, and I say the National Party of Action is looking positively at the current arrangement. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0009par0304	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Osman Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0010par0307	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in the United Nations Peace Corps UNIFIL, Lebanon, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter of the declaration submitted to the Grand National Assembly by the Supreme Assembly under Article 92 of the Constitution, in accordance with Article 92 of the Turkish Armed Forces, which expires in 31/08/2012. I salute you all. In the Middle East, this is probably the last time I've spoken on behalf of our party since the beginning of the Arab wake-up in Turkey. On this occasion, I'd like to make a brief summary of our view of priority issues regarding our Middle Eastern policy. As the Republican People's Party, we believe that the participation of the Turkish Armed Forces in the United Nations peacekeeping operations will contribute both to world peace and our country's position within the United Nations. Therefore, as in previous years, we will vote positively for the thesis, but at no rate does this mean that we approve of the government's general foreign policy and especially Middle Eastern politics; on the contrary, our concerns about Turkey's being dragged into an international and regional vortex because of adventurous foreign policies over the past three years. Precious MPs, Lebanon, as part of its ethnic, religious and religious structure, are one of the most complex and turbulent communities in the Middle East. Since its establishment, the country has been involved in interethnic, religious and religious conflicts, especially during its bloody civil war in the 1970s, with its own internal actors, as well as the heavy influence of neighbouring countries, especially Syria and Israel. In this respect, Lebanese, in the words of Ataturk today, is a picture of the general view of the Middle East that can best describe the general political landscape that has been in the Middle East since 1948. If it were possible to establish a permanent order of stability in Lebanon, and it could be maintained on the democratic ground that was originally intended, it would also have meant a real model for a modern, prosperous and democratic Middle East, where different religions and sects could live together in peace and hope for the future of the region. Sadly, though, time and circumstances have shown that it is not easy to maintain permanent stability in this country, and even beyond that, it is almost a utopian goal. Turkey has not had major problems in its relations with Lebanon from the past to the present, but it has not been able to establish close relations with this country as long as necessary until the 2000s. In 2004, a period of progress began in our relations with Lebanon after the visit of then Prime Minister Refik Hariri. In the following years, the two countries continued to develop their relationship, with mutual visa exemptions from January 2010, and some improvements have been made in economic relations. Here, economic relations should be drawn under the underlying importance that at times the benefits of our country's interests are highly controversial. In the area of telecommunications in many Western countries, such as France, for example, which is subject to special regulations, the sale of key shares of Turkish Telecom company to the Hariri family's Oger Telecom. On the other hand, in the context of Turkey-Lubnan relations, a crucial development for us was that on 17 February 2007, the government of Lebanon signed an exclusive economic zone bordering agreement with the Greek Cypriot government in the Eastern Mediterranean, shortly after the UNIFIL took office in Lebanon under the decision dated 5/9/2006 of the Turkish-military Grand National Assembly. By the government, Turkey's activity in the Middle East has increased, we've been a sovereign country in the region for many years, and we've been sitting in the stands, as Mr. Prime Minister put it, and it has not been prevented by the government in the form that we are now quarterbacks and land in the field, in the form of facts and in a non-serious way, while Lebanon's declaration of a deal that will affect our national interests with the GKRY in the first degree. At that time, however, the government claimed to have had great relations with Lebanon as well as with the Hariri family. So much so, Mr. Prime Minister, at one time during his efforts to establish a government in Lebanon, Mr. Davutoglu himself tried to find between Hariri and Nasrallah, the son, by sending Mr. Davutoglu himself to Hezbollah's bunkers. Precious lawmakers have encouraged the Greek Cypriots to continue to own rich oil and gas deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean, as the AKP government failed to prevent Lebanon from making this deal with the GKRY. In fact, the Greek government, which first signed an economic regional agreement with our friend Egypt in 2003 and did not respond to it, saw neither himself nor Lebanon face a serious reaction to Turkey four years later, signed an economic regional limitation agreement with Israel on 17 December 2010. Following this recent agreement, the rich natural gas reserves, discovered in the region as a result of drilling, speeded up efforts to form regional power union and axis between Greece, the GKRY and Israel. Israel, perhaps due to its priority and importance for strategic security relations with Turkey and the prospect that relations with Turkey could improve, has temporarily declined to actually enter the natural gas and oil fields in the Eastern Mediterranean region, but has then started sharing the wealth of the region with the GKRY. Beyond that, Israel has turned to other more comprehensive alliances with the GKRY. It was in the press that Israel would transfer 20,000 personnel to Cyprus to protect oil and gas storage and transport facilities produced in the eastern Mediterranean, which would reach 50,000 people along with their families and relatives. In Davos, which began with the "one minute" and continued with the unfortunate Blue Marmara incident at Davos, thereby reset relations with Israel, thus bringing Turkey out of the position of having power over the Middle East peace process; then, by building all its neighbours' internal disputes, not only by taking sides, but by taking sides, its own strategic isolation across the Syrian policy, which led to an alliance between Turkey and Turkey, which was seen by this country, which dropped an international law and military avionic theory of peace, which led to the construction of the United States by Russia, not only by Russia, but by its own entity. To sum up, the government has taken Turkey's energy policies to a serious deadlock in the fields of oil and natural gas in the eastern Mediterranean region. As measures have not been taken in the foreign policy that should lead energy politics, almost all of our energy and interests in the Eastern Mediterranean are out of our control today. Currently, Turkey is 72% dependent on external energy. In oil and natural gas, two main sources that cover two-thirds of our energy consumption, our country is almost entirely dependent on the outside. About a quarter of the current deficit, which captured the Turkish economy and became chronically ill, stems from the import of energy products. If we have local and renewable resources, such as hydroelectric, lignite, wind, sun, and biofuels, a significant part of our country's energy dependence on energy, another important part are potential oil and gas reserves in the Black Sea, Aegean and Eastern Mediterranean. However, AKP's wrong and lonely policies in the eastern Mediterranean have severely limited our assessment of this important potential and put it at serious risk -- as I explained above. One last thing to be known about this is that the areas where Turkey's Petroleum Association declares that it will conduct oil and gas exploration in the Eastern Mediterranean are also intersecting with Parts 1, 4, 5, 6 and 7 in the so-called economic region of the Greek administration. Right now, at least in the context of disagreements on these parcels, any possibility, including a hot battle, is on the table. Dear MPs, I've just told you about our RF-4E reconnaissance plane that was shot down by Syria in international airspace, which still holds the hope of our plane's young and precious pilots still unaccounted for, and I sincerely wish it all to be safe. However, this point, which we've been taking for more than a year as a result of the irrecognisable Syrian policy, has, unfortunately, meaning that our determination and deterrentism by Syria is being tested. The government must not give up on this work within international law, not be satisfied with the dry support expressed in NATO and other international forums that we are part of, and with false condemnation against Syria. The international community must be allowed to hold Syria accountable in a manner that involves sanctions for its action. A similar incident in the opposite direction took place in Cyprus's skies last May 14th. On that day, an Israeli plane breached the airspace of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus for eight minutes, and was suspended from the Turkish Cypriots by the intervention of our F-16 (F-16) who left İncirlik. Is this remarkable violation of the GKRY-Israel convergence to test our true domination of the Eastern Mediterranean, or is the intimidation intentional? Has the foreign policy, which the government has implemented and has defended at the expense of making everyone laugh, now taken the size of a dogfight over the Aegean Sea with Greek planes to be done in international airspaces with Syria and Israel over Cyprus? I'd like to talk to you about our relationship with Iraq in a couple of sentences while we're discussing the issues of the region. After the U.S. occupation, Iraq was unable to achieve the desired stable democratic structure, its economic problems became heavy, its ethnic and religious disputes escalated, leading to a significant resolution of the country's social structure. All of these developments have taken place that could affect the balances in the region and the security and stability of Turkey. Since the beginning, Turkey has supported the protection of Iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity and has developed mechanisms to enable this support. These mechanisms have been achieved by Turkey's equal approach to all ethnic and religious, religious layers of Iraq. The main importance of Iraq's territorial integrity and sovereignty for us is that a stable and united Iraq (Irak) can balance Iran in both our part of the region and in terms of the Gulf countries, especially Saudi Arabia. This balanced environment will make a serious contribution to maintaining stability that can best meet Turkey's national interests. The situation of Iraq today does not allow this country to have a balance element in the region. This means pushing Turkey to a place we should never want to be, to be a balance factor against Iran. Saudi Arabia and the Gulf countries and Jordan have long long desired that Turkey set a balance against Iran, a source of serious concern for them. Turkey's national interests, on the other hand, do not require a balance against this country or this country in its region, but require a softness of power as a stabilisation island in its region and implementing that power. Members of parliament, given all these elements, it is imperative that Turkey monitors the developments in Iraq very closely, strengthens the efforts this country has made during the period following the Iraq war to preserve its territorial integrity and sovereignty, in close relations with both central and regional government, without interference in the country's domestic politics and in equal distance from all groups, and contributes to social peace in Iraq. Meanwhile, the threat of serious terrorism from Iraq to Turkey continues. In its own words, the Prime Minister's prayers for "the safe return of American soldiers" were accepted, when the Americans had done a great deal of destruction in Iraq, where they said they would bring democracy and freedom, thousands of children without fathers, hundreds of thousands of women without husbands, hundreds of thousands without homes, without jobs, without food, and returned to their homes. The U.S. trilateral talks, which we continued to end the PKK's existence and activities in Kandil while the country's security was in the hands of Americans, left us with Iraq. The equation is between the two countries, but it's actually a threesome, including Turkey-Iraq Central Management-Kurdistan Regional Management. However, the issue of Kandil is mentioned only on an abstract level when regional executives from northern Iraq come to Turkey, and it is never heard of as being discussed with the Iraqi Central Administration. When it's called Iraq, if not, the leader of the Iraqi Islamist Party linked to the Muslim Brotherhood is occupying our Tarik Hashimi agenda in Iraq, Iraq's territorial integrity, sovereignty, terrorist activities from the land of Kandil, Iraq to Turkey, what do government officials have in mind? Friends, does the Iraqi Central Administration have no connection, concern, responsibility, and a vital priority for Turkey? The government has brought up abstract, romantic concepts like "not selling friends" in Iraq, "not being indifferent to the pain in Syria," pushing our true national interests back into the background, and terrorism continues to take lives in our country every day. Recently, we see Iraq and its interest in this country have been pushed back a lot on our government's political agenda, and we are amazed that Iraq does not have the place it once had in Turkish foreign policy. So much so that in October 2003, the mission of the Iraqi Special Representative at the embassy level, which was committed to managing and co-ordinating all relations between Turkey and Iraq, was abolished today. On the other hand, a perception of the recent AKP government's structure of foreign policy based on sectarian origins and clearly placing Sunni-Sii separation is also widespread in the region. In fact, he claims that he is not a sectarian on every occasion, but points out that the AKP government has always established its alliances by staying close to the Sunni leaders and political communities, as well as the opposition's criticisms of him, particularly regarding Syrian policy, are seeking to welcome an unethical and absurd cultal gain. Dear MPs, Turkey is a secular country. Its power in the region and the world stems from its democracy and secular structure. This religion, this religion, or this sect, or its closeness should have no effect on Turkey's approach to them. The Middle East does not have a homogeneous religious structure or religious integrity. For 1,500 years, each religion, every sect, various sects of different religions, and other beliefs such as Zarathism and Yazidilism, have been a multicolored, multi-digit geography. If you turn to one religion in this geography, you'll be limiting your own field of influence. Turkey was able to contribute to the preservation of Iraq's territorial integrity after the 2003 Iraq War, with its secular understanding, and with its neutral and constructive politics, which stood equally close to all groups in Iraq. It should not be forgotten that a sectarian foreign policy stance has the potential to cause dissolution between northern Iraq and Syrian Turks, which is the nearest and most reliable element in the region. Among the Syrian and Iraqi Turkmen are the Shiites as well as the Sunni. One of the most painful consequences of Turkey's biased and exclusive stance will be that Shii Türkmen will move away from Turkey and enter the direction of Iran. A country that wants to play regional leadership cannot succeed by flagging a sect, even in the majority of the population. Mr. President, I'd like to point out once again that the point that we've come to in foreign policy as we end my words is the result of failures and insistence, which we will suffer in the short future, with updates that we fear will be renovated as Turkish people. There's something important I'd like to share with you on this occasion. Yesterday, a draft agreement was presented to the Foreign Commission by the government. This draft agreement envisioned military co-operation between the Republic of Turkey and Sudan. We all know that Sudan is a country in Darfur region that has been in serious turmoil since 2003, and this mess and confusion has been suppressed by the government by using force, being heavily massacred. The International Criminal Court has a warrant against Sudanese President Omar El Bashir, and a warrant is issued. However, one third of the population in the Darfur region, hundreds of thousands of people have been displaced, hundreds of thousands have died, and many of them have been injured, and we did not understand what it means to have a military agreement with Sudan, and I leave it to your discretion. We, the Republican People's Party, have brought an opposition to this. We'll share this opposition with the press tomorrow. On the one hand, however, we can't stand the massacres in Syria, the suffering in Syria, the human rights violations in Syria. As I put an end to my words here, I'd like to commend the government for rethinking this issue and for the decision that the bill passed by the Foreign Affairs Commission yesterday should not be taken down to the General Assembly. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0011par0355	Thank you. Nazmi Gür, Van MP who has asked for the Peace and Democracy Group.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0012par0357	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have pledged on behalf of my group that the United Nations Security Council passed Decision 1701, adopted by the United Nations Security Council in 2006, and that decision 880, which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey had previously adopted, and that the government offered Turkey's contribution to the United Nations Peace Corps in Lebanon for a year. I salute you all with love and respect. Dear friends, for ten years a AKP government has been in power, increasing its power in a large majority and in each three elections. Its arrival in power followed a style that showed itself in both domestic and foreign policy practices or foreign politics, showed a bit of self-reliant, a little aggressive. In foreign politics, this aggressiveness, of course, can add to popularism in the short term. For example, in Libya, the Prime Minister can afford thousands in Egypt, or Egypt, but in the long term, in the Middle East or in Turkey's region, it is far from being a strong, modern, democratic, and truly role model country. While this thesis is being discussed, our country, in a country such as Lebanon, which, no doubt, is small but occupied by the Middle East, gives us a certain number of military powers to ensure internal peace and stability in a country like Lebanon. As you will read in the thesis, we give the framework of this, the framework of that task force, and the authority of the government. So far, everything's normal, but we need to take some time to evaluate it, we need to have a little talk, which is the government's own Middle Eastern policy. The Middle East, about a hundred and fifty years ago, has a status quo shaped by the British, the dominant forces of that day, and this status quo has lasted until today, but this status quo is no longer in a position to protect the policies of the dominant forces, and since it is not in a position to protect their interests, the stones are now moving in the Middle East, which is the world's most problematic area in both subterranean wealth and oil and water, especially in the Middle East. With the United States' intervention in Iraq, after the two Gulf wars, the strongest, most concrete example of this status quo change has happened, and now the founders of that status quo, the founders of it a hundred years ago, have made it very clear that in their behavior, there's not a lot of good that these sovereign states here and their authoritarian regimes are going to do to us, so we're changing this process for him, we're changing the status quo, and in this status quo, I'm declaring a new status quo. You know, Mr. Prime Minister is also the co-chair of this Great Middle Eastern Project. Here is the change of status, whether it is in the interests of the rulers in the Middle East, or in the interests of the oppressed people in the Middle East; the whole issue is tied here. We want Turkey in the Middle East to have a leading country in the Middle East that continues its foreign policy, free of its former Ottoman dreams, truly strong with its economy, with military power, perhaps deterrent, with its democracy, but there's a precondition for that, in its own home, to provide what we say first. He needs to improve democratic standards, he needs to end a 30-year internal conflict, he needs to end it peacefully, through negotiation methods, he needs to solve the Kurdish problem. He needs to figure out that if Turkey really wants to be a big force in its territory when the status quos are changing in the Middle East and really wants to be a leading country in its territory, there's only one prerequisite: to solve the Kurdish issue. Second, there is no other way to establish, establish, establish, and establish universal democratic rules in the Middle East -- however it should be formed after that. The international forces, of course, will shape their interests in the Middle East as the stones move and the status quo changes in the Middle East, ignoring the interests of our oppressed peoples. I'll close something here in Turkey. With an approach like this, I'll close a Role. By taking an approach like that, he'll show the Middle East people the greatest insult, the greatest disloyalty, to all the peoples he's ever lived with. Because it is known that for a thousand years in this Middle East geography, Turks, Arabs, Kurds, Fars and other peoples have been living together, forming a common culture. It is known that the Middle East is a great center of civilization where three heavenly religions emerge. It is known that the Middle East is one of the world's most important centers of civilization, where different beliefs, different cultures, different languages, different ethnic groups. In a place like this, it is only possible to be effective in such a place, and only by respecting the language, culture, and presence of those people. And that's how it works in practice? No, that's not how it works. Why? Because in the Middle East, while the stones are moving, Turkey wants to make a move in the interest of different forces by pushing all these values, all these good relationships, past history aside. The Prime Minister may want to be the leader of all Arabs, but the Prime Minister may want to be the sultan of all Muslims. It can be met naturally, but in foreign policy, in real politics, in the Middle Eastern policy of today's world, such a desire is surely not welcome, nor is it good, nor does it serve the interests of the people. The war in Iraq opened up a different situation in Iraq. In Iraq, there was a serious international effort for the creation of the new Iraq, along with the liquidation of Saddam's regime. While these efforts continue, Turkey is having a serious conflict with the government of Baghdad in Iraq -- the Central Government -- by developing sectarian relations on the one hand. With his relationship with the Sunnis in Baghdad, with the Kurds in a different way, I'm afraid the government has failed in its policy in Iraq, where AKP's most important change in the Middle East, the fallout, the destruction, and the reunion of its people in an equal, free, democratic way. Here is the tension between the Shiite Prime Minister in Baghdad and our Prime Minister, like the tension between Assad (M. Prime Minister) and Mr. Prime Minister, one step at a time, one step at a time. When it becomes a conflict potential, it becomes a crisis, everyone's heart is in your mouth. On the other hand, Syria... no one of us, no one in this Parliament, will surely approve of the Assad regime's attacks against its people; it does not justify, it cannot, it cannot, it does not see, the human conscience will not allow it, but let everyone put their hands on their consciences, is the Syrian policy of the AKP really true? Is Syria's policy in the interest of Turkey really a policy in the interest of Turkey? Put your hand on your conscience and think about it for a moment. Dear friends, this policy, this policy of tension, it was until a plane was shot down. I mean, if the international forces had said, "Come on, shoot." Maybe we'd have had a serious break in Syria. Is it really that easy to take a country to the brink of war? Is it really necessary to insist on bringing a country to the brink of war when it is so connected with a false foreign policy, with a false foreign policy? Here are the rocks in the Middle East as well as in Syria, while the countries ruled by the dictators fall one by one, and change one by one. Of course, Turkey will have its share of the change. In neighbouring countries around us, you will ignore the people's will and demand to evolve towards democratic regimes, you will ignore them, but in the future, with the internal dynamics of that country, one way or another, I can get something. To do the math, such a pragmatic approach is not an approach that we would tolerate in foreign policy. Dear friends, in Egypt, you know, there was an election. When the election was being held, the public vote, the people's will, the military regime, which is now in power there, began to change the rules when they were playing, so to speak, and while those rules were changing, I didn't see a reaction, or an approach from our Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Foreign Ministry. I mean, with the change in Egypt, there's an Arab Spring in Egypt, which has finally reached its peak, there's no way of understanding that the government is partially silent about what's going on in Egypt. Dear friends, there is no doubt that peace and stability can be achieved in the Middle East, but only in the way that Middle Eastern peoples demand peace, brotherhood, equality, democracy and freedom, and these demands are met by democratic regimes. All other games, all other approaches, other than that, the foreign policy approaches of the government or this state, will force the tension in the Middle East to increase the tension in the Middle East, to break the tension in the Middle East against the people. So once again, we call on the AK PARTY and its foreign policy makers, the State Department. We, in the Middle East, have historical ties with the Middle Eastern peoples, yes, we have strong historical ties. We, in the Middle East, have very strong ties in the context of religious faith, yes, very strong bonds. We, the people of the Middle East, have culture together, we have culture in common, we have values in common, we have cultures in common. Respectfully, we invite the AKP to make a foreign policy, considering it, and also to be serious and sincere about this foreign policy. Dear friends, peace and stability in the Middle East can only be achieved by producing peaceful policies. If you follow a policy in the Middle East with your neighbors, with other states in the Middle East, which raise tension with sovereign nations, based solely on a relationship of interest, or a method and method of carrying water to someone else's mill, if you follow rhetoric, you will also be the greatest axe to the peace efforts of the Middle East, the peoples in the Middle East, and the efforts to live together. As a party, we are against Turkey's sending military forces abroad as a principle. Sending troops abroad earlier exposed this party's reaction to the war statements, which revealed criticism from the party. Even for peaceful purposes, we do not approve of sending military forces to Lebanon, guarding the interests of other forces in the Middle East. But what can Turkey do? If Turkey really wants peace and stability in the Middle East, especially in Lebanon, by building peace with democratic power, peaceful policies, democratic organisations, by staying at equal distance from all the communities there, by supporting the culture of all ethnic communities, religious minorities there, by creating such a peacekeeping force, but as a civilian peacekeeping force, Turkey can contribute to peace there. Turkey's history in that region requires this. This is not the only way we can raise Turkey's history in the Middle East, by amassing troops, by giving troops, by guarding the interests of others; it is the only way we can raise the dignity of our country, the prestige of our country in the Middle East. Thank you all for listening to me. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0013par0381	Thank you. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0014par0384	Mr. President, I'm here to share with you the opinion of the AK PARTI Group regarding the further extension of our Parliament's authority to send troops to the United Nations Force in Lebanon. I salute the High Council. In Lebanon, UNIFIL was founded on UNIFIL's 425 and 426 decisions adopted by the United Nations Security Council in 1978. Under such decisions, the main aims of UNIFIL were to ensure Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon and to help the establishment of international peace and security and to effectively establish authority in the region. As of March 1978, UNIFIL troops of up to 6,000 troops arrived in Lebanon. After Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon in 2000, UNIFIL had been extended in six months by the United Nations at the request of the government of Lebanon. As a result of the new conditions, UNIFIL has played the role of more observers and has reduced the number of soldiers by as much as 4,000 to 2,000. Due to the Israeli-Lubnan crisis that began in July 2006, UN Security Council Resolution 1701 on August 11, 2006, UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate and directives have been extended and the number of personnel will be increased to 15,000 troops. Under decree 1701, it has been given to the UNIFIL to monitor the stopping of conflicts in addition to the old mandate of duty, to oversee and support the deployment of the Lebanon Armed Forces along the Blue Line, as Israeli forces withdraw from Lebanon, and to assist all South Lebanon, including areas along the Blue Line, and to assist Israeli and Lebanese governments in their activities, and to provide security in providing humanitarian assistance to civilians, to help them return in safety, to create a buffer zone, to help the Lebanon army, and to assist the borders and other points of entry to Lebanon. The expanded UNIFIL consists of elements of the sea and land. For the first time in this framework, the United Nations has become a marine force. UNIFIL currently has 12.980 staff members, including 11.959/u soldiers, 355/i international civilians, 666 (also local). Security incidents on the Israeli-Lubnan border increased during 2011, following the relatively calm 2010. Ten Lebanese citizens lost their lives and 110 were injured in the intervention of Israel's troops during the demonstration at the border on the Day of the Foundation, called Nakba. Since January 2012, Italian Major General Paolo Serra has been in command of UNIFIL, and Brazil has already assumed command of the Naval Task Force. 38 countries are still contributing to UNIFIL. In October 2011, four rockets were fired from the south of Lebanon, from the northern part of El Jelil, in northern Israel, with six rockets from Israel. Two weeks after the attacks, a rocket from the south of Lebanon fell into Lebanon. There have been no casualties in the attacks. On the other hand, in 2011, there were bomb attacks targeting UNIFIL personnel. In May, three Italians, five French and five French soldiers were injured in the July attack, and five other French soldiers were wounded in December. After the attacks, France announced that it would reduce the number of soldiers serving within UNIFIL from 1,400 to 1,000. On the other hand, Israeli fighters are conducting observation activities by violating the Lebanese airspace on a daily basis. According to Lebanese military sources, Israel violated the border about 800 times in 2011. UNIFIL has been reported to have lost lives since it was founded in 294. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers played an active role in ending the Israeli-Lubnan crisis in 2006. Following the demands of the Lebanese authorities and the call of the United Nations, our country has decided to contribute to the Turkish Parliament's 5 September 2006 resolution and 880. In this framework, in October 2006, one of our construction-instruction companies took office in UNIFIL, which was located near the city of Sur in southern Lebanon. Similarly, to make a difference in winter and summer, UNIFIL Marine Task Force is also contributed by our country by a frigate, a corvet, or an assault boat. Our contribution to UNIFIL is extended by decisions made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey each year. We still have 240 assault boats and five Turkish officers at UNIFIL headquarters. Under our national restrictions, our supply-building company does not participate in security operations, only in construction operations in its area. Our company has been involved in 221 projects, including renovation and maintenance of main roads, helipad construction and maintenance, construction of schools and other public buildings. Our unity has gained both the love and trust of Lebanon's authorities and the people of the region. UNIFIL is being extended one year each year by the United Nations Security Council, and the UN Security Council is expected to extend its mandate for another year, which will expire on 31 August 2012. UNIFIL plays an important role in maintaining peace and stability in the south of Lebanon. UNIFIL also serves to prevent illegal entry into Lebanon. In this regard, the activities of the UNIFIL Marine Task Force are particularly important. Mr. President, the importance of UNIFIL's role in maintaining peace and stability in Lebanon is increasing, given the recent developments in the Middle East and Syria, and the possible impact of these developments on Lebanon. In this framework, although there have been some incidents in Tripoli, northern Lebanon, and Beirut, in connection with recent developments in Syria, the calming of the southern region of Lebanon, where UNIFIL had served, shows the positive role of UNIFIL. From the beginning, the Lebanese government has followed a policy that Lebanon should be excluded from the events in Syria. At a national dialogue meeting on 11 June 2012, all parties in Lebanon expressed support for the government's policy. Our country is of great importance to the preservation of peace and stability in Lebanon. Our country finds and supports the government of Lebanon's policy to exclude Lebanon from the incidents in Syria. Turkey expects all interested parties to respect and act accordingly to respect the Lebanese government's policy. In this framework, Lebanon also values the protection of independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. All sides and international actors in Lebanon are aware of UNIFIL (U.S.)'s role in maintaining peace and stability in Lebanon, supporting UNIFIL's role. In this framework, all sides support the extension of UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate. Lebanese officials express their thanks for our contribution to UNIFIL, and they constantly wish that our contribution would continue. Bilateral relations between our country and Lebanon continue to develop. On May 30th-31s, Lebanese Prime Minister Necip Mikati visited our country at the invitation of our Prime Minister, and talks were held with our Prime Minister. Shortly before this visit, Lebanese former Prime Minister Fuad Siniora visited our country and met with our Minister of Foreign Affairs. Our country's efforts to rescue 11 Shia Lebanese citizens kidnapped in Syria continue. In this regard, we also have contacts with Lebanese authorities and Shiite leaders in this country. Despite the Syrian depression, last year the trade volume between our country and Lebanon increased by 15 per cent to $1 billion. Because events in Syria have had a negative effect on the land transport between our country and Lebanon, the Ro-Ro campaigns between Mersin and Tripoli were launched in June. Last March, a Yunus Emre Turkish Cultural Centre also started in Beirut. Mr. President, we believe that the extension of our military elements in UNIFIL will contribute positively to bilateral relations between our country and Lebanon. It is also important for all Lebanese people and official officials to welcome our country and to expect our contributions. In this framework, we have asked permission from our great Parliament in accordance with Article 92 of our Constitution, which ensures that the time of our country's contribution can be extended in accordance with UNIFIL. Before I put an end to my words, I'd like to address some issues regarding the developments in Syria, as mentioned by earlier highly valued speakers. The developments in Syria maintain its promise and do not include optimism. In particular, the operations that the regime has recently concentrated in the northern part of the country have resulted in heavy losses and serious human rights violations. The United Nations Watch Mission suspended its activities on June 16th, due to a recent increase in armed violence in the country. In parallel with increasing violence in Syria, the number of Syrian refugees in our country, around 24,000, has exceeded 34,000 in the middle of the past month. In light of the recent foul massacres, events in Syria have entered a new stage. The international community must also establish a more stable attitude. The danger of the Syrian regime's mood has finally shown itself in the shooting of an unarmed and training-flying Turkish military aircraft by Syrian forces. It is also evidence that the Syrian government is out of control enough to provoke its neighbours and is away from rationality. The Turkish aircraft, which was shot down, carried out a pre-planned and non-existent training mission in the international airspace in the eastern Mediterranean region, alone, unarmed and clear of the identification system. A number of international institutions have made intensive attempts to inform the country of the incident, our Foreign Minister has made phone calls, and the NATO Council has been called to a meeting on June 26th under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Agreement. The NATO Council has declared this action unacceptable and condemned it with very strong statements. In the face of this aggressive action, Turkey will act decisively, undermining all rights stemming from international law, taking the necessary measures. This proved that the Assad regime was also an open and close threat to Turkey's security. After that, it's a new stage. The security threats of the Syrian regime on our borders will not be left unrequited in any way. The rules of engagement of our Turkish Armed Forces have been changed according to this new phase. It is important that the international community act in one voice and agree on a plan based on the solution to the crisis in Syria and ensure the implementation of this plan. Again, the United Nations Security Council has been forced to assume its responsibilities under the stance of the Syrian regime, which failed to meet its obligations stemming from the Annan Plan and the UN Security Council decisions. In this regard, the United Nations Security Council immediately discussed Syria and the United Nations Condition VII. Under his division, we believe he should adopt a new decision to force the Syrian regime to end violent policies and to establish the framework of the transition period, which must be initiated immediately in the country. We took note of Russia's initiative to hold an international conference with the participation of influential actors in Syria. We understand that Russia's proposal to hold an international conference is similar to the idea of Annan. We wish for a positive result from the Syrian Action Group Meeting, which will be held tomorrow with our country's participation in Geneva under the initiatives of Russia and Annan. No doubt it will be effective for the international community to come to a complete agreement on a plan that will be based on a solution by acting with the broadest possible participation and single voice to end the crisis in Syria without further bloodshed. The key to the selection of the formula for the solution to the crisis in Syria is that this formula can be applied. That's what we need to focus on. The new initiatives that have come to the agenda are also important to note that the Syrian administration is not allowed to exploit to buy time to maintain its current policies. We are ready to support any attempt to stop the blood flowing in Syria and pave the way for a political transition process aimed at democracy in accordance with the legitimate demands of the people. In this context, our country, which supported the opposition to act in unity and unity, continued its contacts with various Syrian opposition groups and continued its efforts to bring these groups together around the Syrian National Council and on the basis of the common vision of the National Document of Misak. In this regard, we have invited all sides of the opposition to the opposition meeting we held in Istanbul, which is a co-direction with the Arab League. This meeting also helped opposition groups to prepare for a broad-access conference planned for the Arab League in Cairo on July 2-3. It is our wish that our country and the international community, without further measures, cease the crisis in Syria, and ease the suffering of our Syrian brothers. For us, it is also a moral and conscientious responsibility to the people of Syria, the neighbor, the friend of history, and the brother of Syria. In our region of political reform following the Arab Spring, the scale of the incident has really moved to another level as a Turkish aircraft was brought down by a vicious attack. It is very important that all of our political parties in Turkey, all of our media members, NGOs, who have come forward on this subject, are truly, at this very critical point that we have reached today, leaving aside small interest accounts -- Turkey's security, Turkey's future, and, indeed, Turkey's great international importance today -- will not be damaged. In this crisis environment, here, today, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it's a very right approach, in the way that the high-value speakers before me have been put on, to have a level of criticism, to have opinions. However, it is an extremely wrong approach to pronounce and put such words into your mouth, so to speak, even the Syrian regime, where we have a very important crisis situation. Since the founding of the Republic of Turkey, it is important that the single body behavior and the syntax of foreign policy be continued after this, and no improvements in Turkey's interests are allowed during this period of crucial days in the world. I thank the High Council for listening to me patiently and pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0015par0423	Thank you. Now, Ismet Yilmaz, Minister of the National Defence, who has asked for a word on behalf of the government.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0016par0426	Mr. President, members of the United Nations has made a commitment to the Prime Minister's Office to allow the Constitution to be allowed to rule in accordance with Article 92 of the Constitution on September 5, 2012, to join the Turkish Armed Forces within the Lebanese Interim Task Force, and I salute our High Assembly. Mr. President, valued MPs, the UN Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) was established on 11 August 2006 by the United Nations Security Council's 1701th Amendment. Based on the direct demands of the Lebanese authorities and the security conditions in the region, the government's proposal allowed Turkish Armed Forces to participate in UNIFIL, with decision 880 taken by the Grand National Assembly on 5 September 2006. In this framework, the unity and ships that we have contributed to UNIFIL's naval and land forces have served in the region since October 2006. The mission of UNIFIL (UNIFIL) was generally determined to monitor the ceasefire on the border with Lübnan-Israel, to deliver humanitarian aid to civilians in this region, to ensure the sovereignty of Lebanon's government in every part of Lebanon, to prevent Lebanon from entering the country without the consent of the government. The United Nations member states have also requested support in order to fulfill the tasks specified. In addition to the duties I've stated, UNIFIL has been decided by the United Nations that armed elements will not be used in any mission, including deletion of weapons in the region. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are contributing to the UNIFIL Naval Task Force by a frigate, a corvette, or an assault boat, with 45-per-day periods. Our current contribution is the offensive. About 240 personnel and our deployment unit are deployed in the village of the Co-host in the city of Sur. Our officers also serve at UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s headquarters in Nakura Lebanon. The port of Mersin was announced as the designated port for the use of countries participating in UNIFIL under UN Security Council Resolution 1701. Since 20 October 2006, the Turkish construction-building company has carried out more than two hundred and twenty projects, including renovation and maintenance of main supply roads, heliport construction and maintenance, construction of infrastructures, maintenance of existing buildings and structures, construction of new structures and shelters, as part of tasks carried out by UNIFIL. In addition, the construction of borderstones on the Lebanon-Israel border line also carried out its duties. In addition to their duties given by UNIFIL, our Turkish camp-building company has also earned the appreciation of the region's citizens through its civil-military cooperation. The Turkish Armed Forces and the Republic of Turkey continue to contribute to peace in the world and in the light of Ataturk. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Lebanon is in a difficult geography in every respect. Maintaining peace, calm and stability in Lebanon, such a difficult geography, is mandatory for the peace of the region. Therefore, UNIFIL is needed to continue its mission, which UNIFIL has successfully carried out so far. There are around 13,000 staff members from all countries, including Turkey, in the UNIFIL, as well as about 40 (40) countries that provide power for UNIFIL. I would like to name a few of them: Germany, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, China, Denmark, Indonesia, France, Italy, Hungary, Nigeria, Portugal, Serbia, Greece, Spain and many other states. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, this ore created in the Republic of Turkey belongs to all of us, and it is our common responsibility to protect it. To do that, we have to be one, we have to be together, and when it comes to national interests, we have to put aside the differences. Our country's contribution has been determined to support peace in each period. It's also the duty of our national responsibility. The Continental Resort Convention between Lebanon and the Greek Cypriot Administration was not approved by the Lebanese Parliament. Therefore, it is not right to say that on the basis of an uninstructioned contract, Turkey's interests in the continental shelf in the Mediterranean are not protected. Again, in a way, every resource in the south of Cyprus has been expressed by all countries, including Christofias, with the right of the people of Northern Cyprus. Another issue is: "Strong Syrian policy has not been implemented," he says. Not to see, not to hear, the violation of human rights of the Bezar Assad. If that is understood from the discreet policy, we, the government, will never do so. Again, we have opposed all kinds of religious, regional, racist discrimination. We were never racist, we were not sectarian. We thought racism and sectarianism were a product of ignorance. As Mehmet Akif. Mehmet Aqif....Arab had the advantage over Turk, Lazın Çerkeke, or Kurde/Acemin China? Where is it? We know that the idea is being communicated by the people. Isn't faith in the heart of our front, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one? So we are a nation. Those who have a share in the past share in it, and those who have a share in it belong to a people who have a share in it. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, UNIFIL has been temporarily appointed to serve as a year in the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, envisioning an extension every year if necessary. Until now, UNIFIL (UNIFIL)'s mandate, which contributes to stabilisation at the border with Lebanon and Israel, has been extended regularly every year. The mandate is expected to be extended by the United Nations Security Council for another year, starting on 31 August 2012. In light of these issues, we ask for permission of the Turkish Armed Forces, under Article 1701 of the United Nations Security Council on September 5th 2006 and Article 880 under the principles determined by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, on September 5, 2012, to participate in the UNIFIL operations for another year, to provide accession and the necessary arrangements to be carried out by the government. Mr. President and members of lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I wish you luck now.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0017par0445	Thank you. Now, Mehmet Ali Ediboglu, Hatay MP who has asked for a word on his behalf.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0018par0448	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to inform you of the events in the Middle East and the recent plane crisis, and to inform the public. Dear friends, I need a AKP spokesman, Mr. Secretary has stressed that foreign policy should be a national policy. That's what happened throughout the history of the Republic; every time there was a problem with foreign policy, every opposition party in this House would come together, they'd meet, they'd make a joint decision, and they'd put all 73 million behind him, and they'd put it into practice, standing behind him, until the Middle East crisis. Now, at this point we've come to say that in the last year and a half, there has been a national policy followed in the Middle East issues, unfortunately, because this policy -- it is necessary -- all of these decisions that have been made regarding events referred to as the Arab Spring in the Middle East -- which have been called the Syrian crisis -- are the only decisions that have been made by the government and by the US Secretary of State, Mrs. Clinton, with the opinion of the civil society, without consulting other parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and at this point that we have come to this point, Turkey has been discredited, and therefore the opposition leaders have had to remember the opposition and the opposition. Let's try to remember how we got to the desperation that got the Prime Minister into this situation. Friends, the media has a major flaw in this, and I want to tell you that the media is giving a bad test. Congressmans, if we recall, the media may have done its job well in the last year and a half, but in the name of journalism, I think the last two years of history will be a black mark in media history. In the future, journalists may not want to read these two years, and we'll see that in future dates, because when you put together what was written on the media, the national media, the international media, the Middle East Spring, the Syrian crisis, together, you can clearly see that there was an incredible intent in Turkish media to disintegrate, to channel society elsewhere. In this regard, the world's most famous media executives and columnists criticised Turkish media from time to time, coming to Turkey, and criticising their corners. Do your duty, do your journalism. I don't know if the Turkish media -- fear or not -- has blocked their ears, but they've continued to spread false news, spread false news, spread false news that would only be given, information that someone would like, to convince the community. To illustrate: A delegation of observers was sent to Syria by Arab League countries. The report, published by around 250 observers from 22 Arab League countries, did not appear in Turkish media. In this report, all the world's media wrote that violence was bilateral in Syria, that both the regime and the dissidents massacred civilians, and we could not see a single line, a single sentence, in Turkish media. So our government doesn't like this kind of report. So it wasn't asked to be written, and we didn't see this news in Turkish media, but the Turkish people also read it in foreign media because they lost confidence in the media, and so did the curious ones. Then there was the Hula massacre. In the Hula massacre, Annan made a statement to the international media, saying: "This is not a provocation, it is not the work of the regime, it is not the work of the opposition, it is the first time I'm talking about the existence of a third group. The army of assassins known for the massacres in Blackwater, Iraq, pointed to Bakckwater. This was not part of the Turkish media. There were some very serious allegations about the sphere in the international media, and we didn't see them in the Turkish media. So, when we brought in some criticism, maybe you were angry with us, maybe you reacted, but the media is not just Turkish media. The world is watching the media from everywhere, and the Turkish people are watching foreign media. I think the Government of the Republic of Turkey should be able to take any media news seriously and respond to all media reports that have disturbed our country, damaged our national integrity. Now, where you're coming from, let's take a look at ourselves. Until a year ago, Arab League meetings were held. Twenty-two Arab League nations announced that they were with Turkey until the end, while today, outside Qatar and Saudi Arabia, there are no Arab League members left. NATO member states, European countries and the United States, who have been gasting us all the time, continue to give us gas. We are not in this business, Turkey says, "Let Turkey take care of it." And all international media claims that Turkey is subcontractoric. Foreign officials of the Republic of Turkey, who have not responded to international organisations since months since Turkey was subcontractor, have had a huge reaction when we CHP spokesman say so. We wished that he could say that his reaction to the columnists in the United States, to the analysts in England, to the Middle East experts in Germany, to the writings written in Israel, we are not subcontractors. Only Republican People's Party spokesmen say you're subcontractors. We saw the reaction when we called. There have been serious allegations in international media about the plane crisis recently. From the government, which has blocked their ears, we need to respond to these claims. When we say, "They are a product of imagination." I've brought up these allegations. It was said in foreign media that when you read the articles published in four or five countries at the same time, Syria will be brought down with an operation of the Libyan model. When it is said under it, Libyan to Malta, Libyan operation, two planes were hijacked a month before the air strike, and the two planes were decrypted and loaded into two NATO planes, and Libyan air defence systems were first paralyzed and then bombed by NATO planes, and then returned without casualties, and writers from the same operation had been considered for Syria since a month. Ten days before our plane crashed, an MiG-21 defected from Syria to Jordan. His family was also in foreign media, where he was brought to Turkey, and there was no response from Turkey. Look, Turkey's been accused here. His family was brought to Turkey, and this plane was hijacked in Jordan, and then, before Jordan, they were taken to Tel Aviv, then to İncirlik, where they were taken to İncirlik, and they were uploaded to a Turkish plane, and this plane would be perceived as a friendly aircraft in the Syrian air defence system, and they wrote foreign publications that would be very comfortable and test the air defence systems there; we were curious, and we expected to respond to that from the government wing. This information quickly spread across the international media. When no response came, why didn't the government of Turkey respond to my message to the press? There are serious allegations here. I said, "Imagination crop." They said. Friends, we brought up some allegations when the Globebullet Missile Shield was installed, all of which were called "dream crops." But we learned that none of these were imaginary, that they were all real, and in time, we learned that they were all real. Guys, we're a society that knows how to turn this crisis into an opportunity. We're in contact with Syria today with the search for our two pilots and our plane that crashed at sea. We must strive to make this communication, this traffic to contribute to friendship, and as the Republican People's Party, to say no to war. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] All of us, I am concerned that we, the House, must cooperate to contribute to this peace climate. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0019par0461	Thank you. Abdullah Levent Tüzel, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0020par0463	Mr. President, we're here to discuss the extension of the declaration of giving power to soldiers held under the name of the Peace Corps from Turkey in Lebanon. Of course, I would advise that such a statement should not be approved as a lawmaker for the brotherhood and peace of the peoples. Once again, in the last week of the coven, we're talking about the issues of war and peace. In particular, international relations and foreign policy lines followed by the government on behalf of the state are unapproveable to the relations it recently entered with Syria. We've just heard from the AKP Group, the esteemed MP and Minister. Not to participate in optimism and to expect commitment from the international community, these are the words of the danger that is actually coming. Again, Mr. Secretary, the racist, the sectarian, says we've never been there, unless they're good adjectives, which are impossible to defend, but I wish we could believe them. US-Israel plans have been in the area for a long time. This plan, in particular, is clearly to establish a dominant force based on the Sunni-Shii sectal conflict. Unfortunately, after the fall of the Turkish plane, you know a lot of comments, publications are being made, military convoys are being transported to the Syrian border, and in fact, there is a buffer zone in the region. In particular, after the crash of the fighter, international diplomacy, under the rules of law, a pressure, an isolation environment, and preparations for intervention appear to be also a psychological effort to create a psychological environment for this kind of intervention. We saw the latest example on Tuesday, in the position and will of the prime minister's group talk. In particular, behind the words of the passive country, behind the words of the passive country, a clear empirical aggression has been lit up and given its justification. When you hear these words, you think the more war, the more work and the more bread will come. In fact, we all know that war is a life-right violation. This is actually the Syrian airspace that the fighter's radar is testing, and the result of this dangerous attempt has been the death of two pilots with clear provocations, and the precious MPs, the great state's dreams have fallen into the water in the Mediterranean, and those who have fallen into the water have been surrounded by NATO. In fact, the whole process, when we look at the painting, we see that a plan is being carried out. Because the Turkish fighter is not there by chance, NATO is there to carry out its mission. Of course -- as the prime minister said very well -- that shouldn't be the answer to a short-term border violation, so it shouldn't be taking down the fighter plane, but we also need to see the perception that the Syrian government has arrived, that the Syrian people have arrived. When Assad receives the word, he returns to his people and says, "We are at war." He works as a war government, and the support he received from the people brought Syria to this provocation as a result. Deputies should not be underestimated by what we call provocation. In the world where we live, the first second share wars in history have come from such provocations. So the prime minister says he's making an accusation that he's going to frame his own country, so they're looking at it with critical eyes. But I'm afraid that's the case. The government of Turkey, with its policies in the Middle East, especially Syria, is doing a number of things that are unfortunately suspected of its foreign policy. As if these were not enough, they fought to protect their Sultan Jerusalem, Damascus. (I mean, the Prime Minister, who is doing what he is doing today, continuing this policy from here, and now, very clearly, they don't represent the empirical, disseminating policy, saying, "Get rid of the dictators." (Look at the words of Zalim.) He has made it very clear that he is trying to overthrow Assad. And now, as if it were not enough, he has declared this economist politics that has sunk the Ottoman. Those words are not just words. Today we see this conquest, this spirit, this foreign policy, in many international agreements with African countries, and many international agreements that will be extended and discussed. Look, the high-value lawmakers are under open and close threat, especially after this plane has been shot down. The new military engagements have been detected, saying, "Don't get too close, we'll hit." And it's clear that the security risks will not go unrequited, and it's a clear preparation for the military convoys, as it is today. Dear lawmakers, there's a process that begins with the Annan Plan, and it's actually called the process of overthrowing Assad. It's the plan, it's the witch's boiler, it's the fire that's being fired at. Your imperial plans, the cards of the accounts, are seen through Syria. You know, on one side of these plans are the United States and Western forces, and on the other side is an imperialist alliance of Russia and China. Their imperialist plans in this region: sharing, influence, domination, sectarian conflicts, division, new designs. So, what happens to Turkey? What do Turkey's big state dreams have to offer to Turkey? Dear lawmakers, the results of these recent tense policies are very clear. This line and charisma followed by the highly praised Prime Minister is drawn, drawn. The inevitable end to the monitoring of Sunni policies in the region -- policies that support the Sunni -- is that the process from that one minute is the Prime Minister's loss of reputation, Turkey's demeanour. Look, valuable lawmakers, do you realize that the workers of Turkey are against intervention and war? There's a story in the Universal newspaper today that the Department of Sociology at Çukurova University has done a survey. In the survey conducted between 564 people in Adana and the region, the United States opposes the plan and the war. You should know that 30 per cent of the people who supported the AKP are opposed to this intervention. The U.S. and Westerners are looking for an opportunity to attack without UN approval. That's what Hillary Clinton made our country his next-door neighbor. What Turkey calls the leadership of the region, is to subcontractorise such a miserable plan; now that subcontractorship has become a hitman, but on the other hand, Syria, which came into provocation, has been put into international isolation and has set the stage for preparation, especially by dropping its fighter plane. Dear MPs, who will determine the future of Syria, the issue of workers, internationalists, solidarity, friendship, brotherhood? We say, "Will the people determine the future of Syria, or are the imperialists who have been stripped to share it?" Of course, our wish is to determine the future of the people without interference in Syria with a democratic government. This is the wish, the effort of the workers of Turkey, the democratic congress of the peoples. Turkey, what we're going to say is that no matter what name it's under, it shouldn't have soldiers on foreign soil outside the border. As we always say, peace in the land, peace in the region, peace in the world is what our citizens and people wish. Thank you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0021par0480	Thank you. Congressmans, the negotiations on the Prime Minister's Office have been completed. Now I'll have the counter read again and vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As part of the UN Security Council's 1701/8/2006 resolution (2006) and Turkish Parliament's 5/9/2006 resolution for 880, Turkey has contributed to the United Nations Interim Task Force (UNIFIL) with the elements of the Armed Forces. The length of the permit is finally extended by a year from 5/9/2011, dated 5/7/2011 by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. With its contributions to the UNIFIL ground operation and the naval task force, Turkey has actively carried out an important function in the implementation of the peacekeeping operation, so that its appearance within the United Nations system, both on a regional and global scale, and has improved its status. Turkey's participation in UNIFIL has contributed substantially to the continuation of its policy on maintaining peace and stability in the region. UNIFIL's mandate will expire on 31/8/2012 and is expected to be adopted by the United Nations Security Council in August to renew its mandate for the period after 31/8/2012. The political climate and security environment in Lebanon are thought to be appropriate for our military elements in the country to continue their duties. Given our bilateral relations with Lebanon and the security conditions in the region, if the United Nations Security Council decides to extend UNIFIL's mandate, I will allow the Turkish Armed Forces elements, which will be determined by the government, under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1701, and under the principles determined by TBMM Resolution 880, to participate in the UNIFIL operation for another year from 5/9/2012, and to make the necessary arrangements to be carried out by the Government.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0022par0492	Mr. President, the decision is enough...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit01spe0021par0493	I'll call. I will submit to your votes, but I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who refuse... the MPs, the decision is sufficient and accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0023par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 127th Union of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of İstanbul MP Ayşe Nur Bahkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın; Turkey's Grand National Assembly Institution Proposal for Change; Tunceli MP Kamer Gen's on the amendment of Articles of the Turkish Grand National Assembly; and the Constitutional Commission Report from where we left off. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked second. Commission? No. It's been postponed. 3rd ranked Manisa MP Recai Berber and Bart's MP Yilmaz Tunç and 6 MPs; Cumhuriyet People's Party Vice President Mehmet Akif Hamzacebi; National Education Ministry's Minister's Proposal to Alternate Law on the Agency and Jobs; Balıkesir MP Namık Havutççça; The Order of Unsubstantial Teachers to Determinate Forces and State Officers' Law on Organizations and Orders; The Proposal of Law on Laws and Orders of Public Education; Mustafa Kalaj MP and Minister's Minister's Minister for Law on Law; We shall underline the Proposals and Underlines of Education; We shall underline the Minister's Education and Undergraduration of Non-Citable Teachers and Ministerships's Orders' Law on National Education Law; We shall underline and Proposals and Ministership of Education Laws Orders and Ministerships and Ministerships of Education. Commission? No. He's postponed it. We are starting talks on the 4th ranking Turkish Accreditation Foundation's draft law on the Constitution and its duties and its reports on the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 311 rows. Members of parliament, this bill shall be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code according to the decision taken. Therefore, after all negotiations on the bill have been agreed to be completed and passed on to its articles, it will be discussed in sections, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Nazmi Gür, Van MP who has asked on behalf of the entire bill on behalf of groups. Here you go, Mr. Gür.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0024par0027	Thank you, Mr. President. I have made a pledge on my group on the relevant bill. Dear friends, we will briefly express our views on the Turkish Accreditation Foundation's Law Bill on the Foundation and its Missions and on the Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission Report. Our group also supports this bill, which allows us to bring goods and services to European Union standards and to make bilateral agreements with international contracts and international institutions that operate on the subject. With this bill, no doubt, we support this initiative, which will enable all international companies who are trading internationally, all companies operating in the property and service sector, to improve their quality in international standards and to improve their efforts in this regard, and we have made it official on behalf of our group. With international organisations to operate in the international field creating their own standards and implementing international standards, it will mean that companies, institutions working in this area, will also raise their standards, and in this regard, it will make a very positive and useful development. (x) 311 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. We, as a group, wish this law to be good luck and good luck. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0025par0035	Thank you, Mr. Gür. Second speaker on behalf of the groups, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Im, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0026par0039	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the draft law on amendments to Turkey's Accreditation Foundation and its duties, which are held at 311 rows. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation who follow us once again. Dear lawmakers, this bill is actually a bill that has entered the working programme today on the last days of our great Parliament due to a technical bill and a necessity in context. With this bill, the 25-point content of date 27/10/1999 and Turkish Law 4457 has been reduced to 17 articles, so the law has been updated. The reason for the upgrade of the law has come from the obligation to change certain technical issues mentioned in the reports of international organisations, which the European Accreditation Union has included, and this bill has passed through our Commission and has now been submitted to our General Assembly's approval in accordance with the information included in these warnings and written reports. Here, ahead of the commission talks, there have been some negative developments in the General Assembly that we have seen from time to time and have lived frequently in the last few days, which have suddenly been brought to the Commission's agenda and ignored the provisions in the Interior Charter, which unfortunately none of us have approved but have had to happen. For example, on June 25, 2012, it was 18 o'clock. We received a summons from our Commission at 00, which, on the basis of the call of the Industrial, Trade, Energy and Natural Resources and Technology Commission, the Commission should meet and discuss this bill at least 48 hours after the internal Charter's rulings, but the talks were launched less than 48 hours later, when the Republican People's Party and members of the National Movement Party had to abandon the first meeting by reacting to the opposition parties. Some attempts on him and the search for mutual compromises resulted, and the Commission concluded this bill on the following day, the following June 28, 2012, by showing a good example of work. I would like to say that the ruling party, depending on its numerical majority in both the General Assembly and the commissions, we can pass the law whenever we want. If it continues to maintain an understanding of the form of the word, we will experience many negatives together. Many of the friends we have worked with for years on this commission have had to make some words about each other that we don't want to hear or want to say about each other, so I wish this hadn't happened. During yesterday's Commission talks, the proposed amendments to the effort of all of our parties have been made, and with the help of valued bureaucrats in the Commission on behalf of the government, this bill has come to your attention today. On this occasion, I would like to thank our friends who have worked in the past years not to pay attention to the warnings of the European Accreditation Union, which we have been members of since 2006, but also the valued bureaucrats of the EU Ministry of the European Union, who have been bound to the Ministry in April, with extraordinary effort to make the necessary corrections and arrangements, and to make them available to our Commission in such a short time. But I wish it hadn't been put on hold until now, but the bill would have come on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and come out in time after the commissions had been debated. After all, I wish the bill to be a blessing in the hope that it will be passed today. Some significant changes have been made in the bill. Some of the regulations in the government's bill, with the unanimous and joint proposals of our members of the Commission, have been transformed from our Commission, especially to the form of the Council of Ministers, in the form of the Council of Ministers, which existed in the previous Law, and have been set in order to ensure that both the number of members of the advisory board will be increased and the number of representatives of the public and private sectors will be equally weighted. In the same way, provisions have been discussed in detail in the Commission, the way the board members work, their tasks and the way they are organized, after a detailed discussion of the duties of the institution's service units and the positions of those who will take part in the commission -- as will be seen in the draft text. But when he fears (Allah), it will come to pass. In particular, during the Commission's talks on the revenues of the institution, the one-percent cut, which is a very important part of the revenues, has been transformed into an institutional-registered figure, which is more than one per cent, because this share from the labs has been taken as a gross percentage of revenue. Later, however, there was a complaint that gross income was interpreted differently in practice and that different payments were involved in different ways in different places. Perhaps a motion to amend it with a motion that our fellow commissioners will meet with him. We wish to continue contributing to that point. Other than that, there's not much to say about other things. Before the Supreme Assembly takes any more time, I wish again the good of the law to use the rest of my words in another speech, and I thank all those who have done it. I'll take eleven minutes and twenty-two seconds, and I'll give you all my compliments to use it later.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0027par0051	Thank you, Mr. Light. There's no further demands for the groups. On behalf of Mr. Emin Haluk Ayhan, Denizli MP. Mr. Ayhan, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0028par0056	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a personal pledge on Bill 311. I hereby salute the grand jury. The general reason for the bill is that Turkey's law and its compatibility assessment agencies in our country have been provided with the services of accretion. Turkey's European Accreditation Union, established by the European Union in 2006, also includes the issue of signing a mutual agreement with the International Accreditation Forum in 2007. It is also stated that Turkey is a full member of the International Accreditation Association. In order to maintain mutual agreements, Turkish Parliament must be adopted into accordance with ISO 17011 standard and European Union Charter 765/2008. The 2011 progress report states that there is a problem with administrative and financial autonomy in Turkey's Turkish Law because there are no changes in it. The ISO 17011 standard of Turkish Law does not meet EU Charter 765/2008. Well, there's been power for ten years. These events show that the AKP would never have dealt with such matters without necessity. When we really study it, it turns out that the AKP was not particularly interested in these things, unless it was obligatory, or deliberately, without realizing it. Last year, a law was passed; its signature was forged, not forged; the signature was filled out, not filled out; you received a law of authority. You've made a lot of changes to this in public. Then why didn't you set up this law? There would never have been so much trouble in the House, so much haste. This is because AKP's ineptitude, if not inept, does not realize what the job is. Now, you're looking at the reasons for the substance, which may or may not be written down. What's he saying? The duties and powers of the institution are being rearranged. You can write that down on one side, why are you redecorating this material, what you need, what you need. This one came in a hurry. Let's figure this out so that we don't embarrass ourselves and the European Union, no matter how we solve it before the House closes. This is nothing else. Indeed, when you examine their motives, a sentence does not make any sense. Then why are you bringing this? If you had, you'd have made a bill of law, you'd have brought it here in a large amount of time, you'd have spread the word. Now, a job has to be serious. You see her in the middle of the night, you don't know what you're seeing. The bureaucrats, who came to inform on the government's behalf in the commission, are being battered by ruling members as though they are independent of the government. Is that even possible? That bureaucrat represents the Minister, represents the government. Why is this bill late? The members of the commission are beating up bureaucrats there. That's not gonna happen. I made a promise, I said it. I said: these bureaucrats represent the state, they represent the government, how can you say such a thing? Go see your Minister, go see the Prime Minister. Is such a thing possible? Yet the members of the Commission have no idea where this is going. The bureaucrats are certainly no stranger to God, but they are trying to earn their bread and serve the nation. Other than that, there is a purpose for some business associations to be tried here, the General Assembly, the Council of Counsellors, and now a service association to TUSKON. But there are some of you who are hurting, there's no way that Tuskon should be put here. I'm a member of the so-and-so association, for example, the MISIAD, why isn't she here? She's upset, I know that. When you see each other, you say it, you say it when you're talking to us, but when we say it, there's a problem between you, reflected up to your associations, it's clear, it's seen in the collision here. Maybe they'll assign a group -- it's sometimes in the press -- to the Minister to clean it up. Other than that, when our public official friend, representing the government, told us there, how to make the decision to make the activations, the balanced representation of the private sector outside the public and the public, independent of the institutions in which the appropriate assessments and the institutions in which the TÜRKAK is acquired... The number of substances he gave is six. When we change the six points, we solve the problem. You're defeating the entire law, where do you see the need for renovations? It doesn't come out that you need something like that for substance reasons or anything. Now, the truth of what you're doing then is that there's no lining. What's the European Union's obligation to do? You're doing this to get rid of him, to do what he needs to do. Otherwise, you have no understanding of Turkish language, no understanding of the nature of Turkak. Can I raise my own member, not the former member of the agency, or whatever... what? It's his problem. Now, wherever you look, the AKP's transformer -- I told you here yesterday -- is broken from headquarters. When the setting escapes the center, it spreads to your veins, to organizations, everywhere. Now, it's out of tune, of course, it doesn't. The power from the transformer doesn't go off evenly, it goes on different amps, it cuts off from time to time. Then what's going on? It's a problem. When you're sitting here, you can't even do the job without talking to Ahmet, Mehmet. I'm saying this for the sake of... Mr. Nihat, you can come talk to him if you want. He's getting paid a lot of money for accretion. Now, look, it's not just about the accordion, it's about other things. Now, if the law of authority was really reported to the prosecutor's office, the prosecutor's office, or whoever the commissioner or officials were that day - is Mr. Recai here? - he'll start an investigation. Why? Either one of us doesn't really explain to us that there's a piece of paper, abroad, the fellow on the commission is another, the one that's either stuffed or one of them is a fake. Both cases are wrong. Minister, you are the Minister, would you do such a thing? The Ministry did, Mr. President, he served in the government, would he? I'm afraid it's happening.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0029par0067	The signature was wet, but, you know.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0028par0068	Tell me when he got kicked out. Now, the important thing here is that the government's job is to be one, decent; two, legal. You're doing it to save today in a square where it's already not right. Is that legal? Indeed, when it is said that some day tomorrow, men will take it into their hands -- one who investigates or looks, if need be, who will look, and say, "There is no reason here, there is no reason, there is no meaning." Now, this is a really troubling situation. However, I thank your friends for their efforts in the cooperation of the Commission, and I wish this law to be a blessing, thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0030par0073	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan. Any further requests on behalf of groups and individuals? No. We don't have friends in the system for questions and answers. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, we will now begin the negotiations of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 8th article. Anybody want a word on chapter one? No. There's no request for a QA on chapter one. So, we're moving on to the materials. No motions on item 1. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on Article 2. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are no motions on the third article. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a request for a revision on the 6th article. Here you are, Commissioner. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, RESPONSIBILITY, INFORMATION, AND TEKNOLOGY THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT, Mr. President, we'd like to ask that the audit board be voted together with the approval of a review board at the end of Article 9 of Article 6. Thank you. I hereby submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There's a request for a reduction on the 7th article. SANAYI, ENERGY, ENERGY, ENERGY LOCATIONS, INFORMATION, AND TEKNOLOGY COMMUNITY OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE PRESIDENT CENTER OF THE COMMUNITY (CONJECT) I submit the 7th article to your votes with the authority to write, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, the clauses on the first section are accepted. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part includes Articles 9 and 17. No one wants a word on chapter two. We're going to vote on the matter. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you four minutes to vote on the entire bill, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the open vote on the amendment to the Law on the Foundation of the Turkish Accreditation Foundation and its duties is: "The number of votes used : 222 [[x]] Mine Leuk White Özlem Yemisçi That way the bill is legalized. Good luck with that. Members of parliament, we begin negotiations with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 5th place of 5th place in the Budget Laws, where some provisions should be added to the Rules of the Law and Code of Law. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed by 312. Congressmans, according to the decision taken, this bill will be considered as the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the bill will be discussed in sections after negotiations on all of them have been agreed to be completed and transferred to their articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Love's Türeli, Republican People's Party Izmir MP who wants to speak on the whole bill. Here you go, Mr. Türeli.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0031par0134	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge to make a statement on the Republican People's Party's Party's views on Bill 312 rows. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, of course, as of yesterday, we met at the Plan Budget Commission, and today it's a bill that quickly came to the General Assembly agenda. In essence, some of the materials found in the Central Management Budget Law of 2012 -- some of them are repetitive, repetitive, repetitive -- are part of the law. This is, in fact, appropriate because there's no point in putting them in the budget bill every year, and in time, the volume of the budget bill is already increasing. Now, of course, there's a question mark here, and it's important to pay attention to it: some issues may be related to a need that was created at that time in the budget bill of the year, so it doesn't come in response to a repeated need that is valid every year. In this sense, there is a serious problem with such laws being carried into the relevant laws of such substances. That, of course, needs a lot of attention. In that respect, of course, the budget bill may need to be simplified a little bit more and reduce the number of substances, but it should also be noted. And it's really important that some of the laws of matter, which are really long term, corresponding to constant needs, are carried to the relevant laws, or today you make the law, you carry it to the law, and in a year or two years, you have to change them. That doesn't make any sense either. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words about budgetary rights and Turkey's economy's performance in the budget. Dear friends are one of the main causes of parliament (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 312 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. drafting budgets is the reason for the budget's existence -- to seize certain public resources and distribute them into certain spending priorities -- in other words, the budget is a redistribution mechanism. What kind of public resources are being seized in this regard? I mean, especially taxation, other public revenues. This is of great importance. On the other hand, what kind of expenses are these being directed at, and with the arrangements for the interests of which groups, a distribution mechanism has triggered them? That's just as important. First of all, I want to draw attention to that. The second thing, dear friends, is that there is a practice that the AKP governments often make a habit of, which is that they do not comply with their own laws. See, Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 was issued during the AKP government, dated 2003. There are two basic documents that start the budget preparation process for Turkey's economy, dear friends. One is the Moderate Programme, and the other is the Central Financial Plan. The Central Future Program is the State Planning Agency, currently known as the Ministry of Development, ready by the end of May. This Midterm Program is the basic document. Here are the basic macroeconomic sizes of an economy about the coming period. From the back to the 15th of June, the Ministry of Finance must prepare the Central Future Financial Plan. After that, the budget process begins, calls for budgets to public institutions, and there's an investment general, so there's a generalization of the basics of preparing the investment programme. According to him, relevant institutions provide budgets for public institutions. They send cari spending to the Finance Ministry and investment spending to the Ministry of Development. Then there'll be negotiations. This is such a process of maturity, and as a result, on October 17th, there will be a process leading to the drafting of the budget law, and then the process of meeting in Parliament begins. Now, we're looking at, for the past three or four years, AKP governments have insisted on delaying the preparation of these documents, and there's been a serious delay in preparing them and naturally publishing them. We don't understand why this is happening, guys. In some years there may be unpredictable crises, domestic or external economic, political crises. There may be a delay in preparing these documents in the results, but this, you see, has been a habit for the past three or four years, and the latest record has been broken as the 2012 budget is being prepared, my dear friends. The Central Time Program, which should be prepared by the end of May, and the Central Timed Financial Plan, which should be prepared by the 15th of June, was drafted on October 13, 2011, and the budget law was submitted to parliament on 17 October 2011. According to this, the entire budget has been prepared in four days, dear friends. How did this happen? The basic sizes don't exist, what expenses are to be made, the priorities are unclear, so how is this prepared? It's groped. There's no such thing as informality, dear friends, government management is a serious business. Budget rights are one of the main reasons for a parliament's existence. This matter needs to be taken special care of. Other than that, the preparation of the laws is not only in preparation, but also in serious relationships with their qualifications. That's not enough, dear friends, as you know, in the election process, a law of authority was passed in May. On the basis of that authority law, he issued 35 decrees under the law of the AKP government, and in the bag we met yesterday, which is now withdrawn, some of the amendment demands have come to the agenda. It began in June -- after that, you know, the House opened, closed, under oath, opened again from October after that -- until November 3rd, when the six months were over. While the House is open, the authority of the House has been hijacked, dear friends. I mean, I don't understand how we can be insensitive to these things, and I don't understand it, and in these 35 laws, there's not always some sort of arrangement of things that don't matter in everyday life, all of Turkey's public bureaucratic system has been reconstructed, dear friends. There's no way to accept such a thing. This shows how illegitimate the AKP government is in law enforcement, law-making procedures, and techniques. On the other hand, in terms of budget performance, the economy of Turkey is getting worse, dear friends. The measures taken after the 2001 crisis have continued to be implemented until today without any changes during the AKP period. It is not possible to understand that a crisis of that period would continue to be implemented under the same conditions and under the same conditions when a stability programme, based on the needs of the crisis, is not in the crisis. Based on what, dear friends? First of all, a strict financial policy has been put into practice, which is heavily concentrated beyond interest. Likewise, a monetary policy focused on reducing inflation has been implemented. The result was further deepening the current structural problems of the Turkish economy. In the 1990s, which includes two narrowings in 1994 and 1999, let's compare that period with 2003-2011: the percentage of domestic savings in national income has dropped rapidly. In the same way, the economy's total investments have also reduced its share in national revenues. Look, dear friends, in the 1990s, total investments have a 23 percent share in national income, but in total domestic savings -- when we think of public and private -- is 23 percent in national income. So the economy of Turkey has practically expanded the economy in this period without any external deficits, without any current transactions. However, investments during the AKP period dropped from 23 per cent to 20 per cent. But the decline in savings has been much higher than that, and savings have dropped from 23 percent to 15 percent, and as a result of that, the average rate of current transactions has an average of 5 per cent of the average income. As of 2011, that number is 10 percent, dear friends. This shows us that an economic programme focused solely on public discipline, budget balance, has no chance of success, dear friends. Economics is not just public. In Turkey's economy, when we look at the public sector-private sector, according to different indicators, the public sector weighs about 10 per cent or 15 per cent. The rest is done and created by the private sector. In the private sector, of course, we watch in two sections, as well as in the households and companies. Now, of course, when we look at the lowness of these savings in this particular sector, we see many factors. The AKP period, which we discussed, in 2003-2011, was a rapid increase in debt trends for both households and companies. According to the National Bank's data today -- which is official data of the state -- the people of the household have a 52 percent share in their household income -- as of 2011, valuable friends -- there's an incredible rise in debt rates in people in this community. What kind of success is that? That's what I'm wondering. What can be said of the success of an economic programme, a system that doesn't consider people living in the economy, that doesn't increase their welfare, that makes them even more in debt? I'd like to ask you. So the conclusion then is that the balance of budgets in the Turkish economy is of course important in our budget, so we say, let's set the budget completely free, let's do all the spending without control, let's spend all the wasteful money, let's make it clear. But we don't say, let's say, let's say that the balance of the budget is as special as he is. That's the first thing I want to say. The second thing I want to say is that the improvement in budget balance is largely due to the decline in personnel costs and investment spending. The overall balance of public investments dropped from 4.9 per cent in 2002 to 4.3 per cent in 2011.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0032par0153	The officer doesn't have a salary raise, that's why.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0031par0154	Of course, last time we talked about a raise, dear friends. You know, Mr. Finance Minister came out about the personnel costs, what did he say, if you remember? He said the share of the staff costs increased from 18 per cent to 28 per cent. We said in our speech that this was actually a mathematical account, a mistake. So I'd like to rephrase that, dear friends, that doesn't mean anything because there's a reduction in the budget's share in national income, so there's a serious reduction in public service in this budget. Think of a family, a family of four. Let every man and woman of the family of four have half a loaf of bread, and let them have four breads. Right, guys? Then what is it? Each person's share is 25 percent; one quarter is 25 percent. Now, for any reason, someone in the family should leave, go to school, for example, the family's child, stay three, and continue to eat half a loaf of bread. They buy bread and a half, of course. What's their cut, then, fellas? It's down to one third, so it's up to 33 percent. So, as you can see, the same bread is eaten, the numerator is the same, but when you look at it, mathematically -- a mathematical process, a numerator and a denominator -- it looks like the share of staff spending has been increased based on the shrinking of the denominator. Dear friends, this is a serious deception. Serious withdrawals from public space in the education sector and health care sector, dear friends. These jobs are being tried to be transferred to the private sector in an increasing fashion. So that's what we see in the do-and-do model, in the plans that come our way. Of course, we're not against private sector investments, dear friends. Public, private, we're all children of this country, everyone will somehow contribute to the development of the economy.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0032par0156	But there's no private sector, there's a side sector.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0031par0157	But first of all, my dear friends, the private sector has begun to fill this area in private sectors, not in infrastructure investments around the world, but in areas we call the sectors of the economy, which are related to foreign trade, and it invests, it increases production, it increases export capacity, but it is also a serious loss in the public sector, especially because of a rapid withdrawal from the field of social infrastructure, such as education, health, and the private sector has begun to fill in this area, and the private sector has suffered serious loss in the production, in exporting, in the production of goods and services. On the other hand, it's also important that public fixed capital investments -- I've just given numbers -- are reduced because in an economy, the private sector also needs to pioneer the public sector in order for the economy to grow. There is no exclusion effect in the economy between public and private sector investments, a complementary effect. The public sector's investments, especially in physical infrastructure, social infrastructure, and a new area of technological infrastructure, also increase the potential for the development of the private sector, and move the potential growth rate of an economy to much higher levels. Dear friends, then... only, of course, when we said substructure, did we always limit it to physical and social infrastructure. Today, there is a technological infrastructure in economic literature that is just as important as they are. This means, dear friends, that an economy has to reach appropriate strategies, start investments in order for it to be able to skip classes, in another sense, to come up with a structure that can produce more value of goods and services. The private sector can't enter these areas, new areas, because it's based on its structure, it's pursuing profit-maximization. These areas also require large investments, risky areas. The public sector leads these areas, sometimes in itself, sometimes in the private sector, the transition to public-private sector co-operation creates entry strategies. So there will be a society of information in Turkey, in programs, in plans, in texts. Turkey will produce high added goods and services. It is not possible to write them, dear friends, because you are the government of Turkey today, but there is a serious weakness in this regard. In Turkey lately, there's been a slightly higher separation of the ARGE, especially with the TUBITAK hands, but other than that, there's no serious breakthrough, no serious leap in this area, dear friends. Unemployment is one of Turkey's most important problems. The numbers of unemployment, which cause us all to doubt when it comes to us. Think of an economy, if the economy goes into crisis, jobs go up, even if the economy gets bigger, jobs go up, there's a trend that goes up like this. Is that possible, dear friends?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0033par0160	In agriculture, also in agriculture.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0031par0161	It's the same thing in agriculture. In agriculture, you look, there's more and more population shift, on the one hand, you see, there's an increase in agriculture employment under the recent increase in employment. How come these are dear friends? It's not possible, but even though we've accepted them correctly, there's also a question mark, that unemployment rates are at 10 percent, dear friends, not below 10 percent. So 10% is a low unemployment rate for an economy, which is that Turkey's employment rates are less than 50%, dear friends. So 50 per cent of the working age population only joins the labor force. This is about 70 percent in all developed countries, friends, over 70 percent in some countries. I'll tell you the average OECD is 70 percent, 71 percent. So in a way, if we assume that the rate of participation in the labor force is going up from 50 percent, what if we think that's what's going to happen is that the unemployment rate in Turkey is going to reach 30 percent, 40 percent of the people who are not involved in this task force, and when you look under normal circumstances -- we've also been presented by TİK -- people who normally work, who want to work, who want to work, who don't want to, but who don't want to work because they don't have hope that they can get a job. And when we add these, the ratios are still substantially higher than 15 percent, up to 20 percent. Poverty has increased in Turkey, my friends. According to the figures of the TÜİKbook -- with those figures, it is not possible to live on those numbers of hunger limits and poverty limits -- one of the five people in Turkey is poor, dear friends. If I do, I want to say that budgets are important. Budgets are the mechanisms for an economy, a country's resources, public resources, government's resources, and how to redistribute them. It needs to be settled very carefully, and they need to be discussed in full detail in the House. All information and documents found in this area must be followed by their calendars. It's our greatest desire that this process develops in a much more participatory process, in a perspective. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0034par0167	Mr. Türeli, thank you. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Erkan Akçay, Manisa MP, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0035par0170	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the Bill of Law on Budget Law 312. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group and myself, I salute your esteemed delegation. This bill organises the adoption and processing of relevant laws on budget laws, which contain only continuity per year. As it is known, in budget laws, there should be a one-year interim arrangement of non-permanent issues that concern the budget of the year alone, while over the years, over 70 substances have been violated, and they have become customary. In 2002, the trilateral coalition government launched the work of withdrawing these substances to 15, of course, over the years, during the last year, some of them were reduced, but in 2012 it would now be half and half and probably down to 15 articles in the 2013 budget. When we look at the issues organised in general, the budget arrangement, the organisation of revenues and expense tables, the opening of new schemes, income and financing codes over the year, the provisions related to accounting and final account, the higher education institution, the organisation of donations, funding from domestic, foreign sources, and budgeting of grants, the purchase of official vehicles, and other ways related to procurement, use, and accession, and organisation of the costs for these costs. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to say that we, the National Movement Party, will vote on this bill. While voting positively for this bill, I would like to share with you some of my assessments, criticisms, and suggestions for the final work of the first year of the 24th century, as well as a general assessment of this year's 2013 budget. Honourable lawmakers were issued on September 26, 2011, and a amendment has been made to Article 17/17, Article 5018, Article 16 of the Law, and it has been announced that this amendment will be prepared by the end of May, by the end of the first week of September of the Central Vadeli Programme. Under Article 162 of the Constitution, the Council of Ministers must submit the report showing the central management budget bill and national budget estimates to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey at least seventy-five days before fiscal Christmas. When Article 17 of the Constitution and Article 5018 are considered together, all institutions have one month to prepare the central management budget. It is absolutely impossible for all institutions to make the budget healthy within a month. Each institution will have to use its average exchange rate, inflation, growth rate, in the economic size of the Central Financial Plan to draft the budget. After negotiating this budget with the Development Ministry and the Finance Ministry, he will draw up his final budget. It's absolutely impossible for all of these procedures to be done within a month. The government has practically sabotaged the budget process with a amendment to the amendment to this ruling by shutting down the Supreme Assembly. There is a process of drafting a budget away from any plan or program. Then the government has to index taxes to an automatic increase to meet its budget targets. As a matter of fact, there are also automatic tax hikes, such as new taxes -- additional taxes -- in addition to the set of bag laws. Of course, the government is also interested in temporary tax collections and temporary budget revenues. With privatisation revenues, budget deficits are being tried to be closed, and with amnesty laws, the sense of justice is being undermined. Dear lawmakers, we are now discussing the 2012 budget for political, economic and social problems that are becoming more chronic, and the draft of the 2013 budget, and unfortunately today, Turkey's peace and well-being, its self-esteem, its pride, and its hope for the future are being destroyed. The streets are angry, the people are weary. In some parts of our country, government authority has weakened. What fundamental problem of the country's economy has been solved during nine and a half years of AKP power? Unfortunately, we do not get a sufficient and satisfying answer. All problems with production, unemployment, foreign trade deficits, current deficits, poverty, unfair structures and growth in income distribution, and many of them continue to increase. The Turkish people are in the middle of debt and despair. Since 2003, the economy has been unproductive by the policies of power. The economy is dominated by the problems of low production. Thus, the Justice and Development Party's economic understanding, the consumption instead of production, imports instead of exports, unemployment instead of employment, monopoly instead of competition, and debt instead of saving. Industrialist, farmer, tradesman, worker, officer, everyone is short on debt. He pays most of what he earns as interest, new investments can't be made, and savings can't be made, and it's going down. The household's share in the household's income is increasing day by day, and as of now, it is up to 40 per cent. Again, savings rates are dropping as of every year. What this means is, valuable lawmakers, we can't produce enough and we can't sell enough. Why can't we make it? Because the input costs are high, the appropriate investment environment is still uninvented, investments are not attractive, and unfortunately it's still attractive to make money out of efficiency and money. The Moderate Time Program is a reflection of the government's ninth development plan, which it has started with. The growth rate for 2011 was 4.5 per cent in last year's Central Future Program. Now there was a 7.5 per cent deviation and shortsightedness in the medium-term program. Last year, five percent growth was envisioned for 2012. During 2012, 4 per cent growth was predicted by revised figures. Every time the Midterm Program is announced, we don't see any distant connection or connection with the previous Central Future Program. The government has set a goal for this period, but for reasons such as these, it must make a statement. Unfortunately, we don't see any assessments of it in favor or against the programs. The projections of a document, a budget or programme that does not discuss whether their previous programmes and budgets have been met, are far from serious. These documents are being drawn up as if this government doesn't own the previous program. We invite the government to take this seriously. In the past, when targets deviated, governments explained to society why there was a deviation, to the public, to the community, to what factors would be effective in these deviations, and to the next term, it would be called accounting and questioning. The documents of that time are in our libraries. The aim of the medium-term programme was to maintain growth, reduce the current deficit of operations, and thus maintain macroeconomic and financial stability. The most important thing that is missing from the perspective of the medium-term program is production, dear friends. Turkey's most fundamental economic problem is that it cannot produce enough and consume more than it produces. Since domestic production is unable to compete with foreign production, foreign trade deficits are also taking over. Again, it was said by the government that interest rates remained low as of 2010 and 2011, and that this would continue as of 2012 and 2013. But real interest is high on international interest, and there's still a hot entry from the outside. Again, policies aimed at reducing waste in public and private areas are expressed in budgets and programmes. But where is the waste, how is it? The government has made a determination and has not implemented a policy. Again, it is said that the public spending policy will address the social welfare system as a whole and that repeated benefits will be prevented. So there are repeated benefits in the welfare of the state. This has been expressed as a confession, and for years, no action has been taken in this regard, even though he has said that he will address the social welfare system in a whole and restructure it. Dear lawmakers, by the end of 2002 and 2010, economic development in Turkey is a clear 31 per cent increase in national income per person. So in this period, at $4,225 per person in 2002, national income has been raised by the power to $5,570 at fixed prices. This is information that will be seen very clearly in the sources of the State Planning Agency, the Ministry of Development, and on the 16th page of the 2012 Programme. If the previous rulings had performed like the AKP, if Turkey had made 31 per cent progress every eight years, the point of personal enrichment and permutation in this period of time would have been based on the income per million dollars per million in 1923, the AKP's power would have taken over a national income level of only $530 per person in 2002, not $4,225 per person. So we're saying that the previous performances are both high, and we're saying that this period is not well-appreciated. Taking into account this time, the 1929 Depression, the Second World War, the coups, the revolutions, despite all absences, Turkey's economy has improved much faster. On the other hand, when we look at other indicators, we see the same thing. We see that we are ranked in the 92nd place in the individual development index, and we are ranked in the 126th place in terms of education from our twenty-five-year-old population. So, when we look at Turkey's general indicators, we're afraid that there is no painting that is what is said today. It is said that no matter what reason you give, no matter what reality you put in front of us, Turkey's basic indicators are solid. In that sense, I want to tell you where these basic indicators are sitting and how reliable they are. These indicators are such as growth rate, employment rate, inflation rate, budget equivalence, austerity and the structure and direction of debt. We see that all of these indicators are based on a very large current deficit, and if we look at it this way, you'll suddenly see how confused the indicators that look solid today or yesterday are. First, it's a growth rate. When we call it growth, three sizes need to be observed together. One of them is consumption and growth. When there's consumption, investment needs to be invested, and production needs to be increased. The consumption you encounter when you don't increase consumption and invest in it is consumption with the production of other countries when you don't increase production. So you have growth, no production growth, just the picture of Turkey. The economy is tried to grow by importing, importing with someone else's money, so it's almost like a hand money wedding, and consumers without money are being loaned to imports. So we're dealing with an import, debt-related consumption and a government that takes tax and still holds the volume of indirect taxes by watching it. This structure also leads our country to a very unhealthy and inefficient foreign trade structure. In 2002, we see that the share of high-tech products, which are 4.7 per cent of our exports, fell to 2.2 in 2010 and 1.9 in 2011. We're dealing with an export structure that's been downgraded. Another point is employment. The fact that employment appears to be increasing with annual fluctuating growth figures may seem to change the view of employment on numbers in Turkey, but it does not improve the quality of employment, unfortunately. In the 2008-2009 crisis, 1,300,000 of our people were unemployed. 870,000 of them joined the unemployed army from the top of the counter, from the production structure of the industry. In the following years, the number of jobs that we call employment was in the construction industry, in the service sector, and was largely shown in the agriculture sector. These are signs and indicators of the decline of quality in employment. Let's remember, for example, that in 2009, in 2010 in Ankara, there were a lot of people who wanted to work outside, much less than the wages you didn't agree with. Again, when the workers, the workers, the officer, are asked to be given more than the budget, our economy is going well. Again, despite all the growth they say, we will return to Greece. As a happy and respected member of the community, we believe that instead of receiving the constitutional right to work, the issue of consent to work with too much income to die is a subject that should be kept above any political debate. And I'd like to touch down on a couple of things about inflation. One of them was that in the period when inflation was called low, in the administration of this government, inflation rates in Turkey never occurred as the proportions the government declared and predicted. Over 100 years, more than 100 percent of the years, and even the three-and-a-half years of coalition before the current government have been more successful in inflation than the nine-and-a-half years of current power. It was presented as a fall in inflation success, and it was ruled out that it was an improvement with low currency, with cheap imports, and was tried to be proud of it. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0036par0201	Mr. Akçay, thank you. The entire bill is not required to speak on behalf of groups and on behalf of individuals. We don't have any friends in the system for 20 minutes of QA. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, we will now begin the negotiations of section one. The first chapter is composed of 1 to 10th articles. Anybody want a word on chapter one? No. Question-answer? No. Since there are no motions, I submit the first item in chapter one to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 6th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The vote on the first section's articles is complete. Now, anyone want to talk about chapter two? No. A friend of ours stepped in for the question, question-answer. Mr. Iron, please.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0037par0224	Thank you, Mr. President. While I'm here, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you a question: Law 6191, adopted on 10 March 2011, and Article No. 926 of Turkish Armed Forces personnel have been added to Article 32. For the use of this clause, it is said that from March 12, 1971, the release of this Law until the date of its release, has been cut off from the Turkish Armed Forces by closed administrative proceedings or by AGE decisions. As it is known, students of the military school are members of the Turkish Armed Forces Act No. 926, Article 1, 2, 6, 8 and 211, Article 1 and 92; Article 1632, Article 3; Article 353, Article 10 of the Military Courts Act, and members of the Turkish Armed Forces. Despite the open laws of the relevant laws, why were no Turkish Armed Forces cadets taken advantage of by the law? Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0038par0231	Mr. President, lawmakers have been given a right by law to those who have been cut off from the Armed Forces by Law 6191, High Military Surah, and by closed judicial procedures during martial law. There are no students within the scope of this law, but our Congressman says that students are also members of the Turkish Armed Forces Staff Act, such as the Turkish Armed Forces Act, etc., and so on. They should have been included in that scope. The evaluation of our friends does not include this coverage because the students did not write, but in some way, let's assume that students are part of the Law, and we decided otherwise. All actions and procedures of the administration are subject to judicial supervision. One of the students we rejected, well, he could go to the Military Supreme Court. Therefore, the authority to interpret the Law in the most accurate, healthier way belongs to the courts. I'm saying that if the court decides otherwise, we'll carry out that court order, and we'll carry out its judgments.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0039par0232	Two more of our friends are in the system. Mr. Erdoğdu...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0040par0234	Mr. Secretary, there is a rumor in international media today that software from a Syrian plane that has been hijacked to Jordan has been tested by our plane that was dropped on a Turkish plane. Another rumor is that Abdullah Ocalan is not in the prison where he is currently in prison, in order to clarify his public opinion. Do you have any information on that? Can you shed some light on that in terms of debriefing information? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0041par0237	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0042par0239	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to share a matter with the House to get the attention of all lawmakers. Right now, the Ministry of Agriculture, in the form of 30x6, 30x5, is giving breeding heifers to our villages, villages of different provinces. Currently, the cow prices are between $3,500 and 4,000 in the market, but the ministry is making such a tender that it lends it to the Agriculture Bank at a price of 6,700, 6,150, 6,500. A contractor based on an address is giving this contract. For example, he gives 30x6 cows to a village, which is worth $1 billion,215. If he gave that money to that co-op, he could get 300 heifers, but if he gets it through his car, he gets 180 head of cattle. He's facing 100 percent interest before the animals even enter his house. I'm drawing the attention of the legislators in Congress. The manufacturers must be warned, the Ministry of Agriculture must be warned, the address-based tender system must be terminated, the village must be supported. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0043par0242	Mr. Korkmaz...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0044par0243	Thank you, Mr. President. Complaints are pouring in about closing the courthouses. I brought up the problem with our courts that were closed in Isparta. Before noon, the mayor of Burdur Cry and the mayors of all parties visited the districts, demanding that closed courts be opened, and they say: "There are hundreds of tourists coming to the city of Sagalassos in crying every day. In addition, they have a prison, notary, executive directorate in their districts, a university of applied sciences with 1,200 students. It's very heavy in winter, and we have villages 50 miles away. Is it the lack of file numbers or the comfort of living in peace that's our problem? Please open this court. And I'm gonna pass it on to you, and I'm gonna have to ask you to open these courthouses. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0045par0247	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0046par0249	Thank you, Mayor. We know about the improvement of officers in our Turkish Armed Forces. But is there any improvement to the petty officer, the other privates and privates? Especially this chasm... do you have any preparation for healing these petty officers and subsidiaries... carrying the same weapons as you do on the same mission? My second question -- I asked you yesterday -- but since you're interested -- there's a rumor in Turkey about these national security decisions, the friends who were discharged from the military, the ones who were expelled from the military: there's a rumor that they've been applied to friends who've been thrown out of the military, and they haven't been applied to others. How true is that? How many people have come back? Explain the reasons and reasons for those who don't return. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0047par0253	Thank you, Mr. Yellowhead. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0048par0255	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister as a member of the government: there's a very important group that's carrying the burden of this state, public defenders. There must be a study for public defenders. I mean, prosecutors and judges have special places in Turkey. Public defenders, on the other hand, are lawyers who have been in and out of the state's high-profile cases. There's been no process of correcting their self-existence status. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask the government if they're preparing for this. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0049par0258	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0050par0260	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. Nevzat Korkmaz, thank you. He acted as a trustee in our province, and considered his cry. Cry in our Burdur province and the courts of our Cavir counties are closing. As he actually says, Sagalasso is a historical city in the world; he hosts tourism with amphitheatres, home to pensioners. Again, in the same way, our Cavir district is home to pensioners as well as our districts, which are branded in agriculture and livestock. It's like we're giving the car away; it's got gear, it's got rubber, it's got tires, it's got wheels, but it's got no steering wheel; we're moving the courthouse in our districts, we're delivering a car without a steering wheel. We want this steering wheel. This wheel also looks good on crying, and it looks good on Cavirdur, and it looks good on many districts of Turkey. This issue is ineffective in Turkey. At once, the Council of Ministers says that they must reassess those courts that have been closed and edited over the HSYK.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0051par0263	Thank you. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0052par0265	Thank you, Mr. President. The courts of Dalaman and Ula districts have been closed in Muğla province. Dalaman is one of the few districts in Turkey that have international airports. Again, our Ula County is a very old, very large-scale county. The closure of the courthouse in these counties has made our citizens very upset, and they need to be compensated quickly. The last place a state can save money is justice. If this government has come to the point of saving justice, then, in our childhood, there were 571 districts in Turkey, let's take the number of districts back to 571, let's sell government mansions in those newly built districts, skim houses, public housing, government revenues. There's no such disrespect to society. No one has the right to take justice from people. The government must quickly review this attitude and open the courts. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0053par0268	Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0054par0269	Thank you. Mr. President, we have a problem with these closed courts as Antalya. It's been decided that the sunrise courthouse will be closed. This is one of the furthest parts of Antalya, and it is one of our poorest districts. What a remarkable, unbearable event it is when a man in the sunrise goes to Alania (Akseki) or to Akseki (Akseki). Please, we ask the Minister and the government, to open the court of Gündoğmü, or it will be a waste to all of our people there. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0055par0272	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0056par0274	Thank you, Mr. President. The Department of Justice's closing of these courts has been a principle in the history of the republic, and in one of our districts in the Black Sea District, an act of shutdown was carried out in the district of Erfelek. These actions we are accustomed to in the East and Southeast are a serious warning to the Black Sea, where the government is taking Turkey. I'm asking the ministers, why did you shut down these courthouses? What criteria did you open 44 courthouses to after closing? Do the ministers have election districts in these criteria? Do HSYK members have election districts, do they have homelands? To be more specific, when are you going to stop this disgrace? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0057par0278	Thank you. Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0058par0280	Mr. President, Congressmans, of course, first of all, it would be a clean language for our representatives. This charter...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0059par0281	What do you mean? It's a disgrace! What's the big deal?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0058par0282	Look, look, it's rude, just a minute, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0059par0283	It's a disgrace, it's a disgrace!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0058par0284	Look, I don't think it's appropriate. I can't say anything if you're making it up to yourself, but I can't make it up to you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0060par0285	Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0059par0286	You're welcome! None of your business!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0061par0287	Mr. Altay, please...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0060par0288	Listen, brother, listen! The minister is answering questions.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0059par0289	What's the matter with you? None of your business!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0060par0290	Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0059par0291	None of your business!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0062par0292	Please, friends... Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0294	Of the closed courts, he said, "Does the Minister have an election perimeter?" Everybody go look at the website. And the twin of the Rize, and the male of the two, are they shut down? Hayati Bey's, Minister's district, is that correct? In Tripoli, there are four of them -- there are four of them -- in Hamzacebi the Akif. Is it true? It was seven, three of them opened, four closed.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0064par0295	So I stepped in, took down three.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0296	So if you interfered... here, let's say your friend interfered, but know that I'm from Sivas, and three of Sivas. So there's no substitute for what you're saying. That's the first thing.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0065par0297	How many have been opened?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0298	Not a single one of them opened.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0066par0299	What's the motive? What's the reason for closing?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0300	Another thing I'm saying is, let him cry.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0066par0301	You mean it's all up to you?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0302	You're not here to listen, you're just here to talk.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0067par0303	Oh, Mr. Secretary... but no...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0304	Look, I listen when you talk. No, I'm listening when you're talking, but when I'm talking, you need to listen.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0068par0306	What do you mean you're just here to talk? Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0307	If you don't listen when I do, then you don't have to listen. The point of this is to ask questions and get answers. You have no intention of getting an answer. You need to listen when I explain. If there's something we're missing, then there's a flaw in this, so please complete it. I expect you to tell me.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0069par0308	We say it, we say it, Minister, for reasons.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0309	He weeps in a beautiful ancient city, such as Sagalassos, which is on UNESCO's cultural heritage list, and besides that, he lives in the city of Hasan Hussein, my fellow resident. I'd like him to cry, and I'd like his court to open. He's seen crying... a place, and it's really one of the best places in Turkey, but they've come up with some sort of universal criteria. These criteria have also been applied to Tripoli, and applied to Rize, and applied to Sivas.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0070par0310	What's changed in a week, Mr. Secretary? What changed in a week?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0071par0311	Minister, there are 2,000 people... 2,000 people...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0312	Look, in a situation called "Why did it open?" Look, I know one, Kamaliye. Kamaliye Erzincan is the furthest place, and the road is very bad, it's a two-hour drive, it's a mercy! Kemaliye, who saw Kemaliye, look, it's not about my district, it's not about Sivas.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0072par0313	How will the people of the island arrive, Minister, from the island?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0314	If you don't want to listen to what I'm saying, I won't say anything. It's not just those who were thrown out of the conflict about 6191, but everyone who came in was thrown out. Rahmi Yıldırım is the president of the association, and if anyone knows him, he will tell the truth very clearly, and he has thanked me personally for it. There's no such discrimination in our ministry, the law is general, it's not subject to individuals. Besides, our administration's actions are subject to judicial supervision. Anyone can go to trial. We're doing a study to improve the finances of the petty officers, and hopefully when it's done, we'll see about that, and what's the status of our petty officers... Another deputy of ours used a phrase that said: "Here, the budget is the most important right of parliaments. This budget has increased its share of personnel. The deputy has increased the amount, but the rate has dropped. I just want to say that's not true either. Believe me, if we try to right every wrong here, we won't have time to say anything else. Someone told me the other day that Turkey owed $16 billion to the IMF in 2002. It's not true. We're saying it's not true. Now he says: "Is there an increase in GDP in 2002 in 6.3? 2012?" 7.1. Is it up? It's up. So that statement is not true. So, what did we do? We've moved the savings from interest to personnel and social expenses. In 2002, the amount of interest in the budget was 43 per cent, while in 2012, the share in the budget fell to 14 per cent. Therefore, the difference was given to our citizens as a right, an opportunity. Another thing: the MiG plane from Syria has arrived and its software has been transferred to our plane. How many times do we have to say this? It's not true. A hundred times it's not true for us. We expect our word to be enough for all of us, but believe me, whoever writes it is believed, but it needs to be proved. No, that's what he says. It's definitely not right. So far, information given to our nation by our Armed Forces or by our State Department or by our Ministry of National Defense is true. There is absolutely no error in this truth. Anyone who proves otherwise will bring it here and say it. It doesn't exist, it's fiction.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0073par0322	Oh, Mr. Secretary, we said it in terms of debriefing information. What's that all about? In terms of debriefing information...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0323	See, that's your style, that's my style. So do men see, and your speech, and my speech?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0073par0324	Look, you're the Minister, I asked you nicely.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0063par0325	After my speech was finished, Mr. Secretary, we asked to learn, and you said that. But we see that it's not for learning, it's for speaking purposes only. I salute your high council, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0074par0327	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0075par0328	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement according to Article 60. Turn on the mike, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0076par0329	I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0074par0330	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0075par0333	Thank you, Mr. President. We're getting complaints from a lot of lawmakers about the closing courts, whether they belong to the ruling party or the opposition parties. First, the government's decision to close the courthouse around 144 cost public opinion, and then it was announced to the public that around 44 courthouses had been waived due to reactions. Now, Mr. Secretary is making a statement to the Minister about the criticism of our friends. Our friends are naturally reacting because if there are three fundamental organs of the state, if we express them as legislation, execution, judgment, and we control the state's presence in the provinces and provinces in this framework, if we look at this entity, we'll see that the judiciary is in all districts. In the past, some courts have been closed due to lack of trial numbers, and now, for similar reasons, some courts have been closed again. However, since the government has set an objective measure, why has 144 been brought down to 102, and what measures have been used here? We have no assessment of these measurements as objective, we have no knowledge. As Deputy President of the Republican People's Party Group, I believe the government is not using an objective measure here. According to the effects, according to demands, the government has taken a different position here according to the pressures. Now, I don't think it's right for our friends to take a different look at the reaction that the Minister has shown by seeing it. Now, our friend, Mr. Engin Altay, used the word "kepaze," so I opened the Turkish Language Foundation dictionary, and I looked up what it means: unqualified, unqualified.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0077par0337	Akif Hamzacebi, I don't know what you mean. I really don't. Look, you've got so much red tape, so much political history. I don't think it's appropriate for you to find the answer to such a word from there, from the dictionary...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0078par0339	The Prime Minister said something similar in the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0075par0340	Mr. President, I haven't been able to complete my promise.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0079par0341	Sure, go ahead, open it.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0078par0342	Didn't the Prime Minister say anything like that to the Minister of Justice in the Council of Ministers, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0079par0343	Mr. Altay, if you please...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0080par0344	How do you answer without finishing? Let's see what he has to say after that.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0079par0345	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0081par0346	Thank you. Now, I want to say this. Mr. Secretary made a statement before I was finished. I would like to say that our friends need to react because of the closing courts, the power, the ministers, to meet with great maturity. So I'm saying that the style used here is not a personal form for them, but because of the closing courts, as representatives of the public, they've demonstrated this reaction. It is the government that is grasping, embracing, and always having power. Governments, ministers always adjust and control the blood pressure of this General Assembly. Mr. ministers, if they are not insightful, embracing, reacting immediately to their criticism, the debates in the General Assembly will be much bigger. My intention is that Mr. Altay did not make any assessment of you with the word Kepaze. That's what I want to say. A reaction to this event is expressed. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0082par0351	That word doesn't fit here, it doesn't suit the gym.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0083par0352	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. [[Continue]] We're going to vote on the articles of the second section.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0084par0359	Mr. President, we'd like a word.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0085par0360	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0083par0361	There is no motion on the 11th article. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0085par0363	So we'd like to express our views as the National Movement Party Group on this one, but according to 60, sir.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0083par0364	Here you go, Mr. Chancer.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0085par0367	Mr. President, thank you. Madam Secretary, please don't be offended by the questioning of your decisions that are truly a social response. Because people come here with corporate identities, they come to Ankara, and we, lawmakers, have to give you their demands. Now, you're closing the courthouses. Whatever your motive, it's none of society's business. If one of the basic services you have to offer him as a government is justice, you have no right to tell him to go to another city and look for him there. Two, you shut down the municipalities last year, which you say you're thinking of closing again. You're shutting down the military departments. So as the government, as the government responsible for bringing services to society, you need to explain to this nation the right reason for shutting down the institutions of the state. And as the National Movement Party Group, I'm really having a hard time understanding your attitude. You need to clarify that. So the reason you've developed for Kemaliye is also true for crying, Mr. Secretary. People, believe me, they're walking from Çankaya to Kızılay. They're counting on two liras. So if you're a state and you're a powerful government, if you're a strong Turkey, you shouldn't close the courts... Closing the courthouse is as heavy a decision as closing the hospital. We'd like you to reconsider. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0086par0373	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0087par0376	Mr. Secretary, I'm truly sorry to hear what you've said to us.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0088par0377	What word?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0087par0378	You don't know how to listen, you know how to speak. This is an attack on our group. We know how to listen and we know how to talk. But I truly express my sorrows. Two, why did you turn it off? In a unitary state structure, the courthouse is an institution that distributes justice everywhere, and it must never be closed. But why were 146 courthouses closed, and why? I want the answer to every courthouse, why 146 courthouses have been closed. So we shut it down, there were few files... But second of all, why did 44 courthouses open, why did they open? You must give us the answer. We don't say don't open it. We're proud of the opening, but why not the other one, and why not all of them? Where's the justice in that? It has to be fair. We have doubts about justice, your scales of justice, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0089par0381	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0090par0382	Why did you back down, Minister?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0089par0383	Madam Secretary, please give me a quick answer.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0091par0385	Thank you for the language of Mr. Shandır. We're open to criticism. In a manner of speaking, like Mr. Shandir, everyone should speak as much as they please, amenna...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0092par0386	Mr. Shandır is not an example to us, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0091par0387	But we didn't think of this place as the last conversation. We don't fit in here. I don't think he's right for himself either. And after that, I made it clear that one of our most valuable politicians, one of us from the old bureaucracy, had to go to a dictionary to explain it, and I couldn't put it together at all. The question we were asked was: "Is there a place where there is a minister and the courts are closed?" Is that the question? That's right. Reaction, look, it's the same, I'm very clear. I've closed the military branch in Sivasta Kollhisar, my mayor has resigned. I'm being very clear. I'm from Sivas. My district president, I shut down Kohlhisar, he resigned. I'm singing about the courts that were closed in Sivas. He said, "Is there anyone who has a minister who has been shut down?" There's nothing wrong with what I said. I counted Tripoli. Akif Hamzacebi is here. Is it closed? There's four of them. Rize, the land of Hayati Bey, is it closed? I do. Sivas, is it closed? I do. That's what I'm saying. I'd like to see none of it shut down. I'd like to...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0093par0389	Then why did you open 44?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0091par0390	The Minister of Justice will give you the reason for this very clearly, to consult and consult with the HSYK. That's it.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0094par0391	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0095par0392	Mr. President, a correction, very short.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0094par0394	Please...
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0095par0395	I'm gonna ask you!
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0094par0396	Mr. Altay, please. Please, over here. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0095par0397	Mr. President, I didn't say the word "kepaze" to the Ministers, to the Council of Ministers. I said, "The work that's been done is a disgrace." And I stand by my word.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0094par0398	Yes, sir, go ahead. He's on hold. [[Continue]] Sir, there are no motions on the 12th article. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There is no motion on the 13th article. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I present the result of an open vote on whether certain provisions in the Budget Laws should be added to the provisions concerned by the Law and by the Law. ▪ Number of votes used: 251 [[x]] Özlem Yemisçi Mine Leuk White (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. The bill is legalized. Good luck with that. We are starting talks with Health, Family, and Social Affairs Commission Report. Commission? No. It's been postponed. The 7th ranking of Milliyetian Movement Party Deputy Minister Mehmet Şandır; 2004 Member of the Executive and Development Party's Law Proposal for Amendments in Some Articles of the Law; Peace and Democracy Group Group Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan's Law on Postponing Crimes and Postponing Punishments; Turkish Penal Code on Special Life and Secret Areas of Life Amendments in the Law; 2004 Vice President Mehmet Şandır; 2004 Vice President of the People's Party's Party's Party's Law on Charges; 5th Amendment to Charges Against Charges; 5th Amendments Against Charges of Peace and Democracy Group Group Group Group Chairs's Law on Charge; 5th Amendment to Special Life and Secret Areas of Life; 5th Amendments of Human Rights; 2nd Amendments of Peace and Human Rights of Human Rights; 5th Amendments on Charge; 2nd Amendments of Peace and 5th Amendments under the Peace and Laws of Humanity of Humanity of Public Law; 5th Amendment of the European Laws; 5th Amendment; 2th Amendment of the Turkish Criminals Council; 2th Amendments and 5th Amendment; 2th Amendments and 5th Amendments and 5th Amendment; The Security Committee of the European Council of the European Council of the Turkish Criminals of the European Committee; 2th Amendment (S) Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyztan-Turkey Manas between the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyztan-Turkey. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with 155 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE PROGRESS OF CONTINUATION OF CONTINUE OF THE CONTINUE OF CONTINUE OF CONTINUATION OF THE CONTROL OF THE COMMUNITY OF TOURCY REPLICTION OF REPUBLICATION MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was approved on 26 April 2011 in Ankara, with the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic of Kırgyzistan-Turkey Manas University of Manas. I submit to you the first article of the bill: those who accept... those who refuse... the first article is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you two minutes to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kyrgyztan-Turkey Manas University, that it is appropriate to ratify the Perpetual Agreement: (x) 155 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. ▪ The number of votes used: 200 [[x]] Özlem Yemisçi Mine Leuk White The bill is legalized. Good luck with that. We will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gabon between the Military Field Education, Technical and Scientific Union Framework Agreement, which is in the 9th place, and the Foreign Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 289 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AGENTIAL REPUBLICATION OF TURKEY COMMUNITY REPLICATION PRODUCTION PRODUCTION TO ACTIVITY, TECHNICS AND BICS The approval of the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gabon between the Military Field Education, Technical and Scientific Business Association Framework Agreement was approved on 1- (1) 25/3/2011. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Gabon that the Agreement on Military Field Education, Technical and Scientific Business Association Framework is appropriate: (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 289 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. ▪ Number of votes used: 229 [[x]] Özlem Yemisçi Mine Leuk White The bill is legal. Good luck. We will now begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Government of Transition and the Foreign Commission Reports on the Approval of Co-operation on the Education and Capacity of Libyan National Police. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by 250 rows. Sinan Oğan, MP of the National Movement Party, wants to speak on the whole bill. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0096par0510	Honourable President, esteemed lawmakers; of course, many international agreements are tried to be passed through the House on such days, but we see that in Libya, police training, police chief training and militia training agreements have been tried to be included. Mr. President, will you keep the peace, sir?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0094par0512	Yes, if we can keep the peace, we can understand the preacher better, my dear friends. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0096par0514	Dear friends, are you aware of the content of the deal that came our way?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0097par0515	They're not, sir, they're not. Now they'll know.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0096par0516	You're not aware, and if you were, you wouldn't say yes to the Militia Training Program. Are you saying yes, what is Libyan and what is not known is that people are brought to Turkey and trained by Turkey's means? (AK PARTY desks we say yes.) You say yes. Isn't that what you're saying? So you can bring in the terrorists and train them here. [[What does the AK PARTY have to do with it?]] Dear friends, this is the sad state of the AKP's situation. Whatever comes, you say yes. Dear friends, with this agreement, we can come to the brink of a war tomorrow with Syria, which brought down our plane, and we can face a similar situation there. So we need to know what we signed. This agreement is highly ill-advised. This agreement is a deal that could get Turkey into trouble in the future. We need to know that a country fighting terrorism officially trained terrorists in this agreement, dear friends. So the deal that comes up is not just a police training agreement, but a militia training agreement. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 250 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Do you know that even the PKK's terrorist organization is referred to in some countries today? What would you say if tomorrow another country made the same deal, another country took PKK terrorists, trained them under militia training?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0098par0523	They don't say anything.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0096par0524	You won't say anything. That's right, they won't say anything, because you've come to that point. Dear friends, please read what this is. Even if you don't look at the content of each passing agreement, I specifically ask you, look at the content of this agreement. This agreement is an agreement that will put Turkey into trouble in the future. So, of course, we'll call this agreement, which will cause the country trouble -- even if a general coalition has been established -- on international agreements -- no. My humble advice to you is to call this agreement, which will put Turkey in distress, "No." Of course, deals are renewed, we can make a police deal with Libya, we've done it before in Afghanistan, we've done it somewhere else, but we've never had a militia training agreement with any country. Militia, some say, is a militia, some say a terrorist. Thus, the same tribulation may happen to us tomorrow. And let's not forget that your departure from the Ottoman Empire, the 100th anniversary of independence according to Libya, has recently been celebrated by the participation of Italian, French prime ministers. Celebrated against whom? Turkey has been congratulated on it. And you're putting up with it. You have slaughtered and endured nine of our Israeli citizens; you have dropped our Syrian plane, you have endured; America has put a sack on our heads, you have endured; and now you are willing to let Italy, France, leave the Ottoman Empire, celebrate the 100th anniversary of the break. You've put up with all of this, but we don't want the terrorist training treaty to pass through this great Parliament, and we're transferring you to our nation and to God. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0099par0529	Thank you. There will be an explanation for our President of the Foreign Commission, Mr. Lawmakers. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0100par0532	Mr. President, I'd like to bring to you a statement regarding the testimony of Reverend Oğan, who is speaking on behalf of the MHP Group. This issue was not brought up by Reverend Oğan when the Foreign Affairs Commission discussed it. However, the representatives of the government, who were there, also responded very fully to the criticism of the use of the notice in the education programme, which was discussed in a very intensive manner, in addition to the understanding session, have responded very strongly, and there is a fact that the declaration was met here as a candidate for the Libyan police in Libya, meaning that its official adjective means "young people," and that it has a non-registered coverage of what it calls for in Libya.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0101par0534	What kind of Turkish do you have? You couldn't tell him he was a candidate for the police?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0100par0535	...it has been made clear by representatives of the government that the training for the members of this declaration is an education for the candidates, and it has been agreed to submit this agreement to the approval of the Supreme Assembly. For your information.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0102par0538	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0103par0539	Then why didn't you say "police candidate"? You guys don't know what that means?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0104par0540	Is there any in writing for the mile?
tbmm-2012-06-29sit02spe0102par0541	Congressmans, there are no further demands on the entire bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. THE CONTACT OF CONTACT OF CONTROLITY WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TOURCY AND THE REPLICATION OF THE REPLICATION OF THE UNIFORMAL POLICY OF LYBIA AND THE PRODUCTION OF CONTINUATION OF CONTROLATION OF CONTROLATION IN THE DOOR MADDE 1- (1) was approved on April 2, 2012 in Tripoli, with the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Libyan Government of the National Police for Education and Development of Capacity of the Libyan National Police. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I submit the conclusion of a clear vote on the adoption of the Law Bill on the Co-operation of Libyan National Police between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Libyan Transition Government on the Education and Capacity of the Libyan National Police: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 203 [[x]] Mine Leuk White Özlem Yemisçi The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan between the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Azerbaijan and the Foreign Commission's Charter on the Encounter Pipeline Development of Transition from the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Republic of Azerbaijan. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The report was printed and distributed by 299 rows of numbers. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Azerbaijan Republic are seeking to ensure that the government of the Republic of Turkey's Republic of Turkey's Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic of the Republic of Turkey have been defeated by the United States. MADDE 1- (1) was approved on December 24, 2011 in Ankara by the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan Republic of Azerbaijan and the Transit Natural Gas Passing through the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Memorandum for the Development of the Transcendent Pipeline over the Lands of the Republic of Turkey. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the form of the open vote is done by electronic device: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you one minute to vote. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, Congressmans, I present the conclusion of a clear vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan Republic of Azerbaijan and the Open Bill of the Covenant for the Enhancing of Transital Gas on the Lands of the Republic of Turkey: (x) 299 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. ▪ Number of votes used: 214 [[x]] Mine Leuk White Özlem Yemisçi The bill is legal. Good luck. Members of parliament, we will begin negotiations between the Turkish Republic's Government and the Government of Iran's Islamic Republic between Turkey and Iran's Government on the opening of the New Black Border Doors in Iran. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We are starting talks with the European Community for the Participation of the European Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, ranked 13th, and with the European Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, that Approvement of Agreement Between the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey is appropriate. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 16 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. It's been a long time since we've been in the country, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives, and we've been in the middle of our lives. Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Turkey on the Participant of the Republic of Turkey has been approved by the European Union and the Turkish Republic on October 30, 2007. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 16 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Sustained. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll start the vote with the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I submit the open vote for the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addictation, in which Agreement between the European Community of Turkey and the Republic of Turkey have been ratified: ▪ Number of votes used : 232 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. Now, we begin talks with the Court's Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, ranked 14th between the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, that Agreement on Border Restriction in the Mediterranean is in order. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 114 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I hereby submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's about the right to understand that the invasion of the KITA scene in the Mediterranean has been established in the history of Northern Cyprus Republic with the Republic of Turkey. PROGRESSING TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE AUDIENCE MADDE 1- (1) was approved on September 21, 2011 in New York, with the approval of the Agreement on Bordering in the Mediterranean between the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 114 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: Those who don't agree... Sustained. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus for ratification of the Agreement on Border Restriction in the Mediterranean: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 235 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi The bill has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. Members of the law, we will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which ranked 15th in line with the Law Charter for the Changes of the 1992 Protocol on Legal Responsibility of the 1969 Petroleum Pollution, which changed the International Charter on Legal Responsibility. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 129 rows of numbers. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. It's about changing the policy of the 1992 PRROTOC, which has changed the way we're supposed to deal with the laws of the country, because of its 1969 PETROL Kiring. MADDE 1- (1) was adopted on October 18, 2000, and it was appropriate for us to participate in the Restriction of the 1992 Protocol, which changed the Legal Responsibility of the International Responsibility of Oil Pollution. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 129 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the technical provisions of this contract. I submit the item to your votes: Those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these laws. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I submit the conclusion of the open vote on whether it is appropriate for us to participate in the amendments to the 1992 Protocol on Legal Responsibility of the 1969 Oil Pollution: ▪ Number of votes used : 242 [[x]] Özlem Yemisçi Mine Leuk White The bill has been adopted and legalized. Good luck with that. Members of the law, we will begin negotiations with the Environmental Commission and Foreign Commission Reports, which ranked 16th and changed the 1992 Protocol on the Establishment of an International Fund for the Compensation of the 1971 Oil Pollution Damage. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 134 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 134 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. It's about the fact that we've been able to change the way we've been treated with the establishment of a national event for the establishment of the 1971 Pentrol Kira, and that we've been able to stay on track for the sake of the fact that we've been able to change the way we've been treated. MADDE 1-1-1 (1) was adopted on October 18, 2000, and it was agreed that we should agree on the amendments to the 1992 Reparations Limits Protocol, which changed an International Fund for Compensation of Oil Pollution Damage. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 2- (1) The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes related to the technical provisions of this contract. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... and those who do not accept... the 4th article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We're voting open with electronics. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the open vote of the Bill of the 1971 International Fund for the Compromise of Petroleum Pollution Change in the 1992 Protocol on the Establishment of an International Fund for the Compensation of the Expension of Oil Pollution: ▪ Number of votes used: 251 [[x]] Mine Leuk White Özlem Yemisçi The bill is accepted and legal. Good luck and good luck. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin negotiations with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which is now in the 17th place, in accordance with the approval of the International Anti-Corruption Academy's Founder's Agreement. Commission? He's in position. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 206 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Government? He's in position. The commission report was printed and distributed by 206 rows of numbers. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. TO CONTINUE THE BUILDING OF THE UNIVERSE OF ACTIVITY PROGRESSING TO THE PRODUCTION OF THE AUDIENCE MADDE 1- (1) On behalf of the Republic of Turkey, the approval of the International Academy of Anti-Corruption Agreement, signed in Vienna on December 21, 2010. I submit the number one item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the form of the open vote is done by electronic device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the vote: [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, I present the open vote on the adoption of the International Anti-Corruption Academy Founder's Agreement: ▪ Number of votes used: 247 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi This is how the bill is accepted and legalized, good luck and good luck. Members of the law, we will begin negotiations with the State Commission and the Environmental Commission reports on the establishment of an International Fund for the Harm of Oil Pollution in 1992. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 245 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 245 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. As part of the development of a national event for the establishment of a 1992 PETROL RIPTINATION, we will continue to participate in the 2003 PROTOCULATION OF THE PROTOCOLIC. MADDE 1- (1) was adopted on 16 May 2003, and it was appropriate for us to join the 2003 Protocol of the International Charter on the Establishment of an International Fund for The Harm of Oil Pollution. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers is authorized to approve changes to the technical supplements of the protocol. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 3- (1) is in effect in the history of this Law publication. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the form of the open vote is by electronic device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of the Parliament, I move that we submit to the International Convention on Establishing an International Fund for the Harm of Oil Pollution 1992. ▪ Number of votes used : 245 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi The bill is accepted and legalized; good luck, good luck. Members of parliament, we will now begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan between Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Turkey to sell natural gas to the Republic of Turkey and talks with the Foreign Commission Report (the Foreign Commission) on the Transfer over the Turkish Republic's Lands and on the development of natural gas over the Turkish Republic's Lands. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been printed and distributed with the number of 298 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed on to those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. AZERBURTHIC REPUBLICATION WITH THE COMMUNITY OF TOURHICATION REPUBLICATION IN THE AZERCY OF THE TURKEY, AND AZERBAN AZERBAN REPLICATION OF THE REPUBLIC, MADDE 1- (1), signed in İzmir on 25 October 2011, "Agreement on the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan has been approved for the sale of natural gas to the Republic of Turkey and the transit of natural gas from the Turkish Republic and the development of natural gas over the Turkish Republic's Landings. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic device: All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you a minute. I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Members of parliament, between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan to sell natural gas to the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Azerbaijan (x) 298 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I present the conclusion of the open vote on the Transition of Natural Gas over the Republic of Turkey and on the Approvement of Agreement on the Development of the Special Pipeline for the Transport of Natural Gas over the Republic of Turkey: "The number of votes used : 245 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi The bill is accepted and legal. Good luck and good luck. Members of parliament, we will now begin negotiations between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Court of Foreign Affairs, where it is appropriate to ratify the Agreement on the Reciprocity and Protection of Investments. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 13 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. NIJERYA FEDERAL REPUBLICATION WITH THE REPUBLICITY OF TURKEY REPUBLICATION TO CONTROL THE CONTROLATION AND PROTECTION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE CONTROLATION OF THE COMPLICATION OF THE COMPLICATION OF TOURCY MADDE 1- (1) was approved on February 2, 2011 in Ankara, with the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Congressmans, the entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the form of the open vote is by electronic device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We'll vote on the electronic device. (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 13 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. I'll give you a minute, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I present the conclusion of an open vote between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Nigerian Federal Republic that the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection of Investments is Approved: "The number of votes used : 245 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi The bill is accepted and legal. Good luck and good luck. Members of parliament, we will now begin talks with the 21st-ranked Turkish Republic of Turkey and the Foreign Commission Report on the Compromised Economic Partnership Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Iraqi Republic. The commission is in place. The government is in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 17 rows. No one wants word on the whole bill. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. REPUBLIC REPLICATION WITH THE IRAK REPUBLIC REPLICATION REPLICATION REPLICATION REPLICATION MADDE 1- (1) was approved on March 23, 2009 in Baghdad. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the form of the open vote is by electronic device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll start the vote with the electronics; I'll give you a minute. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 17 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Members of the Parliament, I present the conclusion of the open vote on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Iraqi Republic: ▪ The number of votes used: 259 [[x]] Mine Leök White ¡ Özlem Yemişçi The bill is accepted and legal. Good luck and good luck. Members of parliament, we will begin talks by the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources of the Republic of Turkey and the Ministry of Georgia between Turkey-Georgia and the Ministry of Energy for the Development of Turkey-Georgia Electric Interconnection. Commission? No. It's been postponed. In the 23rd place, we will begin talks with Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, where we are eligible to join the 187 Work Health and Safety Framework Charter. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Congressmans, it is 12 p.m. on Saturday, June 30, 2012, to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
