tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to make a promise to three congressmen. They've been talking for five minutes. The government can respond to these conversations. The government's response time is 20 minutes. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Mustafa Ozturk, who asked to be spoken on behalf of İstanbul's conquest anniversary. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, I have made a solemn pledge today to mark the 559th anniversary of the conquest of Istanbul, which is one of the exceptional events of our history that has left deep traces on the world's history page. I salute you all. It is the anniversary of the conquest of Istanbul, May 29, 1453, which closed an era and opened a new era. I'm celebrating the 559th anniversary of the conquest. On this occasion, as I begin my words, I remember all our heroes and heart architects, especially Sultan Mehmet and Akshmeddin the Conqueror, with mercy and gratitude. May their dwelling be in heaven, and may Allah be pleased with them. Istanbul's conquest is the union of the courage, courage, determination and genius of a 21 - year - old padishah, the experience of old age and prayer. Let us not forget that many of our young ones today are at the age of the Conqueror who conquered Istanbul. This young padishah went to Istanbul and took Byzantines or Byzantines to take me. He entered Istanbul in his determination and courage. That's the legacy we inherited. We're on his balance. The spirit we carry within us is the spirit of conquest. How well Arif Nihat sings in Asia, the Conquest March: The plowers shall be mowed, and the sails shall be set; And the mountains shall be taken away, and the galleons shall be taken away. And the teeth of the wall shall be cut out with pliers, Come on, why are you still fooling around in the game? You're the age when the conqueror conquered Istanbul. Young man! From the day you got the signal, You'll walk! People will walk behind you. I bring you greetings from Hasan. The conquest is the meeting of knowledge and knowledge. Conquest is the integration of the mind and the heart. The conquest is also an example of people of different religions, languages, and races living together, providing peace and justice, and implementing it. The conquest is the transformation of Istanbul into a centre of civilization and culture. In this climate of culture and civilization, the conquest is an example of the freedom of true faith and worship, which is based on respect and tolerance, as an example of the security of people's lives, goods, rape and chastity. The conquest of Istanbul is forever conquered by the establishment of right and justice and the conquest of hearts. As a matter of fact, the fact that the church leaders and locals initially resisted the offer of help to reclaim Istanbul shows how important this conquest is to human history. In the history pages of this philosophy, the story tells us: "The conqueror enters the city and goes to Ayasophia, and the patriarchs and the people are thrown into the ground, and they cry. Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror says to the patriarch: "Get up. I'm Sultan Mehmet. I tell you and all your friends and all the people that you will no longer fear my wrath on you for your life or for your freedom. He returns to his commander and informs the people that there is no evil. This is the sultan of tolerance. This is the city of such tolerance. This is the philosophy of loving him because of the Creator. No matter what religion, language, color, ethnic origin, religion, world opinion, the conquest was closed in the Middle Ages, the New Age, the most important states in history, the East Roman Empire ended thus, and the Ottoman Empire became an empire, yet twenty-one years old, Sultan II. Mehmet took the title of Conqueror, and he became known as Sultan Mehmet Mehmet. As our President-General and Prime Minister have pointed out, leadership is the art of speaking to hearts, not power. We are not there to break, to break, to hurt, but to do, to make things right, to make unity and unity. We're here to make hearts, so we're fighting to conquer hearts, he says. Our Prophet's (SAV) Istanbul will surely be conquered. What a fine captain that conquered him, and what a fine soldier that conquered him. The good news of this conquest has given meaning and significance. I'd like to tell you a little bit about Ayasofya, the symbol of conquest. Ayasofia served as a mosque for four hundred and eighty-one years as a symbol of the conquest of Fatih. Before World War II, it was turned into a museum with a decision made in difficult years. I think it would be appropriate for the spirit of conquest to be passed on to new generations, using the foundation of Ayasophia. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] At the end of my words, peace be upon those who are blessed, and peace be upon those who bear the spirit of conquest in their hearts, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0003par0031	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Chorum MP Kose, who wants to talk about the 32nd anniversary of the Chorum events. Here you go, Mr. Köse.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0004par0036	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today the 32nd anniversary of the Chorum massacre. Thirty-two years ago today, at intervals and in two stages, 57 of our citizens, including pregnant women, children, elderly and disabled, were burned, shot, stabbed, tortured, murdered. I bow before the memory of the slain. The shoal massacre could not be seen as a left-right conflict from political killings across the country, from Malatya, Marash, Sivas, Gazi neighborhood massacres. These massacres aim to silence the social opposition developed in the Eastern, Southeast and Interior Anatolian region, where imperial forces and their local collaborators, ethnic and sectarian communities, are working together, and to force the leftist and Alevis to emigrate. The dissolution massacre is a link and extension of these events. Dear lawmakers began to invade and destroy and burn the streets and streets of Çorum, and the homes and businesses of Alevi and the left-wings, a number of attackers who used to excuse the murder of Gün Sazak (Sazak) thirty-two years ago. The attackers were not satisfied with the streets and streets of Çorum. They occupied all the roads related to the neighbouring provinces, towns and villages of Çorum. On these roads, vehicles were stopped, ID checks were made, leftist and Alevi were beaten, tortured, and some of them were slaughtered. In addition, attacks have begun on areas where the leftist and Alevi live in dense concentration. The revolutionary youths and citizens who learned from the Maraş massacre tried to build barricades to ensure the safety of themselves and their families. The lesson from the Maraş massacre has allowed this massacre to remain this size. The same day, curfew was declared. These attacks, which lasted four days and the police could not remain neutral, have eased a bit by the intervention of the military, while the city, like Beirut and Nicosia, is divided into twos and threes. The second act of events was opened about a month later on July 1st, when fascist attackers attacked the neighborhoods of Alevi and left-wingers with long-range and automatic weapons and the same day curfew was declared. On Friday (July 4th), the curfew was lifted, and the attackers who knew the opportunity threw bombs on the mosques of Aladdin in the leftist and Alevilar Milönü, and provoked the people, saying, "They are killing the Muslims who pray." So the masses that came out of the mosques, whatever they put in their hands as weapons, they attacked the neighborhoods where the Alevis and the left-wings were heavily occupied. On that day, a police Panzer also vomited death, only 17 people were murdered on the 4th of July. My dear friends, I'd like to make two points here today. Today, power has prevented the celebration of the May 19 Youth and Sports Day, which represents the beginning of our National Liberation War. Why did I say that? Now, let's go from the beginning of the events to ten days before the beginning of the cycles. While preparing for the May 19th celebration, those who describe themselves as Muslim youth have distributed the declaration: "Muslim, keep your integrity. Another day is coming under the name of May 19th demonstrations, where there will be an attack on the chastity, chastity and shame of our sisters. It's tearing our hearts out, bleeding into us. Again, the Muslim son will cry blood, and the infidel will be stripped of by order, and exposed in the most obscene and shameful manner. Blessed are those who have jihaded with their soul, blood, and property. They have issued a proclamation in the name of the Islamic Youth. The second point, my friends, is that today TRT is the trumpet of power. On that day, on the 4th of July, TRT repeatedly reported that the mosque of Aladdin had been bombed and killed by Muslims. The same line is the line that aims to divide society ethnically and religiously, which does not serve social peace, and it exists today. My dear friends, I didn't tell all this to bleed the wounds, but to be taught from history, to contribute to social peace, and to bow before the memory of the slain. Today, AKP spokesman, especially the Prime Minister, continue the same line. The AKP's mentality does not want to give life to anyone who is unlike him, who does not swear. I'd like to point out that we don't want to be like you, and we won't be like you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If one must look like one, you will be like us, who haven't slaved for thousands of years to these unjust order and oppressors. I salute all my poor people.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0005par0050	Mr. Köse, thank you. The third word outside the agenda is from İstanbul MP Durmiş Ali Torlak. Here you go, Mr. Torlak.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0006par0055	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the 559th anniversary of Istanbul's conquest. I hereby salute your high council. Honourable MPs were conquered five hundred and fifty-nine years ago by the genius of Istanbul, Conqueror Sultan Mehmed. His unique strategy and rational move. Not only has a military victory been won by this conquest, but the balances that exist in the world have changed, with significant political, social, and economic consequences. Istanbul's conquest not only opened the era and closed the era, but in 1071 it ensured that the Turks who settled in Anatolia with the Malazzirt Victory would remain in Anatolia, allowing the Turkish nation to sit on solid foundations in Anatolia. Istanbul's conquest not only allowed Turks to cross the continent of Europe, but allowed them to come to the gates of Vienna and to ride on three continents. On this occasion, the dates began to be rewritten, and the geography was replaced. Together with the conquest, Istanbul, which was the capital of the Ottoman Empire for six centuries, became the window to the world. With its strategic position and glorious history that makes the world jealous, it continues to bridge the East-West. As in past history, Istanbul is today a center of attraction, a world city that guides the social, cultural, artistic and economic life of our country. The foundation of this continuity is that after the conquest of Sultan Mehmet Mehmet the Conqueror, the city's historical and cultural fabric is protected, that people of different faith and culture can live in peace in Istanbul, and that Istanbul will make Istanbul a place of tolerance. Dear MPs, the conquest of Istanbul is of great importance in the history of the world, the history of the 1,000-year-old Byzantine Empire, the closure of the Middle Ages and the beginning of the New Age. In terms of Turkish history, the Ottoman State's rise in the period of rise, the move of the capital to Istanbul, territorial integrity in the Ottoman State, the transition of control of the Black Sea-Akdeniz sea trade route to the Turks. In terms of Islamic history, it has given Turks a legitimate reputation and reputation in the Islamic world. It has been a source of pride for us that Istanbul became its centre in the Islamic world after Mecca and Medina. However, seven hundred and thirty-six years before the conquest of Istanbul, which was once the heart of the Islamic world, Mesme bin Abdulmelik, the first mosque of İstanbul and the Arab Mosque, which has been closed for two years after the conquest of Istanbul, has been closed for restoration. It is still unknown what will happen if the mosque, which is not even imam, is to be opened in public or turned into a museum by rumor. On the other hand, the building is being licensed against a historical vault in the inner walls of the Balat district, which, despite all objections, is being destroyed by a huge date. In Istanbul, there is no respect for the spiritual past nor for our history, for our historical works. The first mosque of Istanbul, which has not been opened on one side as an excuse for restoration, is concrete construction on historical monuments on the other. Murders, injuries, extortion and theft that have been happening in Istanbul for the past 20 years are a sign that our people, let alone the neighborhood, the street, the street, even their homes, are not safe. Dear lawmakers, it is our duty for Istanbul to take good care of the works that make these lands Turkish-Islam geography. It is our duty to take this blessed day from year to year not to be remembered but to be worthy of the heroics of our fathers, of their spirituality, of the praises of our Prophet, of the great Hakan Fatih Sultan Mehmet Khan, and of the commanders and soldiers who served in conquest. Therefore, it must be our national and spiritual responsibility to carry Istanbul in a strong manner in accordance with its historical past and spiritual position. With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the architect of Istanbul's conquest, the great statesman Sultan Mehmet Khan, and all his heroes, with respect and mercy, the symbol of Istanbul's indispensable masterpiece, Ayasofya, to be transformed into a spiritual and historical mission again, which I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0007par0065	Thank you, Mr. Torlak. Now, I'm going to promise our friends who've been in the system for a minute. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0008par0070	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the reason I'm here is because there's been an investigation by the Silivri Public Prosecutor's Office as a suspect in the Istanbul Bar President and members of the Board of Directors. Our friends, our fellow lawmakers, our friends on the Governing Body, have stated that under the 76th Amendment of the Law, the bar is assigned to the bar to defend its professional order, its dignity, its rule of law, its human rights, its duties to maintain the honor of the Governing Body, its profession in accordance with the purposes of justice, its profession, and its professions. They've filed a petition to the High Criminal Court. The members of the Governing Body and the chairman of the Bar have fulfilled his responsibility. Therefore, I condemn this kind of investigation into our friends, the Bar management and the President, without following the permission mechanism. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0009par0074	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Adana MP Varli...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0010par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to announce to the government that no one from the government is here right now. That's what I said the other day. Farmers can't deposit their loans back to the Farm Bank; they can't deposit their commercial loans, they can't get their commercial loans. The management of the Agriculture Bank is currently implementing a crisis economy. Please let the government find a cure for this. Our people who want to get credit have suffered a tremendous loss. I'll give you an example of what they paid last year... if they got 100,000 lira loans, they're investing that 100,000 lira this year, they can't get 50,000 lira loans. The government needs to come up with a solution. In the same way, the proportions of livestock, small livestock, and farmed areas have been greatly reduced. These need to be upgraded as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0011par0081	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0012par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. The teacher's salaries have been given false information and evaluations have been made. A teacher with a master's degree in Turkey today receives less salary than a janitor with an elementary school degree. More than half the teachers don't charge extra tuition. A teacher who gets sick for two days gets paid for a week's tuition. Despite these facts, Prime Minister Erdogan, teachers, you work for 15 hours. Your fee is not fair to the other officer. The prime minister literally tells the teachers that the money you receive is more than the work you do. It seems the Prime Minister is unaware of his teaching and teaching profession. Mr. Prime Minister thinks the teaching profession starts with overtime at school and ends with overtime. The teacher doesn't know how many hours she has to study for an hour. A prime minister who thinks teachers read their exam papers during working hours also manages Turkey. It is not enough that the AKP government employs teachers on slave wages, but also plays with the honor of teachers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I invite the Prime Minister to take back his unfortunate words and apologize to all the teachers.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0014par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. I sincerely celebrate the 559th anniversary of Istanbul's conquest. The conquest of Istanbul is the destruction of East Rome and Eastern Christianity; the bankruptcy of Western human values based on class; after all, for the West, it is a historic event, an age-turning event; a conquest that has been given to our prophet's praise. He says I strongly condemn the mindset, which avoids congratulating it in its essence, as a simple event.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0013par0093	Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. İstanbul MP Mr. Öğüt...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0015par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. One of Istanbul's most important problems is distorted urbanization. Therefore, he is quickly moving away from his historical fabric and facing environmental disasters. Looking from the throat to the peninsula, the skyscrapers appear to rise from among the historical structures. In particular, the 16/9 skyscrapers rising from the minarets of Sultanahmet Mosque have long been the focus of discussions. So, what happened? Culture and Tourism Minister Ertugrul Günay explained that during the construction of skyscrapers, he wrote a warning sign, stating that the structure negatively affected the silhouette and was close to the historical wall. The Prime Minister said the upper floors would collapse. The Metropolitan Municipality has raised a high volume limit in ten counties and about a hundred neighborhoods to ensure that the skyline of the peninsula remains intact, but this border has not been applied for 16/9 of the focus of the debates. Since the project has almost reached its end, its claims that it is out of the rules are grave. I wonder what the Conqueror would say to his heirs today. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0016par0099	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Congressman Ağbaba of Malatya...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0017par0102	Mr. President, I would like to share with you the cry of a citizen: I am a Basque citizen. Where's justice, where's the government, where's the government? If so, prove for God's sake. My father Hakkım, my mother, my brother Kasym, my aunt Zehra, my uncle Hashim, died on the ferry that sank at Karakaya Dam Lake in 2002. We filed a lawsuit against him, we won the case. Our case has been finalized for the Reputation of the Reputation of the Reputation of the Reputation to the Villages. It's been three years and we still haven't been paid. 13 of our citizens were killed ten years ago at Karakaya Dam Lake as a capsized ferry belonging to the Baskil subsidiary, described as a floating coffin. In the search, the bodies of 11 of our citizens were found, but the bodies of two of our citizens were still unaccounted for. Although the court has ruled for nearly ten years, no ground examination has been conducted, and no one has been punished for the use of the ferry, which is not available for life safety, and for the use of the ferry, who found the captain guilty and allowed the living coffin to move on water. In the same circumstances, they still travel from Malatya to Baskil. The dead are victims... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the victims of the dead have not been relieved. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0018par0108	Thank you, Mr. Agha. Mr. Eyidoğan, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0019par0111	Thank you, Mayor. There is a port anarchy in Istanbul, Büyükada, Heybeli, Burgas, Künalıada, Istanbul, where thousands of local and foreign tourists have arrived. City line boats, sea buses, public transport engines and freight engines all have separate ports. This creates confusion, noise, pollution of the environment, video contamination. This unscheduled situation must be reorganised, planned, and put in line with the status area. The relevant institutions must be allowed to make a deal on this matter. In addition, the entire weight of public transportation to the islands is carried by boats called ▪motor. It is not known by the standards of public transportation that these boats are pulling in from the beginning are implementing the passenger evacuation system. This poses a problem for the safety of citizens. This situation is also required to be examined. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0020par0115	Thank you, Mr. Eyeborn. Adana MP Halaman...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0021par0118	Mr. President, thank you, God bless you. I'm telling you, from the point of fact, in the past period, a minister of ours said that we would make an appropriate adjustment for Tripolispor. On Sunday, a fine adjustment was made in the Adanaspor-Kasimpaşaspor match. Now we expect a fine adjustment for the base price from the Minister of Agriculture for the harvest period of Adana. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0022par0122	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Özdağ, the Manisa MP...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0023par0125	The morality of corruption is the work of dismantling society by making hate of everyone and everything. We've been seeing the epiphanys of this morality in the Uludere case lately. They're trying to ignite a fever through the nation, create blood streams through the sufferings of our people. This is not thinking of those who lost their child in Uludere, but of their suffering. Every citizen who dies in this nation's geography is a citizen of ours. Other than those who died in Uludere, it is not human to look at those who were killed in Kayseri, to ignore those who burned a young girl alive on the city bus in Istanbul, and to even separate the pain. It's not human to live behind closed doors and drive young children into the fields of death by being cheap militants in the square. Our Great Book has told people who are trying to feed on blood, who, or who, from 1984, gave orders to those who brutally slaughtered thousands of soldiers, police, imams, teachers, women and children? What belhum islanders still bless terror and collect rants of blood? What are the names of those who don't attend our national festivals, who don't respect our flag, who don't read our national anthem? Yours truly.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0022par0127	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Finally, Kütahya MP Mr. Illum.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0024par0130	Thank you, Mr. President. As it is known, our country has become a country where every day our unemployed young graduates have become more and more numerous. According to the results of KPSS 2010 before July 2012, it is vital that some of our young people be employed by new appointments during June. On behalf of many of our faculty graduates, teachers, graduates of the science school, economics and administrative sciences, agriculture faculty, veterinary faculty and so on, I call upon the government to be sensitive to this subject.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0022par0132	Thank you, Mr. Light. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of Parliament, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications Bali Yıldırım, have asked to respond to proposals in the agenda of the agenda 1, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 69, 70, 71, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85, 86, 88, 88, 89 and 90. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The visit of the delegation, headed by Mr. Martin Schulz, chairman of the European Parliament (EP), was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council of Ministers, dated May 15, 2012, and by its decision 25th. The delegation's visit to our country is submitted to the information of the General Assembly under Article 7 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, there is a motion to resign from Parliament Research Commission number 10/236, 237, 238, 239, which has been established in our country to determine the measures needed to be taken by all the coups and customs that interfere with democracy and all the other initiatives that make democracy dysfunctional. 25.05.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Due to the intensive agenda of the Constitutional Compromise Commission, I would like to submit to you my request for forgiveness from the membership of this committee due to fear that I will not be able to participate in my mission and in the magnetization of the Commission, which aims to determine the measures that must be taken through the entire dimensions of all other initiatives and processes that have been disabled by the coup and democracy in our country. Prof. Dr. Mustafa Şentop It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Turkey faces an important environmental problem today due to industrialisation and distorted construction due to increasing internal migration. It is the most urgent measure in which human health and quality of life are worsening, especially because of the fact that many industrial facilities have been exposed to corrupt urbanization, water resources, agriculture, and forest areas are threatened, and environmental problems are rapidly condensed. As stated in Article 3 (B) of the Organised Industrial Areas of 4562, the purpose of building industry in acceptable areas, preventing corrupt industrialisation and environmental problems, directing urbanization, using resources rationally has been lost. The OSBs, which are concentrated in certain regions and provinces, have also made that clear. ===Early life===As a result of the fact that industrial facilities are easily accessible to raw materials, ports and railway transports are affordable, raw materials can easily be delivered from the port to the factory in short, economic and safe ways, the warehouses and the antrepos are densely located. For these reasons, new ones continue to open despite the intensity of industrial facilities that continue to run production activities in Kopeeli. In this case, the increase in environmental problems in parallel with industrialisation has led to conflict with the goal of environmental protection and sustainability of the development efforts in Schepeli. Today there are 400 first-class second and third-class non-profits, 16 OSBs, two free zones, three techno parks. According to KSO 2009 data, 82 of the 500 major industrial companies in Turkey are located in Kopeeli. This is a city that is full of the industry, as you can see from the data. In the province of Kopeeli, infrastructure and environmental measures have been inadequate, resulting in the rapid growth of industry and trade for many years and, depending on the growth of the population from rural areas to the city centre, resulting in serious environmental consequences. Because of its population density opening, there are 96 people dropping across Turkey, while the number rises to 432 people per km2. As a result, pollution has negatively affected the quality of air, water, and soil, and ultimately has reached a level that threatens human health. The number of active green fields per capita in the world's major metropolitan areas is 37 m2 for Bonn, 12 m2 for Paris, 19 m2 for New York. According to the 2009 County Environment Report, the city of Izmit appears to have increased to 10m2m per person of active green spaces, but still unable to reach the world metropolitan areas. According to 2007 data, about 10 per cent of the total agricultural land and about 20 per cent of the fertile land have been used without purpose. In the centre, the producers were forced to farm over 10 per cent of the sixth and seventh grade lands, due to the fact that fertile farmland in the plains such as Alikahya, Köseköy, Suadiye, Kuller and Arslanbey is a factory and housing area. According to KSO 2009, the share of the industry is 73 per cent, the share of the services is 14 per cent, while the share of the trade is 9 per cent, and the share of agriculture is about 3%. With industrialisation, the Bay of Izmit was filled with ports, shipyards, and storage facilities, for reasons such as increasing industrial facilities around the Gulf, the emergence of illegal construction near the industry, the occupation and destruction of the coasts. The coastal filling zones reached about 6,300,000 square feet as of today. The OSB and the KSS placement elections have compromised the region's ecological balance and animal balance, endangering the environment's future. Our constitution is 56. Article "Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. It is the duty of the government and citizens to improve the environment, to maintain environmental health and to prevent pollution.' It does. In this regard, our Constitution is 98, in order to protect our city, take the necessary measures for the health and future of our people living here. Article 104 of the TBM Civil Code. And 105. Under the terms of the provisions, we demand a parliamentary investigation into the environment and public health measures to address the negativity caused by the OSBs in the province of Kopeeli. We will return you to your high places. With all due respect. 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Malatya]] 4) Mehmet Crescent Kaplan [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 5) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 7) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] [[İzmir]] [[Adana]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[İstanbul]] [[Niğde]] [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Manisa]] [[Army]] 21) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Scholarship]] 23) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Decisions by the Supreme Council of Prosecutors (HSYK) that have been restructured by the constitutional amendment have left a deep stake in the public conscience. In the last ten months, 119 judge prosecutors have resigned voluntarily. Among the judges and prosecutors who have resigned are judges who have not even come to retirement. In the re-designation process of the judiciary by the AKP, Deputy State Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc's classmate Nazim was elected to the Source Supreme Court, while Hüseyin Karakullukcı was elected to the Prosecutor's Office. The Supreme Court has asked for his retirement before he was 65 years old. "God gave me a classmate and the Turkish judiciary was designed. I'm retiring so I don't have to be someone's judge. There used to be seniority and merit, and it was full of concepts. Now it's enough to be a classmate or close to someone to get somewhere." "I think we are facing too many problems that my stomach can't handle. The Turkish judiciary is suffering very deeply. In my opinion, the Turkish judiciary is already over," they left before they even reached the age of retirement. Support for candidates sent by the Justice Department ahead of the HSYK elections has been requested, and all of these candidates have entered the HSYK list in the election. In the meantime, HSYK is 13th in opposition to the arrests of Ergenekon defendants. Chief of the High Criminal Court, Koksal Şengün has been banished. Not only that, the HSYK has relieved the Lighthouse prosecutors of their duties, and the courts have evacuated all arrested defendants of the investigation into the Lighthouse. The founders and executives of the Justices and Prosecutors' Association (İSAV) have also been reassigned by HSYK without any demands. Ömer Faruk Eminayaoğlu, Hasan Ali Atay, Zechariah Sümük, Ahmet Taşyurt, Rushen Gültekin, Aysel Tezcan and Remzi Özdemir, who served in the Supreme Chief Public Prosecutor's Office, were exiled. Among the exiles, Eminayaoğlu and Sevir also worked to prepare the indictment for the closure of the AKP. Given all the appointments of the HSYK, it is clear that judges and prosecutors serving in cases where political power is on the side have been promoted and appointed as Chief Justice and Attorney General, and judges and prosecutors who have signed non-political decisions have been subjected to exile. Given these and similar examples, it is clear that Judge Erkin has fallen into the hands of the AKP's government. There are no rules of separation of powers that are the basis of our government. It is clear that the rule of law and the principles of judicial independence will damage and that the real victims of this damage will be the people seeking justice in independent courts. Our Constitution is 98, with the aim of identifying, uncovering, and resolving obstacles to the independence of the HSYK and the Judiciary Erki. Article 104 of our content. And 105. By establishing a Research Commission according to the requirements of the matter, we respectfully submit the investigation of the matter in all its dimensions. [[40s.]] 2) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] 3) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Malatya]] [[Sinop]] 6) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Manisa]] [[Army]] [[İstanbul]] [[Scholarship]] [[İzmir]] 12) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Antalya]] [[İzmir]] 16) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Ankara]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Most of our country is 1. And two. It is located in the earthquake belt. According to officials, 9.200 earthquakes have occurred in our country in 110 years, and over 7 earthquakes have occurred. Earthquakes of 4-4.9 in Turkey can occur every five days. Earthquakes between 5 and 5.9 can happen in 22 days or 1 a month. Earthquakes between 6 and 6.9 can occur between 8 months or a year. Earthquakes between 7 and 7.9 can happen every 40 months. The Van earthquake is viewed as the 33rd earthquake, according to 110 years of statistics. After our disasters in 1999, there were many earthquakes in various sizes. The latest Van earthquake has revealed that the issue of the earthquake as a whole country is a subject that will never be taken out of our minds. In 1999, the earthquake in Lakecuk caused most of the deaths and injuries to occur because of the mistakes in the buildings. Hundreds of people were hit by debris in the collapsed buildings. It wasn't an earthquake, it was a rotten building. Because of the earthquakes, the buildings in the earthquake areas were seen in a concrete way that they could not withstand the earthquake. The recent earthquake in Van has proved once again that the earthquake, not the earthquake, but the earthquake, has taken many lives. As with every earthquake, it is common for our country to immediately come up with scenarios about possible earthquakes. Rather than the solution, arguing over possible scenarios, reducing the stress of the event, first making our people nervous and then accepting it as a common situation, causing them to pause their search for solutions. One of the things that's been coming up lately is the rumor of an earthquake that could take Hatay and the surrounding provinces. The province of Hatay, which has been wiped out by many earthquakes and rebuilt in its history, must be conducted with the necessary work against possible earthquakes. Hatay and his surroundings are 1. It's a degree of earthquake. An earthquake in Hatay will affect cities in the southern Mediterranean region greatly. Among the common opinions of the experts are the issues where local governments do not do the work they need to do and do not allocate the necessary material resources from the earthquake for protection and precautionary work, the national and local strategy for earthquakes is not determined, the city's plans are based on political interests, without being moved by earthquake awareness, without producing continuous and practical policies. Moreover, there is no logical and reliable explanation for the government's use of the money collected from the public for many years as a "depression tax." It is clear that the destruction of our country, especially given the rapid population growth, unscheduled and unscheduled urbanization in the major settlements between the earthquake zones, will be higher than predicted. It is necessary to act on the national level of earthquakes. Changes in legislation, including building and building control laws, must be completed immediately. The necessary measures must be taken regarding the buildings used in public service. For reasons stated above, ahead of a possible earthquake disaster in our country in the years to come -- in order to determine and implement the measures necessary to be taken, the solutions, the determination and implementation of the dead, in order to inform our High Assembly and our people, we would like to have the Constitution opened under the Constitution's 98th, Turkish National Assembly's Articles 104th and 105th Articles of Parliament. [[Hatay]] 2) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[Hatay]] [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] 7) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Sinop]] 9) Ayşe Nedret Akova [[Balıkesir]] [[Balıkesir]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Gaziantep]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Edirne]] [[Ankara]] [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] 19) The Derivative of Rahmi Love [[İzmir]] [[Erzincan]] 21) Ali İhsan Kokturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Scholarship]] [[Niğde]] Members of parliament, the motions for the opening of a parliamentary investigation have been submitted to your information. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a gene. The motion has already been suppressed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and for Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, who has been accused and threatened by the surrounding countries, threatened and even raised new problems with his neighbours, unable to produce independent policies, who has threatened our national security by regional conflicts by insisting that their failures were a success, who has violated Turkey's leadership position, who has not met the Constitutional provisions, who has not informed the TBMM, and who has demanded that the Constitution be opened under Articles 98 and 99th and 99th and TBM Security. The foreign policy is constantly damaging and endangering our national security, regional activity, and international reputation. We are a country that is troubled with almost all of our neighbors, whose identity and identity have become unknown, so lonely, hearable, but unresolved. Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu can still say that Turkey will be a Jihan state, director and pioneer of change in the Middle East. However, our foreign policy, which has become a playground of nasari fantasies, is not able to lose its effectiveness and protect the interests of our country. Agreement on the radar base at the Globekuk and the deployment of foreign troops to the base were not brought to the TBM, but the Constitution was 92. The clause has been violated. The fact that the base belonged to the United States, not NATO, was hidden from the Turkish public, but US President Barrack Obama revealed the truth at the NATO Summit in Chicago. In the conflict between the Bezar Assad regime and the opposition in Syria, the AKP's ruling entity and provocative policy deepens violence in Syria, resulting in serious economic and social losses in our border provinces. The government keeps the issue of Syrian asylum seekers on the agenda as a reason for intervention in Syria. Because of Syria, Iran threatens our country because of the US radar station in Globecik, where our relations are tense. During Iran's visit in March 2012, TC took the expert advantage of Ankara for its nuclear programme. His prime minister has been left unresponsive by the Supreme Government. Iran is collaborating with Armenia. Together with Iran, Russia has expressed its dissension with the facilities established in connection with the NATO missile system in harsh rhetoric and declares that these facilities will be targeted if necessary. Although positive relations with the Kurdish government in the north have been established, our relations with Baghdad have been broken due to government-led Iraqi politics. Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki says Turkey has become an enemy country that is constantly involved in Iraq's internal affairs, and our flags are lit in demonstrations. Turkmen and Kerkuk are forgotten. The protocols with Armenia have failed, our relations are even more deadlocked. The opening gave Armenians new opportunities for their 2015 goals, while negatively affected our relations with Azerbaijan. The goal of full membership in the European Union is no longer on the agenda. The accession talks have stopped. The following politics removed Turkey from its position in a European country in the Middle East and transformed it into an Middle Eastern country. The government is ineffective against the Greek Cypriot government taking over gas supplies in the eastern Mediterranean. The initial responses from the high screen have been replaced by silence, while the GKRY continues drilling operations. For Greece and Aegean and Western Thrace, Foreign Minister Davutoglu failed to carry out his promised solutions. In the Aegean, the potential for conflict remains. Instead of establishing a healthy relationship with the United States based on equality and common values, the government is undermining Turkey's position by following policies that depend on the US line in the region. The dissolution of our relations with Israel has left Turkey out of the Middle East peace process, and Israel, along with the Greek Cypriots and Greece, has broken down against our country. As political responsibility for the failures of our country, which jeopardized the security of our country and undermined the interests of our country, the Constitution's 98th and 99th and TBM Interior shall be opened under Article 106 of the Constitution. It has been presented to your knowledge. The group proposal, which includes the day of the meeting on whether or not your client will be released, will soon be submitted to your vote. There's another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A parliamentary delegation of members of the TBM Foreign Commission is scheduled to make an official visit to Finland with the invitation of Finnish Foreign Affairs Commission President Timo Soini to the event. The parliamentary delegation's visit to Finland is presented to the General Assembly under Article 6 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit to your votes that those in favor...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0025par0363	We're asking for a sufficient number of meetings, Your Honor.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0022par0364	You're saying there's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0025par0365	No, sir, we need enough numbers for a meeting.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit01spe0022par0366	Then 20 people will stand up and read your names. [[A group of CHP MPs stood up]] Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yalçınkaya, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Acar, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Yüyüker, Mr. Ağbaba, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Öner, Mr. Özkoc. I'll give you two minutes to roll call, and I'll start roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's not enough of a meeting. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0022par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In voting for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the roll call on the request was not enough. Now, I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted to the counter. The Peace and Democracy Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall study and process and submit to your votes. 29.05.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 23 November 2011, Istanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel and his friends (3 rows) suggested that the Council of Assembly Research, which was given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate the reasons for the unionisation and organisation of workers and workers in Turkey, should be read in the same session on Tuesday (29,05,2012), and other proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. In favour of the proposal, İstanbul MP Sırrıyya Önder. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0026	Mr. President, dear friends, we just witnessed a landscape, and I'd like to start with it and do a comparison. An important issue is being discussed, especially when the AK PARTY lines are filled with voting, which is a little common practice, something we all do from time to time, one way or another. But it was very exemplary: the rush to prove that you were here after the vote was over. The vote's over, and the members of the EC PARTY are anxious to prove that you're here with a roll call. Why? We all know, Mr. Prime Minister is very particular about this matter. Now, look, if we realized that the same meticulousness -- the interest that I'm about to say -- that you're here -- that 10 percent of the responsibility and the responsibility on this subject were to be felt for these workers, that there would be a day in which the account would be asked, and that the right of the workers in this country would be paid. For him, 10 percent of the precision shown in this regard is enough to resolve this matter. So why do workers' rights are so ignored, and why are those who express their demands automatically considered the product of terrorists, separatist, destructive, external altars? And that's something that comes from the class roots of power. In front of the capital, when there's even the slightest obstacle to the initiative, the government is mobilising to make all kinds of legal arrangements, but when it comes to the rights of the workers, it's the government's campaign to defeat. If he's got another app to rebut it, then the AK PARTY speakers will speak after us, so let's hear it for ourselves.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0027par0028	We're doing it for employment.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0029	Look at the incentives you've brought for employment. For employment. It says a friend of ours from the AK PARTY. Look at the incentives you've brought for employment and the budget that's allocated to them, and remember how the ministers rejected the cost of giving half a point when the workers landed on all the fields so that they don't make 3.5 percent of it 4%; and then you'll learn what employment is. What you don't know is that you only think of employment as something that the employer, the capitalist, the investor would create. That's what they call a mental code. There are two legs to what you call employment, and there are workers in the other. For you, Neuzubillah, if you think of it in the night, the devil has whispered it. It's not just money you call employment, but how do we always open your mind, how do we make his life easier? Now, what did you do? You call it employment, an important leg of employment, workers. The officers' unions, the officers' unions, are saying 40 AK PARTIES are coming out of his mouth, so it's close to the government; they're not hiding it or hiding it. These people have started this resistance. Your Home Secretary, your speech-deprived Home Secretary, your government spokesman, has identified your party spokesman, and your Home Secretary, who lacks human qualities, has given them pepper spray. They had the President of the Union, KESK, not DİSK, sprayed by the President of Public-Sen. Now, don't you ever think about what that means? It's clear to us now that even the worker doesn't like his right hand. He doesn't care if he's right-wing or conservative when he's working. And the reason is, it's the workers who are going to ruin the government's vanity. Here, today in Turkish Airlines -- Mr. Minister here -- even the attempt to slow down a business has caused panic. Why? Because you don't have the ability to solve a crisis, manage a crisis, solve a problem. If you claim to have it, why do you send out the Panzers, the gas bombs, the pepper spray when five people come together to claim it? Answer me this. And if the right-wing unions did it, if KESK did it, and they did it all the time, you'd say, "He was a terrorist, he was a separatist, that's what." You spray pepper spray on the right-wing union president -- with a goal. This, here, is the most distinctive feature of the government's classical origins of the AK PARTY. You asked for a vote in the referendum. The freak you've created for the officers' collective rights, the freak you rushed in, it's a right to a collective contract with no right to strike. I mean, do you know if a bird flies without wings or a bird that flies with one wing? You're looking for a hole to escape when it's called "Emek. " No hard work, 'cause there's gonna be resistance, and when there's resistance, that's gonna be a bust. Is there any evidence of the self-esteem of a power that has received 50 percent of the vote?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0028par0033	Then why did he get 50%?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0034	Why did he get 50 percent? In the Middle East, the government is in charge. If you're wondering why you're getting 50%, don't ask me about my first earnings, I'll give you every last one of them a penny. Since you were not elected Kurdish MPs who received 34,000 votes and 64 thousand votes in 2002, you sent MPs here with 6,000 votes and 5,000 votes. When we ask about your first earnings, there's a mugging like this, and then you pay for it every penny. In the Middle East, power prevails, and power does not wear down. This system has made you in power. After that, how you use the possibilities of power, you must quietly resolve it yourself, and see how it happens.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0029par0035	According to you...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0036	Yes, let's take you with us, please!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0029par0037	Then why did the powers before us leave?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0038	The powers before you were so centrifugal, they didn't know how to collect power so centrally. No, that's not what they said.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0030par0039	We went to the election ten months ago, ten months ago. People voted 50 percent.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0040	We just did. You were supposed to say that when you voted for the Kurds and came in with more than 50 or 60 MPs. It's beneath us. You said, "Aha, we've brought down this election dam." Let's see whose son, whose daughter, all of them. For him, in this matter...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0031par0041	All the Kurds' votes went to BDP?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0042	Here you go, sir!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0032par0043	Don't answer him, Mr. Secret.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0031par0044	80% of the Kurds' votes came to us, to us.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0045	We see, we see. As for you, you've come with 30,000 or so votes to replace a deputy who's received 60,000 votes, and if he finds it on the floor, he'll look around. What if he owns it? Don't you ever talk!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0031par0047	You've come with a vote of theft...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0048	If he finds it on the floor, he'll ask the two Muslims next to him, if anyone owns it. You just ran off.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0031par0049	With 37 thousand votes...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0050	Let him go. These people, they know everything, these people know everything. If you want to call them Kurtt, start with Roboski, they're smugglers, they're allowed to die. Say a word to your minister and don't tell us.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0033par0052	No one said that.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0053	He said, your spokesman said, "This is not human, it is not human." What didn't he say? Come on, did Hussein Steel lie? Did he speak from his stomach? What did he say? He said it's not human. He said it's not human. This man is still the Home Secretary.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0034par0054	What's going to happen...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0055	Don't tell me, tell Hussein Steel. Don't tell me, tell Hussein Steel.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0035par0056	What happened, Home Secretary...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0026par0057	Why are you telling me? Your own party spokesman said, "This has nothing to do with humanity." For the first time, I agree with one of his words. (Applause from the ranks of BDP) So when I said to his sons who were slain there -- if you remember, there were unconscious men walking upon me -- you waited forty-eight hours to give me a conqueror, and God bless you for forty-eight hours. Now that you're up, is the vote of the Kurds yours? The vote of the Kurds is historically for the Kurds, for those who have expressed their corporate, democratic rights demands, for those who have entered the ground, not for those who have abused them. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0036par0060	Mr. Commander, thank you. The second speaker on the Peace and Democracy Group's proposal is Corum MP Salim Beşli. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go, Mr. Nice Guy.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0037par0064	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate. I salute you. I'd like to point out that I find the motion given by our Congressman friend, Mr. Tuncel, to be very important in bringing up the problems of the workers who have lost their jobs. Yes, layoffs are an overwhelming problem, and it's unlikely to generalize it based on a few isolated events that Mr. Tuncel was talking about in his motion, however, to present a large picture of industrial relations. First of all, the data in the motion for dismissals is based only on information from some of the unions, so it's not objective, but it's not exactly the reality of Turkey. The data of all trade unions has not been taken into account, the data of different confederations has not been taken into account, there is not enough data on sector numbers, there has not been sampled from different municipalities. Because of all of this, I'm saying that the motion from this motion cannot be generalized. In addition, a permanent contribution cannot be made to the solution of the problem, not only by discussing the layoffs from written workplaces in this motion. We'll just be discussing the problem here, and we'll have done one of the discussions, and we'll have a report, as discussed several times before in Parliament. However, what needed to be done here was once a process analysis of past years, and with the data of all trade unions, the data of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Employment, unemployment insurance, and Social Security should be presented together. An important data source could also be created in terms of Parliament's decisions. Instead of a comparative and systematic study, I think it's not possible for us to make a complete generalization of the problems of Turkey's industrial relations with a few complaints, and it's not going to lead to the right results. Not much, but when we review newspaper reports just ten years ago, we all remember the days when mass layoffs were much more intense and much more common, even when nearly 1.5 million workers were thrown out.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0038par0068	What's the date, Mayor?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0037par0069	Yeah, it's the 2000-2001 crisis, and you know it. You remember Mr. Refiq Baydur's threat to one and a half million workers in those days. Now, we've been through the global crisis, we've felt deep. However, we didn't feel too deeply about intense layoffs, busy layoffs in the past. There are several reasons for that. One is, in the 2000-2001 crisis, our social reflexes and social protection systems were not so strong. For example, we didn't have unemployment insurance, we didn't have job security. We didn't make today's arrangements in Business Law 4857. For example, there was no short work grant in the Employment Act -- which you know very well -- but as many of the workers who came to the agenda today to be laid off -- the number of them is obvious -- because some of them took advantage of job insurance, some of them took advantage of unemployment insurance, so the layoffs didn't feel as deep and hurtful as they did in the past.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0039par0071	You were talking like the head of the DİSK, President, now you sound like the president of the employers' unions. You've eaten the labor of the workers for years.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0040par0072	It must look different from there, from the AKP rows.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0037par0073	Yeah, I know what I said yesterday, and you obviously didn't listen to me very well.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0039par0074	You sound like the president of employers' unions.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0037par0075	Now, what needs to be done here is not only to discuss the problem, but to present solutions. It's obvious, too. One: Our unemployment insurance law must be updated. Access to unemployment insurance must be facilitated, the benefits provided by unemployment insurance must be increased. Two: More than unemployment insurance should be updated, upgraded to the ILO norms, and a legal arrangement with the ILO norms should be made in line with the ILO norms on return to the absolute job. Third, the union regulations haven't changed. So after September 12, 1980, the union's legislation is unfortunately still in effect. Turkey has changed a lot, created new structures, developed new understandings, but unfortunately it has not been able to change the unional legislation. I don't blame anyone for that, you have to look in the mirror first. Some labour unions, some employers' organisations, also know very well that they have not put their best efforts behind them to avoid dialogue, to avoid compromises, and unfortunately, some of the Union's legislation has not changed because of obstacles, although the workers' ministers have taken very good steps in this matter. So I think we need to rethink the union's legislation with an understanding of ILO norms, modern, business security, and union security. A final preparations have been made, and let's see if he comes to Parliament. We'll wait for him with patience. On top of all that, I have to express in particular that the unions have to redefine their positions, roles, vision, increase their capacity to solve problems. In this era, the future of businesses we work for, the competition, efficiency of business, quality, export, structure, modern industrial relations, the business of democratic industrial relations, should interest us as much as it concerns us, we should have words to say about it. Beyond all that, there are regulations in Turkey, beyond the laws, or 2821, 2822, there are regulations in Law 4857 from Article 19 to 21, but beyond that, there is a serious social acceptance problem in Turkey. So it's as if unionisation is a barrier to competition, production, efficiency, as if business health and safety measures are a cost. Therefore, the measures are delayed, delayed, or missed. Therefore, I would like to make it very clear that there is a need for a vision of a new industrial relationship that is generally strengthening the concept of social protection. In addition, I would like to say that beyond facilitating access to unemployment insurance, the Employment Insurance Act must be reconsidered so that it can be returned to work. Yeah, instead of doing research and putting research on shelves, dusty shelves, like before this, I think it's a rational, more rational attitude to take legal measures. Therefore, there are regulations that have come to commissions that have passed through the commissions. I think it would be helpful to get these regulations through Parliament and legalize them as soon as possible. By the way, instead of being a class act, I can give dozens of examples of the EC PARTI's rational behavior, that he's following rational policies, and since my time is running out, I can't, but I want to tell Mr. Leader that the EC PARTI is particularly involved in promoting employment, I'm saying that employment councils are being created and important work is being done in this regard.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0041par0084	You attack harder than the attacks of the Kenan Universe.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0037par0085	In my province alone, since 1995 alone in Çorum, a total of 165m euros has been paid to increase employment since 96, and in 2011, bonus support is 47 million euros. Currently, the unemployment rate in Çorum is nearly half the average in Turkey. I think rational policies are more valid and more important than slogans to address the unemployment issue, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0042par0088	Thank you, Mr. Goody. The third speaker is İstanbul MP Süleyman Çelebi. Mr. Çelebi, please.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0043par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, I have made a pledge in favor of the Peace and Democracy Party's motion to investigate. I salute the High Council with respect, with love. My dear friends, in fact, I would like to inform the House today to discuss obstacles to the freedom of organization and to share our approach to removing obstacles. Mr. Good has just mentioned ILO contracts, union rights and freedoms. I started to ask myself if we didn't live in the same Turkey, and I started to wonder if we didn't do that union thing together. I mean, I guess it's different when we're unionists, different when we're in opposition, different approaches we have around here all the time, and I'm also very upset that this process is being deflected like this. First of all, there is no freedom to organize in Turkey. That's not what I'm saying, it's research, it's just been published last week. Why don't you join the union in this country? If I become a member of the Syndicate, I'm fired. They say they're afraid of being a member of the Union. 32 percent say I don't need to. More or less 8 percent say that the union's dues are large or that notary and other costs are notarized. On the other hand, in the same research, 50 per cent of employees in this country work off the books, working illegally, according to official figures. You know, off the record, a little polite, illegal work is going on in this country. According to us, that number is around 55 percent. On the other hand, today we wake up with a new offer. On the one hand, the pressures of the Air-Work Union, the atrocities are not over, some of the obstacles that are no longer legalized are now being brought to the front of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with a new law, a new pirate law. We're against piracy, and I'm having a hard time understanding that this pirate law is being brought into this parliamentary agenda by the Ministry of Interior because I'm a member of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission. Have mercy, is that where this law is to be discussed, or is it the Home Secretary's commission on this matter? Is that something to discuss here? Why? Because it's being brought to an end. On the one hand, the Common Business Relations Act was discussed, it was tried to be brought to the agenda of the House, some obstacles, some pressures were put on that shelf. Business killings continue, we're the world's second in business killings, we're the world's first in Europe, and we're working on a proposal for law in this sense in the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, where, on the one hand, law proposals are brought to the front of the House of Corrections, which brings the ban on strikes in the Air-Works. Now, on the one hand, the AKP shouted, "Don't you want more than one union?" said Prime Minister? Everyone said we want to. We're paying the high price for being a member of a union, let alone more than one union. In the same referendum, we will remove obstacles in front of the grevs. Kenan Evren... you know, we're going to settle on September 12th. You're going to bring an arrangement that's taken back more than the 12th of September laws before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. That's what you understand about advanced democracy, that's your advanced democracy! You're trying to pass laws based on prohibitions, illegal understanding and oppression and violence based on the majority of you in this House. It's a betrayal. This law is brought here in an understanding that you have betrayed what you said in the government programme, and that you have already said in your election declaration. Because there's been a lot of operations involving the Air-Business Union. A trade union that was not in that line of work applied for authority in that line of work; courts continued for many years, and it was determined by the Air-Business Court. This is over, the majority has been contested, it's over, it's now full discrepancy, it's been brought to the strike stage. Twenty years, dear friends, no strikes in the air force. What's the matter, what's been done and you bring a restraining order here? Twenty years of strike in this line of work, and the deal has been reached. What's changed now? What made you suddenly feel the need to re-open these bans? There's only one reason: you've been tasked with implementing a new, oppressive system, and you've been tasked with using it to benefit the capital. Previously on the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission -- there's unionists, there's medics -- and now you're putting the rejected proposal into the proposal of the law on piracy, and you're trying to get it through this Parliament. Dear friends, business is serious, as far as I can tell, over two hundred flights have been canceled, and the workers, technicians, captains, cabin attendants who are currently working at the airport are in an infinitive state. Stop this process. I warn this Parliament once again, this is not for Turkey, not for us, not for the country, not for the Turkish Airlines. Stop this game from wherever this game is being played, because if these actions that have begun today, if this law is removed from the House and this tension persists stubbornly, Turkey could face a more dangerous problem outside the actions of these psychological workers. The workers who have no morale, only one assurance, the most basic guarantee of the strike, the right to strike, will stand against it at any stage, I say this from this stand. So when the road is near, I want this turned around, and if there really is going to be a union arrangement, get out of here a law that should be discussed in accordance with the ILO norms mentioned here, in accordance with the European Social Conditions, in accordance with the Common Business Relations Act. End this game, this game is no longer accepted by the workers, the workers are not buying it. And don't play with the workers' future and don't play with their security against the fundamental approaches you put against this structure. The workers have only one guarantee, the right to strike. That strike was awarded to the AKP's Power by workers who used it before September 12th and after September 12th during the worst times. So I would like you to withdraw this law in order to end it, and I would like the workers' most fundamental right to the contract, and I would like to warn you from here on out: After these bans have come, you will not be able to answer it in ILO, you will not be able to give it in Europe, and we will owe it to you all around the world to expose you. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0044par0105	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. The last speaker on the proposal is Mr. Haluk Ayhan of Denizli. Here you go, Mr. Ayhan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0045par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, I have taken a pledge on the group proposal for the reasons for the unionisation and organisation of workers and workers in Turkey, 203 rows. I hereby salute your high council. I made a promise against him. Why did I get the word against it? First of all, we need to compromise. What should we settle on? As lawmakers, we ourselves have difficulty organizing how we can work here, how we can continue to work. I've just been very upset as a congressman to see that all commissions have been cleared during the roll call, that the ruling side has been installed here for inspection, and that there really is more to be carried out of formalities than there is to have a working environment. If we can't organize this, how do we determine the obstacles to workers' rights, workers' rights? For that to happen, there's got to be a compromise ground. Is there a compromise or not? The compromise ground doesn't really exist in the general sense. The way we all view the issues of this country may not be so economically different, we can get close to it, but I see that there are problems even in the discussion. For one thing, this right to organize, the problems of workers, these are constitutional rights. What should be done on constitutional rights? It's a compromise anyway. Other than that, it's important to prioritize the problems of workers in a place where unregistered workers reach 50 per cent, but if you consider that 50 percent of every 100 employees are working off the books, we can see how much trouble that issue is. In fact, in the next draft bill, we see a number of events, such as the postponement of the Grev, which are now to be discussed, compressed into the inside of other laws, within the plans. Now, you encourage, you explain about incentives. Look, what happened despite the fact that there was talk of incentives and employment? You're just starting to get the legislature on that. So there's no infrastructure, there's no floor, there's got to be a compromise. The employees are in trouble, and there's no way for fellow representatives to protect the rights of employees. Look, we're seeing the trouble of the officers. I see for the first time in five months that as a friend of yours who's been working for the public finances for many years, they haven't been getting their dues. You can say something because of the lack of legislation, because of the lack of legislation, but it's not right to neglect the rights of employees, to delay theirs, even though you spend the bill fighting. The off-the-books guys are out there. Women's employment doesn't exactly go into statistics. There's not enough statistics. There's no transparency. The president of the State Statistical Institute also has sincere explanations for this, and I can't gather enough information, he says. The government has become really problematic because they can't gather enough information. How will this worker protect his rights? He can't get a job anyway. He's willing to work off the record. What do you see 5 million people doing when you consider 2.5 million official, non-employees? You can see he's unemployed. They're underpaid, forced to get a job. And there's no justice in the fee. Now, what was the government supposed to do with them? He had to provide this environment and go to heal it. Look, let's take a look at the current situation. There's been no decline in unemployment rates since the AKP arrived. Oh, you'll say there's a fall. There's been a jump in your day, a way back to the 14th, but since you've been here, there's been no improvement in unemployment rates, still over 10 percent, double digits. Even if you say the unemployment rate continues to decline in the first quarter of 2012, there is a significant slowdown in economic activity. Slowing down in economic activity does not contribute to the prevention of unemployment. What will unemployment do when economic activity slows down? It's going to go down relatively. In the first quarter of 2012, the turnout rate dropped. The turnout to the labour force was 49 per cent last year, while this year it dropped to 48 per cent in the first quarter. Yearly employment growth in the first quarter of the year around 500,000. What was that in the previous years, after the crisis? It was about a million and a half. The slowdown in economic activity will slow down more and more in the coming period. What's that got to do with an increase in employment? It will. As we look now, the Constitution has the right to organize these workers, the right to work life. Now, is it possible to say that the provisions for working in the Constitution, the right to work and homework, the right to work and the right to rest, the right to form a union, union activities, the right to strike and lockout; they are being operated? Look, I can make it very clear that in the very short term, the rise in officers' unions to the hundreds of thousands really has to be very carefully examined as to what's the cause of the rise in the confederate unions. It's a big deal. You're officially pushing the employee. Convincing rooms were built, that was his result. No matter what you look at, how does a real working person protect their right to organize, other rights? He can't get a job anyway. As I've just said, you don't appreciate the officers' unions. What should you at least give them? First of all, if you were talking about solid public finances, you'd give him an advance, and then you'd have to say something to justify it. I see you're far from doing it, and you're not doing it. And that's because there's a problem with public finances. When the problems of the Cari open and foreign trade deficit were to reduce it, what did the slowdown in economic activity reveal? He exposed the budget deficit. So, when it's clearly one-sided, it's now becoming problematicly both-sided. As I've just said, unemployment is really double digitized. 57% of the employees are under-educated in high school, 12 per cent are free family workers, 57 per cent work less than 10 people. Two-and-a-half million people who are not looking for jobs and ready to work, and two-and-a-half million unemployed; five million unemployed. So what do they have to do? It has to be handled very well. Really, if this was a good environment for a businessman to show economic activity, that unemployment would be solved. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is possible for me to express further my views on this matter. I'm leaving it here because I'm out of time. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0046par0129	Thank you, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0047par0130	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit02spe0046par0131	We've got enough to decide... Now, let's move on to the vote of the Peace and Democracy Party's resolution according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... Yes, there's a disagreement among the clerks; we'll vote by electronic vote. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0046par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Peace and Democracy Group's proposal did not have enough decisions to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to call the number of decisions that are sufficient. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. Congressmans, the National Movement Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes. Date: 29.05.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors on Tuesday 29,05.2012 (now), since there is no consensus among political party groups, I would like to submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Interior Charter. Yours truly. S. Nevzat Don't Fear Our parliamentary research proposal for the agenda of Turkey's Grand National Assembly on Tuesday 29,05.2012 (now) was proposed to be read in the General Assembly on Tuesday (now) in the Union of its talks, "in order to determine the problems in the agriculture and animal sector and the measures that should be taken by investigating the negative impacts on farmers." On the proposal of the National Movement Party Group, the first speaker, Hatay MP, is Mr. Adnan Sefik Ugly. Mr. Ugly, here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0048par0017	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the research proposal on the problems of agriculture, one of Turkey's most important issues. I salute you all with respect and respect. Mr. President, lawmakers, agriculture has now become one of the most strategic trade groups in the world. It is clear and clear that agriculture should be considered another strategic importance for Turkey, a country of agriculture, as well as for our country, which is at a strategic point for the Middle East and Europe, given the assessment that farmers are soon to take the Lamborghini on a bet that they care about agriculture. In agriculture, we have cotton farmers, we have potato farmers, we have oil farmers, we have beets producers, we have meat and milk producers, and unfortunately, as of today, all of these problems are in the middle of their problems, and the measures taken by the government do not result at the point of these problems. So every time we bring up the problems of agriculture, the government's valued officials, executives and spokesman of our ruling party are talking about their support for agriculture and saying that they're growing more and more, but there's also the fact that it's still standing, as agriculture has its problems. Of course, these supports are obvious, and the support is not enough. Then at the point where this must take other measures, our Parliament, our government must think. Like olive oil. In my province, I have the District of Altınözözu, and the income of Altınözu is usually made of olive oil. The price of olive oil -- with old money -- is $6,250,000 -- in the 57th period of government, when we dislike it, at times criticize it, accuse it of failure, accuse it of incompetence. In 2012, the year we live in -- our regional lawmakers can ask -- that olive oil doesn't even cost 4 million. And in the years between three and five million -- not more than five -- it's fallen below this year -- and this year's estimated cost is 6 to 7 million. So, what was supported by this olive oil? In 2012, it's $500 million per ton, so it's $260-270. Over the years -- starting in 2002 -- your government's support for oil per ton by the AKP Power is 150-250 million. How did the 57th government begin? As soon as he came into office in 1999, despite the conditions of the earthquake, he saw the crisis inside the oil manufacturer and started with $400. Today, about 12 to 13 years later, the number you can find doesn't even reach here, and we haven't been able to support half of it in the years between. So in order to express the support of our government, I have to say this. In addition to the problems of the manufacturer in each area and the problems of input, we say that the costs of diesel, fertilizer, medicine, labor have increased by 3, 5, 8, 10 times as much as their pen from 2002 to 2012. We'd like to look at the potato makers here, too. Potato manufacturers have been complaining about their six months without money coming into their house. The manufacturer was affected by panties in Nevşehir. I just received this information, and 60 percent of the product stays in the field. It's sold for the rest of the potato costs. Potatoes are in tractor vaults, waiting to be thrown out in storage. When they don't have the authority to listen to their troubles, they face the gendarmes, the villagers of Nevşehir. Now, our producers who sell potatoes under the cost not only in Nevşehir, but in Afyon, Central Anatolia. He's facing a foreclosure. I don't think this is going to be contested by the esteemed lawmakers of this region, because it's all the obvious facts. Besides, the precious Parliament, the farmer has costs. Among these costs are diesel, fertilizer, medicine and -- I'm talking about cotton -- collection fees, they're very high, they're very high. There's also electricity bills that matter as much as these. Now I'm asking you, can the farmer pay the electricity bills monthly? Does that make any sense, any explanation? I mean, how's a farmer who buys a crop every six months gonna pay the electric bills every month? With what income, where's he gonna pay for it?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0049par0026	He can't pay, he can't.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0048par0027	He probably won't be able to pay. What grows in a month? Maybe in 40 days the cucumber will catch up. So once - God bless -- our former President Süleyman Demirel, because of teachers who grew up in forty days, asked what friends would grow in forty days, and he answered himself, "If he grows up, the prick will grow." So what will grow in a month, with what product, with what opportunity will the farmer pay this electricity bill? Now here's the truth. Meat and milk producers are in crisis. That's the truth. So Turkey is now able to import many goods, strategic goods, food products. He became an importer of wheat. He became an importer of meat. He became an importer of the living animal. I mean, these are important issues where the government puts the hat in front of it and makes it think. Dear Council, surely there is a cure for these problems. For example, there are certain measures taken, and you have to express them. These schools have been helped by the milk project. You have to accept that, and thank you for that. Maybe it didn't raise the price of milk, but it did keep the dairy industry from going much lower, much lower, much more milk prices, and milk speculation. You can only appreciate that these are palliative solutions. These are far from the real solution to the problem. In Turkey, the cooperative system must be reorganised, and after this is organised with a reformist understanding, it must be made useful to animalism, carnivorous, dairy. Germany figured it out. Why can't we solve it? He reduced his 3,600 co-op to 350, improved his monitoring system, and also made significant advances in meat and dairy. Of course we can do that. But we ask, and we ask you to sit down and discuss it, especially with good intentions, by voting in favour of the ruling party MPs and by voting in the positive direction, and we ask you to support us in this matter in order to resolve our farmer's problems as soon as possible. I thank you all very much with these thoughts and feelings, my deepest love and respect. Mr. President, thank you, too.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0050par0035	Thank you, Mr. Ugly. Adıyaman MP Mehmet Erdogan on the proposal of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0040	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party's motion to investigate the Parliament. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers have perceived agriculture as more of a strategic sector than just an economic sector. His plans, his projects, his studies, where he got agriculture from, and at this point, I'd like to share with you the work done in the field of agriculture. As a result of agricultural economic size, our country has risen to the 1st place in the world in the 11th row, the 4th row in Europe, Spain, France, Italy, to the 1st place. In 2002, the GDP, $23.7 billion, went up to $62.7 billion in 2011, and increased more than three stories. We have 75 million people and 30 million tourists who provide food. Today, our agricultural sector exports 1,532 types of agricultural products to 186 countries.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0052par0043	How many billions of imports do we do?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0044	In 2002, exports, only $4 billion, rose to $15.3 billion.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0052par0045	Import it, import it!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0053par0046	Give me the import numbers, Mr. Mehmet, imports!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0047	The agricultural sector is in good hands now. Our farmers are the good children of this country, not the stepchild of the economy, and the foundation of our work has been well done in the sense that our farmers produce a healthy, reliable food and our consumers meet with them. Fifty-two new agricultural supports have been implemented. Between 2003 and 2011, we supported our $44 billion farmers.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0054par0048	How much does wheat weigh?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0049	In 2002, $1.8 billion was given total agricultural support, while we increased it four times, raising it to 7.1 billion euros in 2011, 7.6 billion in 2012.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0054par0050	How much is the diesel, diesel?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0051	We pay $1 billion -- $1 billion in oil seeds in May and 1 billion in June -- 90 percent of agricultural support totalling 7.6 billion -- before June. We made it easier for our farmer to produce. A dream came true, and for the first time, the AK PARTY launched an agricultural insurance policy that protected the farmer's labor against natural disasters.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0055par0053	It began during the 57th government, during the 57th government.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0054	We covered 50 percent of the insurance policy to protect our farmer from drought, underwear, and other disasters. A record increase in agricultural loans has been made. In 2002, we reduced agricultural interest rates of 59 per cent to zero in livestock and irrigation, to 5 per cent in other agricultural activities. The amount of loans provided by the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans was only $529m in 2002, but, yes, we increased it 42 times, and the total loan used in 2011 exceeded 22 billion euros. In 2002, only 550,000 people were credited, while in 2011 1,100,000 farmers used agricultural loans. As agricultural production gains speed, compared to 2002, the return rate of loans has been increased from 30 per cent to 98 per cent. The total share of animal support was raised from 4.4 per cent to 26 per cent in 2011 to 28 per cent in 2012. In 2002, animalism was only supported by 83 million euros, while in 2011 it was raised to $1 billion,727 million. We planned to pay $2.1 billion in animal support in 2012, and we're doing it one by one. We've reset interest on loans given to animalism by agriculture Bank and agricultural loans; 6.3 billion euros of zero interest livestock loans have been used; the sector has won, Turkey has won. For the first time in the history of the Republic, we've given our farmers diesel support. We also pay our farmers directly for fertilizer support. We've increased the number of products given bonus support from four to seventeen. According to efficiency, 30 agricultural basins have been identified. In Turkey, agriculture's power has been increased, determined which region will best yield from the product. We supported the investments of facilities to be built for the processing, packaging, packing, storage of agricultural products and equipment purchases by 50%. So we led to the establishment of over 3,000 agricultural industrial facilities. More than 160,000 machines have been provided with equipment support. We paid 1.2 billion TL, allowing over 32,000 people to be employed. In 2002, we tripled the number of food inspectors who were 1,500, and increased to 4,000 in 2011. So we made our nation eat safer food. 8,000 vets and agricultural engineers, who began their duties in the AK PARTY, went to the stables, the fields, the meadows, the feet of our peasant and farmer, working shoulder to shoulder with them. From production planning to seed use, we have employed agricultural consultants who have helped our farmers in many ways from crop-dive; medicine, fertilizer use to harvest. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you know, the harvest season has begun, and I wish our farmers, our nation, good luck, good luck, good harvests. As of Monday (June 4th), Adıyaman (June 4th) will not leave our farmers alone in Adıyaman, as in all Turkey's offices -- we will begin to harvest grain with all kinds of preparation -- together with the harvest. Dear opposition MPs, we're listening to you, but what's really important is that our nation listens to us, our nation's gratitude and appreciation. I will share one thing with you: I am in Adıyaman, my constituency, and we are traveling with our friends in the election work. We have come to the village of İsnikan, Besni district of Adıyaman Province, Turkey. The children, from 20 to 25 years old to 15 years old, from 20 to 25 years old, from 15 years old to 15 years old, cry out for the AK PARTY flags, the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0056par0063	You must have given sugar, sugar, sugar, tricked the kids.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0064	I said, "Kids, where are the votes?" They said, "The votes are for the AK PARTY." I said, "Why the children, why the AK PARTY?" Dear opposition parties, listen, a six-year-old boy said: "The AK PARTY is telling the truth."
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0057par0065	Yeah, she loves you guys! The father of the same children will hurt you one day.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0066	We said, "We will not be deceived, nor will we be deceived." We built the bridges of hearts with our nation, and said, "By the will of God, continue to serve." (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) As a love, we perceived it as a sense of worship, and so we continued.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0058par0067	Go to Çukurova. Don't tell a story, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0068	And all the elections we've been in, we've moved up our vote. Fifty percent in Turkey, but my brothers in Adıyaman, my friends in Adıyaman, showed once again that they were the pearl of Turkey as more than 67 per cent in support.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0058par0069	Come and see the Çukurova farmer.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0051par0070	I thank both my Adıyaman brothers and my farm brothers. He wishes his crops to be abundant, his harvests to be fruitful, that I am against the RSP's research proposal, and that I salute your grand delegation with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0058par0072	We're both commissioners, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0059par0073	Mr. Erdogan, thank you. Now, the third speaker, in his favor, Mr. Vahab, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Chosen.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0060par0077	Tell me about the citrus.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0061par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. As I listened to Mr. Erdogan, I was suddenly surprised if he was referring to the agriculture, agriculture, animalism of another country.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0062par0080	Mr. Vahab from Turkey, from Turkey... you'll get used to it.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0061par0081	In fact, he's a dear colleague of ours in the Commission, and he's also a dedicated friend of ours, but, of course, he's speaking in political jargon, discussing agriculture with political style, political debates. And you can appreciate that one-quarter of the current employment is an important issue that concerns our citizens in the agricultural sector, and there will surely be problems with agriculture. It's a huge industry, it's a big sector, it's a dynamic sector; it can be replaced by current decisions, it can be replaced by climate. So there's a lot of factors on agriculture, and we're talking about a very important dynamic sector that's affecting its progress in determining whether it's right or wrong in policy. Of course, does agriculture have problems, animalism? There is. Why is it happening? Of course, in agriculture, in animalry, in a country with great resources, potential, if these problems are happening, you'll look at the policies that have been implemented when you think about them in plain logic. So you're going to have 28 million hectares of agricultural land, you're going to have 8.5 million hectares of waterable space, you're going to have an enormous climate, you're going to have biodiversity, you're going to have manpower, you're going to have everything that God has given you, but you're going to have crises in the sector, or you're going to have problems in this industry, you're going to have farmers who are going to cry out all the time. Now, I have looked at the nationalist Movement Party's motion: the problems with agriculture and livestock and the negative effects of those problems on the manufacturers. I don't know if it's in your territory or not, it's in my territory. The farmer can't pay his debt, he commits suicide, he takes his own life. The farmer can't pay his debt or earn the income to support his family from production, he leaves where he was born, he leaves his village, he leaves his land, he goes to the big city; he's hungry, miserable, he's unemployed, he's weak. Of course, you've given him economic growth on paper, and I'm not saying anything to him, but for God's sake, is the economic model you're putting up an economic model based on production? So ten years ago, ten years later... the numbers are your numbers. The unemployment rate is 8%; you came to power at the end of 2002; we're in 2012; we're in a double-digit unemployment rate today. That's not what I'm saying, it's from the institutions in your dispatch and administration, the TİK. What I'm trying to say is, on one hand, we're successful in the management industry. You say, you say, you flip the numbers. Sir, $1.8 billion in agricultural support, now reaching $7.1 billion! For God's sake, don't! So from that day forward, put the manufacturer's input prices on the table. What were the prices of the basic entries that day, today, ten years later, what's the price of fertilizer, what's the price of fuel, what's the price of agricultural medicine, what's the price of electricity?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0063par0085	What are the bait prices?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0061par0086	Put these in the middle. Now there is no crisis in the management sector. There is no crisis in the livestock industry.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0063par0088	Why are you importing it?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0061par0089	Brother, for the first time in the history of Turkey, in your time, did he not import the sacrificial lamb from your government? For three and a half years, there's been trouble in the livestock industry in this country. How many head animals are in Turkey, today's Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism failed to identify them. In 2009, when the first animal crisis broke out, they counted animals in the stables, like a census. They didn't get the count right. So the numbers today are not true. So your production can't feed 74 million. You've failed in your politics. There was a problem with milk production, but Mr. Prime Minister shouldn't be angry with the Minister of Agriculture, he didn't dismiss the Minister of Agriculture. He played with numbers, he submitted the Prime Minister's report to the Prime Minister, and he said: "Don't, Mr. Eker, so you've made me forget about math." Mr. Prime Minister said that, Mr. Prime Minister told the Minister. Now, you're misleading the Prime Minister as if there's nothing wrong with the agriculture industry, of course there's a problem. You've gone, over $5 billion, and you've given me zero interest loans from agricultural bank sources. Is there a transformation? Just recently... they're getting support for dead animals, no audits. You're handing out the money, you're handing out the money you collect from the taxes of your people, citizens, like your own money, we've given you zero interest loans. You're saying, on the other hand, you're looking at billions of dollars, you're not seeing it because you're not doing your job well. Today, the people who move and run the agricultural sector are not competent people. Go to the fields, where the agricultural sector is important, where production is important, you can't see a person who specializes in agriculture in the field. These things don't happen behind a desk. Your minister doesn't work, your bureaucrats don't work, you can't work, you don't have problems. We've given support. It's not about giving support. Your unscheduled, unscheduled support today is causing other problems in tomorrows. Here, the fruit industry is dying, there's trouble in exports, the export incentive is inadequate, the fruit is in the Mediterranean region. Why did he stay? Wrong policies. Ten years ago... ten years ago, you gave me support, give me seedling support. So, where are you going to market these products? Unconscious, unstable, unsustainable, mid-term, short-term, no project. Today's the day, there's trouble. Palatial, we've solved it temporarily. If you can solve it. Now, that's not how this business is run. If the animal industry is still in crisis today, if the plant production industry, the fruit industry or the narcissist sector is still having problems, if the manufacturer is screaming, I guess he's not lying. I can't make money. The manufacturer who says, doesn't lie. Here you go, look at the executive files in the executive offices, what was the nature of this in 2002, today, in 2012, how many times did it go up? Go to tractor galleries, full of used tractors. Now, if the manufacturer's making money, why is he selling these tractors? He sells it to pay off his debt, sells it so his house doesn't have to be repossessed. Now you can save the day today by burying your head in the sand, saying, "There's no problem in this sector." But tomorrow you'll face this again, the last election will not come, the next election will come. Before the election, you open your mouth, a big voter group of farmers, you save a few billion dollars, but you pass on the problems. You've corrupted the farmer's chemistry, you've corrupted the farmer's psychology, so you've corrupted the farmer's chemistry in one sentence, the impact of the problems in the agriculture industry on the farmer. For him, there are problems in this sector, a accurate assessment. The nationalist Movement Party's motion is a correct one, a correct one. So, I say we vote in favor of this motion, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0064par0096	Thank you, Mr. Chosen. Mr. Ibrahim Binici is the last speaker of the National Movement Group's proposal. Mr. Rider, please. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0065par0101	Mr. President, I have taken a solemn pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on behalf of the MHP Group's motion to investigate the problems of agricultural and animal-related producers. On this occasion, I salute your high council. First of all -- you know -- workers on strike in Turkish Airlines are being threatened with dismissal. I condemn the government's attitude with hatred, and demand that the AKP immediately give up its attitude -- if it wants -- respect the work. Again -- and I mentioned it in my off-the-book speech last week -- unfortunately, the AKP's operations in the name of political genocide continue in our case. Again, for two days, 29 people have been in custody, including three deputy mayors, city councilmen, members of the BDP, and executives of our party... please, we're asking you to take your dirty hands off our clean policy. I'm telling you, that's enough. You know, there's no doubt that human rights and needs are the right to feed. A right that is indispensable to the continuation of human life will bring with it a healthy life, therefore healthy generations, if it is used within the framework of healthy dietary criteria. At the top of the criteria for healthy food, adequate and balanced nutrition comes. The production of animal products is indispensable to adequate and balanced nutrition, as well as a very important economic activity. Animal production and animal production are especially important in reducing open and secret unemployment in the rural area. It also has a very important socioeconomic function, such as reducing and preventing human migration and social problems resulting in this aspect. The industry contributes to stable development by providing raw materials for the branches of meat, milk, textiles, skin, cosmetics, and pharmaceuticals, as well as foreign exchange revenues through exports. In addition, it has a significant value in human life and the country's economy because of the assessment of unpleasable plants and plant wastes as human food. As our country's animalism has declined, the price of meat has also proved to be increasing rapidly in recent years. EU consumers pay 4-5 dollars per kilo of red meat, US consumers pay 2-3 dollars, while consumers pay 16-17 dollars. One of the key criteria for determining the level of development of countries today is the amount of animal products consumed per person. In European countries, the consumption of red meat per capita has dropped at 75 kilograms, while in our country, it has dropped below 8 kilograms. In the end, the shallow and unpredictable agricultural and animalism policies adopted by the AKP's government have been transformed into particularly high-end consumption of meat. Since the founding of the Republic, there has been a constant development in our animalism, and the removal of animal production and animal production by the January 24, 1980 Decisions has been a major blow to our animalism. The second major blow to our livestock was the privatisation of agricultural companies such as the Meat and Fish Foundation, the Milk Industry Foundation and Bait Industries. Another important factor in the decline of animalism is the rapid destruction of the mera. In 1940, 44 million hectares of meadows were reduced to 12 million hectares today. Although nearly half the current mera areas are in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian region, the restrictions imposed on security grounds are largely harmful to the region and country's animalism. In these areas, where livestock is the primary source of livelihood, intense migration is taking place, and people are being thrown into the slums of the great cities, pulling them out of the land where they were born and raised. One of the most important factors in the decline of our animalism is the price of bait that determines the cost by 70 to 80 percent. Bait prices have increased by 50-60 per cent in a year. If this increase in bait prices can't be prevented, the output in the sector has been inescapable, and Turkey has become an unknown meat paradise. Between 1983 and 1990, an average of 2 to 2.7 million head animals per year were officially exported from Turkey to Middle Eastern countries. This close market, which we had 15 years ago, is now in the hands of Australia, the EU and the United States. Our population, 44.5 million in 1980, is 72.5 million today. According to TÜİK data, at the same time, large animals were reduced from 16.9 million to 10.9 million, while small animals were reduced from 67.6 million to 29.5 million. (x) In this chapter, non-English words were expressed by the Hajip. The policies that have been implemented and implemented have brought our animalism to an end, as it has been explained that the decline in the number of animals that have been seen in recent years and the rise in meat prices should be quickly resolved. With this data, I have made a pledge in favour of the motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0066par0113	Mr. President, Mr. Orator has spoken harsh words to our group, and I would like to answer with your political genocide and your dirty hands.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0067par0114	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Two minutes, please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0068par0117	Don't you do it or don't you? You'll get 20 to 25 people a week, not political genocide!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0067par0119	Please, please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0069par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said when I asked, Mr. Speaker says in his speech, we've committed political genocide against our group, and we have dirty hands, and we must remove our dirty hands from their clean politics. I'm asking this person, who's doing clean politics, is there a Pinarbas in your clean politics?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0070par0124	What does BDP have to do with it now?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0069par0125	Do you have Hantepe, Gediktepe, Actum, Mountainese in your clean politics? In your sense of pure politics, do you have to shoot a man in the back? Explain this to me. Is there a kidnapping in your politics, in your clean politics? Are there massacres in your clean politics, in your bus stops, in your very defense -- in your nails -- on our working people?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0071par0126	The workers are hungry today, hungry...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0069par0127	Your clean policy is to corrupt politics using words that aren't used under the roof of this House, right? I do. But our politics are a clean policy, and we're doing a clean policy. From now on, please watch your language. Talk about which group you address.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0072par0129	Where's the clean policy called a lie?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0069par0130	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0073par0132	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0074par0135	We want roll call, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0073par0136	Mr. Tüyük, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Özdemir, Mr. Özsüşmiş, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Şeşer, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Topal, Mr. Cihan, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Öz, Mr. Bulutça, Mr. Oran, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Godkulu. Congressmans, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. 29.05.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups at the Council's meeting Tuesday (June 29,05,2012), I respectfully submit our group's proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. Ankara MP Izzet Cet and his friends suggested that the Turkish Parliament be read to the Grand National Assembly on 08,03,2012 in the same session of the Council of Assembly for the purpose of "researching the problems of the Unional organisations and determining the solutions" and that other proposals will be presented to the General Assembly's information on Tuesday (29.05.2012). Ankara MP Izzet Çetin on the Republican People's Party Group proposal. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0075par0157	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, it's a fact that the unions have lost blood in recent years. So I made a commitment in favor of the motion that I made to investigate the reasons, the consequences, and what it would take to strengthen the union, which is the indispensable institutions of democracy, in our country. I salute you all. Dear friends, I'm very pleased that this motion I've submitted has been brought to Parliament today as a recommendation from the Council of Counsellors, because it's probably a good thing that this matter is being discussed on a day when attacks have been raised at the deepest point, but it's a great benefit for our AKP MP friends to listen to the matter, as they have just been in Turkey... Mr. President, would you stop humming?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0076par0160	Mr. President, there's too much noise, we can't hear.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0077par0161	Guys, let's keep it down, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0078par0163	Dear friends, look, today Turkey has 75 million people -- I'm telling you by the figure of our Labour Minister -- 567,000 employees benefit from the collective contract. On September 12, 1980, there were 44 million people, and 2.5 million workers took advantage of collective contracts and unionism. At that time, the officers' unions may not have been legally available, but today officers were organized in eight confederate unions, but even though 45 percent were organized in trade unions, which are your allies, the number of union workers in a country of 1 million or 75 million people, the number of workers, the number of employees and employees, is 1.5 million. This is a disgrace to the democracy of our country. In your period, labor unions have lost 40 per cent in the last decade. Now today, we made this motion to investigate, and we said, "Why is he losing blood?" By order of your Ministry of Air Employee, by order of your government, by order of the Prime Minister, you have handed the law proposal to our friends, who had nothing to do with working with the Unions Act. Today, air workers have joined forces against the danger of losing their jobs and are acting legitimately. I congratulate them from the bottom of my heart for resisting the tyranny of the AKP. My dear friends, you're really talking about September 12th law, you're talking about September 12th law, you're talking about getting even with September 12th. What you're dealing with is workers, officers. The raise you saw against the officers was 3.5-4, and the second year was 3, 3%. Today, the People's Officers Referee Board -- which, in September 12th, I told you from here, would function as the High Referee Board, which destroyed the rights and freedoms of workers -- has made its decisions today -- 4 to 4 percent. Good luck to your ally, Officer-Sen, and to you, but there's no way you can tell the country, the officer, the employee. Today, in our country, the union area has narrowed as far as it can. In this period of September 12th, we see examples of the collective pain of the legal arrangements, of the intense, of your time. Look, I'm here to address the president of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: you may not like work, Health, Family, Social Affairs Commission. I'm speaking to the Minister of Labor: Take care of your own responsibilities. Work, Health, Family, Social Affairs Commission, I'm speaking to the President: Take care of your commission. What does it have to do with -- with the Internal Affairs Commission -- the air-work union's proposal to ban the right to strike has to be discussed in the Interior Commission? Isn't that a union ban? Earlier, the Parliament Speaker had appointed and discussed the Budget and Plan Commission as the main commission for Public Workers' Unions Law 4688. He does not properly commit his duties to the commissions to make legal arrangements in parliament, nor is he able to serve properly in the capture of the national will. He's a complete failure; he's trying to follow the Prime Minister's instructions. Dear friends, this ban on strike in the air business was essentially part of your collective business plan. Seven of your ministers didn't sign that bill. Again and again, who are the ministers who didn't sign that bill? On what grounds didn't they sign it? What institution, what organization did they not sign with? We need to find him out, and for that, we need to set up a commission. Before September 12th in this country, the sovereign circles had broken the government with a newspaper ad. Now they're violating the law by not having AKP ministers sign it. You hold a law within it today, and as an offer, you're going to bring it to the Parliament's agenda as a pirate in the Internal Affairs Commission. So we're making a motion to the House, and we're saying, why are the unions getting nervous, why are they getting nervous; let's come and investigate, let's set up a commission. Well, he's guilty as charged. The existing organization is disappearing. For one thing, the Air-Work Union has not been on strike for over 20 years... in any kind of strike by the Council of Ministers. Even if the strike is decided, the Council of Ministers has the authority to postpone it. After postponing the Council of Ministers, the initiative is already out of the union, the High Referee Board is in place, it is binding the contract. What does that have to do with this forbidden mentality? So doing what even fascist generals didn't do on September 12th today is nothing more than the result of a more dictatorial understanding than the generals. I strongly condemn it. Dear friends, true union rights and freedoms are one. It has freedom to organize, freedom of collective contract, right to strike and freedom. If you separate one of these freedoms from the other in the field of collective business law, they will be crippled, lame, and therefore no progress in the union field. Today, the real measure of the democratisation of countries, the level of growth in their democracies, is measured by organisation in many places in that country. In our country, we play democracy. A prime minister is capable of everything, and his last profession became a gynecologist. Instead of dealing with them, he'd have to expand this area instead of offering a pirate law to come and take away the rights and freedoms of the unions. We're going to enter the European Union. We're deceiving each other. With that logic, with that attitude, you can't recruit Turkey into a association beyond Edirne, let alone the European Union. Get some fucking sense out of your heads. Union field is no place to be afraid. Unions lead the most important institutions in this country. Workers face the fear of being fired. As soon as you came into office, you turned the job security into a bird, raising 30 and more workers from businesses employed by 10 and more workers to businesses employed. Today, workers are afraid to join unions, even officers are afraid to become members. To seek rights in any way means to commit a crime. The critic is either being sent to Silivri, or an investigation is being launched. Dear friends, really, in our country, if we're going to strengthen our democracy, if we're going to expand collective contracts and union rights, we have to care about unions. The unions took on a heavy responsibility during this country's crisis. Although they had no presumption on them, they almost voluntarily suspended collective contracts in businesses to overcome the crisis, they shared responsibility, but now they realize that they're paying for their consent to overcome those crises. Of course, they haven't shown you where to bill this fine yet, but I hope they'll show you next time. My dear friends, we have made a motion to investigate the reasons for the decline in union organisation in our country, the reasons for its actions, the criminals, and I find a great benefit in investigating a commission as a result of this motion. I specifically ask you to stop threatening workers, threatening members of the Air-Business, desecrating actions, respecting their legitimate actions. I salute the High Council. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0079par0178	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. The second speaker of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is Mr. Ertugrul Kürkçı, MP of Mersin. Here you go, Mr. Furcier.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0080par0181	Mr. President, dear friends, I feel it is unnecessary to mention that it is absolutely necessary to refer to him as. In fact, to make this motion of research perhaps even deeper, there may be some flaws in it, but I don't think that's the point. Now, number one: tomorrow is May 30th. On May 30, 1937, an unarmed worker working at the Republic Steel factory on the United States of America was attacked by police and killed by police, and nine of the 28 workers who were beaten and injured were permanently paralyzed. The union struggle has come today through such harsh conditions, both in the most advanced capitalist countries in the world and in the rest of the country. Today, however, trade unions are constantly losing members, losing blood, shaping work life in Turkey -- as it is written in the basis of the obvious research proposal. When I was eighteen years old, there were over 1 million workers in Turkey with union, collective rights. After all these years, forty-six years, there are 600,000 workers in Turkey today who have the authority to sign a union contract. Turkey's population increased by more than two stories compared to that day. In this case, there is indeed a situation worthy of research because the existence and width of trade unions actually gives an idea of the extent of the area of political rights and freedoms in one country, because freedom today means freedom from the company; the more restricted the area of ownership of the company is, the more freedom there is for the rest of the people. So few unions, then, keep us -- the second half of the 1960s -- much further back in terms of freedoms than in the early 70s; this is clear, there is no hiding part of it. So, this research should be viewed not only as a union-rights investigation, union-wideness, generic research, but also as a freedom study. Last year, in 2011, banks, banks alone, made a total of 20 billion Turkish liras. The workers' wages increased only 6 per cent from the previous year, the average labor fee; but this was for union workers and regular workers, while the rest declined the real wages of about 20 million people working without unions and irregulars. In this case, the government's measures have been countered dramatically, while in Turkey, the growth of freedom and prosperity depends on how to develop and strengthen open labour rights. We have a bill of amendments ahead of us. One more sentence is added to Article 29 of Article 29 of Article 2822 - Article 6 of Article 6 - and there is also a strike ban on aviation services. Look, guys, what business arm had a strike ban? Health and safety of life and property, funeral and taffin; gas, lignite and sair mining and gas extraction for energy and petrochemisty; bank and notary services, transport, land and railways -- on buses, trams, run by the public. Now you add aviation to that. I'd like to ask you how you can get freedom out of such a law that has been imposed on you with so many strike bans. But I'm very clear that this strike, which the Turkish Airways workers in the aviation business are engaged in, is a very important start, not just in Turkish Airlines, but in fact, in front of workers in private airlines working on slave wages, laborers in freedom, salvation, self-fighting. With all our hearts, with all our souls, with all our strength, we announce that we are with Turkish Airlines employees. The Prime Minister -- since it was published in the Vatan newspaper of October 20, 2011 -- said to lawmakers who attended this after the meeting in Kızılcahamamamam: (The following period during the new constitutional amendment:) Let there be no political strike, lockavt, solidarity strike, general strike, slowdown and resistance bans in the constitution. But what we see in the practical process is that the workers of Turkish Airlines are being laid off from their jobs today. What are they doing? In fact, don't slow it down for solidarity. They're not actually on strike. Not one example, not two, but when you try to investigate, the research finds you on its own. Fifty-two workers serving as workers for subcontractors Net Energy and Crown Electricity companies, who worked at the Adana Province Directorate of the Toroslar Electrication Corporation, did not go to work because their wages were not paid. Starting from the day of paying the fee, the laborer who has not been paid in twenty days can avoid fulfilling his labour debt, but for no apparent reason, and they did not go to work on the basis of his decree, and they were fired from their jobs, and they are now in the resistance. However, the government, which made these assurances in direct truth, had to defend the rights of these workers, should have been his Ministry of Labor. You all know, dear friends, in his speech in the group today, the Prime Minister accused our party and his politics of treason, one of the worst words that can be used in politics. In fact, when I looked at what it meant, what it meant, what it meant, what it meant was this is the dictionary's equivalent, the one that failed to keep its promise and failed to do so. Did we promise to accompany the Justice and Development Party's policy to solve the Kurdish problem? We offered him a walk in common? We should follow the politics of freedom to his difficult politics. When we did not respond, did we say that we would share in his difficult politics? Did we say that we would not interfere with the investigation of the Justice and Development Party, such as the massacre in Roboski, that we would be directly involved in taking the people responsible for the massacre here, but that we did not, or did we not return to us from this. Did we not submit to the government's warnings? That doesn't make us traitors, dear friends. And those who are true to their word, and who fight according to theirs, and are well-pleased with the consequences thereof, and who do not burden themselves with it, and who do not call upon anyone. Therefore, it must belong to its owner, just as it is for all the evil words, because I would like to ask those who have called on workers to a constitutional amendment with the promise of greater freedom, who have said that the right to collective contract and strike here would expand their borders; who have said there would be no political strike, no support strike, no general strike, no resistance ban; who now have imposed workers in the city squares all over Turkey, now in the air-work office, and in the service of aviation, I would like to ask them where they stand in response to this dictionary. We do what we say. We're not the government. We're not running anyone's politics. We're totally against that politics. Honestly, we're clearly saying that if you go this way, you'll lead both Turkey and yourself to disaster. Are you calling us traitors? Turn around first and look in the mirror.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0081par0195	Thank you, Mr. Furcier. In favour of the third speaker on the Republican People's Party Group, Mr Mehmet Günal, MP of Antalya. Here you go, Mr. Günal.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0082par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. Dear friends, we are now discussing a proposal for unionisation and union organization. I just asked friends from the Internet. I'm telling you the headlines of the last two stories: the officer's increase has been established. Despite objections, 4+4. The following article says that Turkish Airlines immediately kicked 150 employees out. You know, there's work on this, about the strike. There is now a ban on that strike, and another clause that was previously rejected by the Family, Labour Commission has been imposed within the law that we will discuss today. Now, I'm talking about two hot agendas, two examples that show completely ununion and non-unionation of the union. First of all, I just told you about the workers. Dear friends, on the one hand, without the new constitution, we can't even reach the target of 2023. It says, "On the one hand, we'll give you all your rights as the constitutional amendment comes out, on the other hand, a collective contract with a strike. You're trying to ban a sector with a strike. I've just seen the news again, Mr. Yıldırım - Minister of Transport, Minister of Communications - what did he say about the strike? I see, it says: "Greeving is a search for rights, but it must be the last resort." Good. We need to find out if the legal infrastructure for this matter is complete. It says: "It would not be humane to use our power, our authority, to make people miserable and victimized. We expect this to end in that way. Is it right for the Turkish Airlines to strike because you're calling the men who are going to strike, and we're taking you out on the phone? And how do you allow them to be removed from the scope of the strike? Mr. Minister says, "Look, Turkish Airlines is a private organization, so we're not in public contract negotiations between Turkish Airlines and the union." We don't have to be. But if this problem reaches the point where it will destroy the citizen, if it does not be resolved soon, we will not hesitate to take the necessary steps to take it in some way. What's it to you? Turkish Airlines is a public institution? There's only half of it right now. If it's so strategic, why privatize it? Or if it's not strategic, I don't understand what the strike there has to do with you. So why are you interfering, and why do you feel the need to intervene through the law as long as there's a collective contract meeting between the employee and the employer? How is that freedom? We'll talk about international contracts when it suits us, and when it suits us, we'll talk about European Union norms, and when it doesn't work out for us, let's take out a clause, solve it with a law clause, that's not going to happen, my dear friends. The ILO Convention talks about the right to strike here, which is part of the collective contract that you don't give to public employees, civil servants. Come on, you didn't give it to him, so why are you trying to take back the strike you gave the worker? How will the worker who has been removed from the strike get a collective contract, and how can he force his employer to increase his salary? There's already been a compromise, as a result. There's an arbitration committee there, and when something happens, they go there, just as they're for public employees. It's not right to interfere with these through the public, dear friends. One of the most fundamental things in the concept of human rights is the right to organize, and the union is a form of organization. So, come, on the one hand, we offer freedoms, and when you say, "Stop restricting these freedoms." Well, on the other hand, we see the same thing about officers. Now, he's out today, and he's obviously 4+4, but at least at the last minute, he's out at the last minute when the Chief Justice puts his weight on him, or was he going out like that, how would he get out? When we passed this law, what difference does it make if the government determines the weight of bureaucracy in this panel of referees, whether you're in a collective agreement, whether you're in a collective meeting, or you're giving a direct officer raise, there's no point, there's no need to confuse ourselves. There are serious problems going on here, and the decision that is now being made is 4+4! So, what did the officers want? So the request of Officer-Sen, including Officer-Sen, was 7.5+7.5,5,5, which was close to power, especially protected, favoured. Now, where's four where seven and a half? They're halfway there. When you look at three months of inflation, it's already over three. So, how do we make it up to him? There's no benefit. Who does your record growth work for? Don't you need to give some of this to the officer? So, when we look at the inflation expectations of the current Central Bank, 7-8, is it going to be optimistic, is it? It will be. I thought we were gonna give it to the officer as soon as possible. Is it June yet? He's here. They still don't know the difference. The difference we're going to make is that even inflation is not making up for it right now. Let's give it again. Instead of giving it again, it's already June, so at least keep the first six months a little higher so it can make up for this inflation. And they get it wrong, my dear friends, that's how our ministers explain it, but it's not 3,5+3.5=7. Look, your friends have computers, they have machines, they have to do an account, put 3.5, put it on top of 100 in the first month, give it six months, then you can put it back to 3.5 percent, it doesn't add up to 7, it doesn't make 5.0 or so. And what happens if inflation is 78% when you get the average yearly? Which it won't, but we're optimistic. The officer will be crushed by inflation. So, even if you're at least here, if you're not giving the welfare share, we have to at least consider the current state of inflation and give the officer what he deserves, considering the progress ahead. Now, as we just said in the Turkish Airlines strike, Mr. Bululi Yıldırım said, but we will intervene directly here; this is within the law proposal that comes after the group's proposals are discussed, which has not occurred to anyone in 30 years -- the latest changed in 1988 -- to put a strike ban on the airlines! There was only one Turkish Airlines, and he's out, and he's already turned half over to an associate called AnadoluJet, and he's handed over the other half to another associate called Borajet, completely -- there's only a certain share of the public -- but let's ban it. What do you do on the other side? You're doing the same kind of indirect pressure again after the government's employees left work during the past week. Now, there's something else in the news again: Our Turkish Health-Sen president from Gaziantep is making a statement about the health workers doing the layoff, where the managers are investigating. So, union rights, what's he gonna do? So the State has a decision on this, and there are decisions made about the union rights of the layoffs. You're looking this way, what are you doing? Indirectly, the pressure to investigate that officer. So? You've already been working as a yellow unionist on one side; we understand that you're putting pressure on and resigning; you're resigning at the same time, you're resigning at the same time -- you're getting more frequent now -- because you're about two weeks from now, when you get union licenses, you're going to go to an administrative investigation into those officers who are doing a job drop-off. It's really all very important stuff. Of course, it is not possible for my dear friends to talk about working peace, to talk about compromises on certain issues, in such an approach. To give up these pressures immediately is to give public employees the right to strike first, and not to interfere with the end of the collective contract negotiations in that sector without preventing our employees from fulfilling their right to strike, as well as the right to strike. Hopefully, you haven't given the officers their rights as a raise right now, but I wish you'd at least give them their strike rights and get them what they deserve for their next work. I don't have much hope, but I'm going to have to keep going over and over and over again, and these matters need to be investigated. In this framework, it says we're in favor of the proposal, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0083par0215	Thank you, Mr. Günal. The last speaker on the Republican People's Party group proposal is Şanlıurfa MP Mr. Mahmut Kozar. Mr. Runar, please.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0084par0219	Mr. President, honorable MPs, I have made a pledge against the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear friends, the rights of workers against authority are one of the basic human rights to be given the rights of labor and its sanctity, in this context, the right to organize amongst themselves. In this sense, unions are the most important tools for employees to use the right to organize. We, the EC PARTY, are not a political staff that evaluates Turkey's democratisation, apart from the democratisation of working life. Turkey's democratisation and normalisation in all areas is possible, above all, with steps to maintain the right to labour and democratisation in this sense. In every period of Turkey's impact and extraordinary circumstances, the workers paid the highest price in this country, as our nation has paid the price. In parallel with the economic recession in Turkey at the time of the coup, there is a decline in the rights taken by workers in Turkey, while it is possible to see that there is a serious return in terms of their legal rights, as well as in all times. As the government, which has centralised Turkey's democratisation in all areas, there has been a crucial stance since 2002, as well as in labour unionism, as well as in civil servant unionism, at the point of changing laws that are coup-based. Now, our dear friends here have had some assessments of civil unionism, civil servants' right to a collective contract, and in this sense, the figures explained by the Referee Board as of today. The issue of the dam, unfortunately, was brought to the officers' unions today, especially as the most important criticism of labour unions, including the Republican People's Party, who are now recommending the establishment of this research commission, in 2001. In 2004, one of the most important arrangements that the EC PARTI had made in this sense was the removal of the 5 per cent threshold for civil servants' unions. You know, there was a 5 per cent threshold in the Law on Public Meetings, which did not exceed the 5 per cent threshold -- which you took out -- to give civil servants collective agreements -- to the government's will for the last word on the economic and the rights of equity -- for the union to get dues. The obstruction of another important working life was that officers were forced to leave the unions -- withdrawal and resignations -- as they are now in labor unions, notary conditions, to return the resignation form to the resigning union and be committed when it was resigned. Now, while we're being criticized, it's good to see and remember what happens when the laws that you've made in your day force the workers to do what they do and what happens as a result. Right now...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0085par0225	Look at what you've brought in, you can't side with the people of our time.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0084par0226	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0085par0227	Remember 274, 275.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0084par0228	Dear friends...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0085par0229	You're not old enough for him!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0084par0230	Look, I listened to you with respect. You can rule it out, you may not join us, but you don't have to push the boundaries of respect. Dear friends, today, the officers have the right to a collective contract, along with the legal arrangement in parallel with the amendment we've made. Today, officers have collective agreements on the general issues and, as well as the service branch on the service branches, collective contract authority. Today, there may have been no agreement on the general collective agreement, but this year's collective agreement on the service arm has been signed with more than 50 articles of service in terms of the economic and autonomy rights of employees. I'm talking about these two collective contracts. At the moment, laws 2821 and 2822, which you repeatedly criticised for labor unionism, which you call September 12th, were again brought to the attention during the AK PARTI rule.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0085par0232	It gets worse, it gets worse.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0084par0233	Wait a second... Bills on laws 2821 and 2822, which are now on the agenda of the House...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0085par0235	Not even the generals.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0084par0236	... the law of collective business relations, which has been simplified, simplified, and has been taken to the centre of international contracts signed by ILO (ILO) and Turkey, and has now been adopted by the Health, Family, Labour Commission. Together with this legal arrangement, we will now avoid sanctions imposed by the coup product of September 12th in Turkey over the years related to labour unionism, and on the other hand, with Turkey's collective business relations law, we will change many issues that have been under notarming employees for many years. Dear friends, how do I think we can contribute to such matters? We, the EC PARTY Power, are a political staff that has earned collective agreements for all employees, including collective agreements, collective agreements, service agreements, and the local collective agreement. Since 2821 and 2822, we have changed many issues in the ILO, in the European Union Commission, and in the European Union's progress reports today in Turkey's commissions, and hopefully, by enforcing them in Parliament as soon as possible, we will take a very important step in that sense. As I said at the outset, we are one of the most important conditions for Turkey's democratisation, a political force that believes that the right to labour should be maintained, that the employee should receive a fee worthy of human dignity, and in that sense, Turkey has union rights in accordance with the European Union norms, in accordance with the ILO norms, in this context. With this approach, I express my opposition to this motion of investigation, and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0086par0241	Thank you, Mr. Runar.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0087par0242	What should we do with the THY strike, where should we place it?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0088par0245	Roll call...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0086par0246	Roll call... Mr. Dibek, Mr. Tüyük, Mr. Cetin, Mr. Agha, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Öz, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Türeli, Mr. Sun, Mr. Light, Mr. Elector, Mr. Ater, Mr. Ozturk. Now, we're gonna do an electronic roll call, and I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the group proposal is not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at the advisory board's meeting on Tuesday (June 29,05,2012), I would like to ask that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval, under Article 19 of the Council. AK PARTY Group Deputy President Within 48 hours of the 259 and 258 draft proposals and proposals distributed under pressure, the agenda's "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" will take place in the 3rd and 4th place, respectively, and the 259th ranking of the law bill in this section, and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this order. (11/12) The General Assembly's proposal for the primary geneorization shall be taken into consideration on Wednesday (June 6, 2012) in the same day's merger of talks on whether the Constitution will be brought up under Article 99, The elections for the Court's membership will be held in the General Assembly's Union Tuesday (March 5, 2006,2012), On Tuesday, May 29, 2012, it was 23 p.m. Until 00 p.m., On Wednesday, May 30, 2012, until the meeting of the 249th draft law, until the meeting of the talks; Until Thursday, May 31st, 2012, when the talks were finalized on the 10th-line bill; On Friday, June 1, 2012, Friday (June 1st, 2012), when the talks of Bill Number 10 cannot be completed in the merger Thursday (May 31st 2012). Until the meeting at 00 p.m., and the completion of negotiations on the 10th row bill, which included "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" in this merger; It's 24 a.m. in the above-species combinations. At 00 a.m., if the daily schedules are incomplete, the daily schedules will be completed; Keep up the good work, It's the 91th Amendment of the 258th row bill. In accordance with the article, it is considered the basic law, and its sections are in the following form of the ruler; It's recommended. Changes in Laws and Laws About the Collection of Amme Acquisitions [[l/611]] CHAPTERS CHAPTER MADDE IN THE CHAPTER 1. Episode 1 to 25 Articles 25 2. CHAPTER 26 - 44 (Temporary 1st, including 1st article) 20 On the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first speaker in favour is Mr. Kurıkkale MP Mr. Ramazan Can. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0089par0290	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. In our group's proposal, we offer 259, 258, and 249 of the law proposals and proposals, respectively, to the 3rd and 4th and 5th place of the agenda, to the compliments of the General Assembly. May 29, 2012, which means today, Tuesday, the 23rd General Assembly. We're offering to run it until 00. On Wednesday (May 30, 2012), we propose that the General Assembly work until the meeting of the draft law on the signing of a debt-deletion agreement between the Republic of Turkey and Kyrgyzistan is completed. On Thursday (May 31st 2012), there is an international law on opening new border crossings between Iran and our country, which we intend to run the General Assembly until the negotiations of this law are completed. On the other hand, if the meeting of the international contract signed between us and Iran is not complete, the negotiations with that bill will not be completed by Friday at 14 p.m. of the General Assembly. We recommend that it be opened at 00, and that the General Assembly be employed until the meeting of this law is concluded. On Wednesday (June 6th 2012), we plan to discuss the geneorization given against our Foreign Minister, Mr. Ahmet Davutoglu. On Tuesday (June 5, 2012), we plan to elect a member of the Court -- the next week. As for İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk and his two friends, a proposal for the law on piracy and the strike ban comes to the attention of the law, which includes the proposal of the Highways Traffic Act 2918, Article 2822, Group Business Convention on Strike and Lockavt Law 5393, Law on Financial Rental Law 3226, a significant amendment to a significant part of our community. We present the bill of 258 rows to the General Assembly's agenda less than 48 hours later. In this law, which will be discussed as the basic law, the Law on the Collectives of Amme Acquisitions... you know, there was a new process of restructuring debt in the Law on the Collectives of Amme. He will be given a new four-month period of relief. On the other hand, there are regulations in the system of incentives that will regulate tax justice. And this bill is bringing him in. In the 249th draft law, there is a legal arrangement for the removal of debts signed between the Republic of Turkey and Kyrgyzistan. The international contract, the bill that this is also acceptable, will be brought up here. Except today, it's 24 o'clock. We're thinking of running the Parliamentary General Assembly until 00. If 24. If the agenda is not completed at 00, we recommend that the work be continued. Of course, it's subject to the discretion of the General Assembly. I hope the General Assembly will vote in favor of our group proposal, so I hereby salute the General Assembly again.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0090par0304	Thank you, Mr. Can. Second speaker, on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, Yalova MP Muharrem İnce. Here you go, Mr. Slim.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0091par0308	Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute you all. The work schedule, we're going to work until now, we're going to work this day. The truth is, I don't take it very seriously anymore because I know it's not going to work. So you're going to work in July. The age of retirement is going to be 40. So it does not concern the Speaker or you what is to be discussed or discussed in this House. So the teachers get $1,600 for fifteen hours of lessons, and that's not enough for you? The teachers sent me 176 extracurricular activities. They said, "Read this from that bench and let the Prime Minister hear it." There are 176 other activities besides planning, day-to-day planning, keeping watch, meetings on weekends, social club work outside of school hours, guidance studies, breaking up fighting students, holding custody meetings, such as classes, so they're not the same as officers. A Prime Minister who doesn't even know that, unfortunately, taught teachers. The doctors said something, Mr. Prime Minister. They didn't even know how to give injections. He said, "They're going to say something, they're going to say something, they're going to say something, they're going to say something, they're going to say something, they're going to say something, they're going to say something. Where will we cross the third bridge in such an environment, in a country ruled by a Prime Minister who knows everything? When we said, "The Prime Minister got on the helicopter, took a turn over the Bosphorus Bridge." He said, "Let's go over there." Are you a geophysicist, an architect, an engineer, where'd you get this, you said you'd cross the bridge? He became an engineer there, when the term of office of the presidency was debated. He said, "This much." He became a lawyer there, and eventually became a gynecologist. We're dealing with a Prime Minister who understands all professions. My dear friends, I knew the Prime Minister had taken off his national eye shirt, but I didn't know he was taking off his strike spokesman shirt. Look, in his years of opposition in the past, when he wasn't Prime Minister, he went to the strike workers and put on his strike spokesman's shirt. But we're looking at it today, and you're going to take some wisdom out of the Prime Minister's law that forbids this strike with your votes, and you're going to say, "There's something he knows." So when you're trying to stop a pirate cab, you're breaking a strike as a pirate in the law about a pirate cab, and you're banning the strike. I thought you were going to strike at that September 12th referendum of yours, which, if I'm not mistaken, you wrote in Article 23 of those 40 articles, in the middle of your glorious pamphlets. Look at what Turkey's become. In Hopa, people died of pepper spray, Ankara was poisoned, and only yesterday it happened in Yalova: a boy, a thirty-year-old boy, there is a fight among them, not a big incident, not an act, I am an asthmatic, he says to me, don't gas the boy. Now the doctors are being pressured at the hospital to change the report. My dear friends, I was in the Black Sea again recently, and I would like to explain a view I saw there to the Prime Minister of Rizeli. In 1937, the Tea Law was passed in our country. You know, the one time she didn't like the party? That's when she was right. In 1937, the Tea Law was passed, and in 1938, the first tea product was acquired. In 1940, the Agriculture Bank gave interest-free loans to the tea makers for five years. It happened when he didn't like it. While World War II, Europe was on fire, while Hitler's armies were shaking Europe, the Republican People's Party, which ruled the Republic of Turkey, during the period of Ismet Pasha, gave interest-free loans to Ziraat's Teamaker for five years. Why am I telling you these dates? Not much, but in 2002, Mr. Prime Minister -- then President of the AKP -- the price of tea should be 750 lira -- which is now 75 cents. He says, in 2002. Today, ten years passed, the private sector buys tea for 60 cents, 80 cents, makes quotas, and unfortunately, 2012 is further behind the 1940s.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0092par0316	How much does the government charge?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0091par0317	My dear friends, the state of this country is truly pathetic. The Lighthouse is not being questioned; prosecutors investigating the Lighthouse are being tried, journalists expressing allegations. We're going to discuss a law today, and you're going to say... you're going to block the strike rights. He's become the Speaker of the Houses. The Parliament Speaker invites the group's deputy leader of three opposition parties, says he wants to make an attempt on arrested MPs, then bumps into AKP MYK. Now, the Speaker says I've done my best. The existing law, the Constitution, the legislation is not appropriate. Shall I lie down on a fast of death and go on a hunger strike? Now, no one's asking Mr. President to fast for death, but Mr. President, let's get him out of a fast for justice, democracy and freedom. (CHP) So when you're making this initiative, those Constitutions, those laws, those regulations, they're obvious, aren't they? So when I look at the former political life of the Speaker of Parliament, let there be no curfews imposed by Ozal, which you praised so much, by the democratic Ozal. A Cemil Cicek, who says, "Yes, there must be bans on the campaign." I think it's naive to expect them to come and serve here, to save the honor of eight MPs from Cemil Cicek, who say, "The curfews must continue." Members of the MPs, the arrested MPs and... I mean, in the past, the Kenan Even would have had MPs vetoed by the 12th of September Pasha; there were lawmakers vetoed by Kenan Pasha in the past, and now there are MPs vetoed by Recep Erdogan. Kenan Evren and Recep Erdogan are the same person, logic is the same logic. He vetoed the candidates for the 12th of September, and today, Mr. Prime Minister, that's not possible. When Cemil Cicek says that, suddenly, he forgets that he's in charge of the House of Parliament, and all of a sudden, you're looking at him... Not in his own way, see, he's very good at his own business. For example, he made his son a member of the Tekel Governing Body, and when Tekel was sold, he made him a member of the EPDK Board. He's very good at this, he doesn't waste any time, but when he comes to the petty officers, when he comes to the chiefs of staff, when he comes to the officers, he doesn't speak at all. Congressmans, another issue is that the last two months, every Tuesday meetings in this country have been burned down, the mosque has been destroyed, the mosque has been built. A prime minister, who will probably be very embarrassed in his last talks, will be very embarrassed when the documents come out, and I've seen it today, but the Prime Minister may have forgotten. I'm going to come to this stand and show you all how an AKP-based municipality has destroyed the mosque. You'll all see that, too.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0093par0322	He must have torn it down to do better.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0094par0323	To make a new one.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0091par0324	As for them, to build a new one. Now, look, he's saying...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0095par0326	To make a new one.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0091par0327	But you... look, Ismet Pasha loaded the mosques with weapons, loaded the weapons to defend the country; you destroyed the mosques to build a business center, to build a mall.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0096par0328	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0097par0329	You can't.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0091par0330	I say, that's the difference between us, and I respect you all.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0098par0332	Thank you, Mr. Slim. The third speaker on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group is Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP; he is on his side.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0099par0335	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We're fulfilling a pattern, but we've spent about four hours fulfilling it. Dear friends, as we always say, indeed, the right to determine the agenda of the House is in power, it is in the ruling group, but it is not possible to accept that it is variable, that it is constantly changed. Again, we criticize it every time. As the end of the semester approaches the end of the year, there is a panic about it. With the experience of past years, the holiday has been approached again, and on July 1st, our House will be on vacation under the Civil Code, and the General Assembly, the commissions, will have a stack of law proposals and bills. So, now, let's say, the period of labor begins, until the end of time, the method of education has come to our door. Now it shall be till the morning, and the government, and the ministers, shall seek to be removed from this place. I have a month to talk to Madam President of the Group yesterday, so we have a month ahead of us. In this month, put in front of us a list of laws that the government sees as urgent and requires to be passed, and we'll work on it. As a result, I said, let's really compromise and contribute to the establishment of the laws that we feel are necessary. Let's help. But it's the first day of the week, so, there's no compromise that the group has proposed that the agenda that the ruling group has brought to us today will fail again, so you won't be able to implement the program you brought in yourself. The way to do that is to compromise with the opposition, to agree to what is possible, to be put in front of us in a program that is possible. That's why I'm telling you, dear friends, a controversial process is coming our way again. I'd like to bring this to your attention. But after all, it's the method, the method, the procedure... it's the chore. It's not appropriate to impose law against universal law and law against this Parliament, which is a crime according to our Constitution, against these MPs... because it doesn't suit you. Dear friends, look, if you don't agree with the opposition, what the opposition is going to do is that by using the resources of the Civil Code, it is imperative that we bring the agenda of power, the agenda of the government, of the nation. Look, we've been talking about everyone's agenda for four hours. Talked about what? We discussed the problems of the Turkish farmer for 40 minutes after a research motion by the National Party for Action. Now I'm asking you, is the farmer okay? You did this, you did this. Thank you, you've done your duty. It doesn't suit you to brag about what you're doing. But I'm a Southern MP. All areas of agriculture in the south are troubled. His name is Mehmet, his last name is Erdogan. So he's a dear friend that I respect. But we've been listening to the same speech for five years from Mr. Mehmet Erdogan. It's a constant increase in the support of the AKP's government to the farmer, but there's a conclusion. There's no reason to question it, folks. There's a conclusion. After all, livestock has collapsed. So if it hadn't collapsed, we wouldn't be importing live animals, carcas, meat from the outside. You don't have to tell me anything else, there's a conclusion. I was at the Van. So there's no need to discuss the injuries of the earthquake. And thank you for the service. But our people who live in Van... have stopped making sugarpancane. The Sugar Factory is unpredictable. Animalism is dead. A farmer pulled up, he said, "Sir, I mean, yesterday we were taking the bait for $25, and now we're taking it for $42 or $43, but the price of carkas is not going up. Despite all precautions, it's not increasing. How do we stand it? So livestock doesn't feed us, we feed animalism. It's a result, not if you ignore it. Now, Mersin, the farmer is desolate in the land of riches and beauty. Of course, there are disasters, rain strikes, hail strikes, wind strikes, while your policies strike. Today, in Mut district, where you rule yourself, the hundred-white apricot farmer of our country has collapsed; he is not going for 50 cents; his apricot is not going for 50 cents today, Turfanda, in the beginning. Plum maker, strawberry producer, miserable. So we need to establish the law here that solves these problems, but here's the agenda you brought in. The laws you bring are necessary, of course, and I'm not saying anything, but you're not bringing law here to solve people's emergency problems, not their agenda. Another thing, dear friends, is that we've all passed a law on the use of 2/B land here together, so we've backed it, we've expressed our support, but the law has come up with so many errors that our citizen is now devastated. You're getting a thousand lira from the peasant, $2,000 from the city, the Mad Dumrul tax! He doesn't know if he's going to buy it, he doesn't know if it's going to be sold to him. For each case, you receive a thousand lira per case from the rights holders living in the village borders, and $2,000 per case from the city and town centers. There's no telling what it's going to be. The numbers that have come up are terrifying. So he built the land from beyond the ancestor, turned it into agricultural production, or built a house on it, turned it into a slum; you're going to sell it to him again, it's not clear whether he's going to buy it or not. E, when we came out of this 2/B Law, we said, "Come, let's give the produce of land, agricultural land, especially in the rural areas, to the rural and edge villagers without charge." No, you said 70 percent of the territorial value. In fact, we agreed on 50 percent, and you raised it to 70 percent. E, now you're causing a very serious social crisis because of the 2/B app. These things need a solution. Another thing: Officers, there are valuable friends on the street, landscapes that don't suit Turkey. Here, it was announced today, 4+4. How did our officer... so you gave Turkey a first in the history of the Republic? What is it? You couldn't give the 2012 raises even though the sixth month had been entered. However, as a government, as a government, you've given every service a raise of the world, but you haven't been able to pay your employees their dues. E, now, today, with a law that we're about to start interviewing, which, according to me, is very wrong, and it's impossible to understand why you're doing this -- you're eliminating the rights of Turkish Airlines workers to strike. Dear friends, basic rights and freedoms cannot be eliminated by law. If you call it democracy, if you call it a developed country, if you speak such ambitious words, you will remove the restrictions in front of freedoms. If you eliminate the right to strike, which is a very basic right to strike, it will cause social outbursts, like waking up a sleeping giant. You want June 15th to happen again? What good is that to your power, to your government, to our country? But you're bringing this. Well, another thing, this is a matter of shame for the House, and we're really sorry to talk about it all the time. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, you could have been in the place of these arrested MPs. These MPs were brought to the attention of the Speaker of the House with a very sincere zeal, creating an expectation. These MPs have families. There are hundreds of thousands of people voting for them. We don't understand what your problem is in meeting this expectation that you've created, but you're not bringing in a law to solve it. As a result, in the program that you brought here on this week's schedule, you bring 259 seven articles, 258 forty-four articles, 249 international contracts, then two parts of the mediation law, and then an international contract. So you believe this will all be over in these two days, Mr. Elitaş?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0100par0353	If you contribute, it's over.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0099par0354	We'll contribute...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0100par0355	Then it's over.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0099par0356	But if you don't seek compromise, if you don't insist on compromise, how will it happen?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0100par0358	If you contribute, it's over.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0099par0359	So, dear friends, may your agenda be good, but first and foremost, the good work doesn't suit you here until you're in this mess, so may it be good for you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0101par0362	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. On the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group, the last speaker, Mr. Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0102par0365	Mr. President, we're not surprised that you've always done what you've done when you've set the Council's new working schedule. Here's a list of all the laws and bag laws that haven't yet reached the commission, and what's going to happen by the end of June. We're looking at it, it's still coming to the House, it's coming to the commission, it's on the subcommittee... and what you brought in today, including Friday. If you do not seek reconciliation -- we are four groups in the parliament -- if you do not come to Turkey's real agenda, if you do not create the environment of the process of building a new constitution in the new constitutional process, if you do not ensure that parliament works in harmony, and if you ignore Turkey's agenda as your own agenda, this Parliament will not work, friends. The Civil Code gives a lot of authority to three opposition parties, and when three opposition groups use those powers, you do not have the opportunity to implement this calendar. Now, in your proposal today, you ban the strike against unions -- especially in the air business. What about the union, the union that's banned from the strike, guys? A union that doesn't have a strike, could it be a union? Is that an understanding? In the September 12th referendum, you said the right to aggress, you said the rights to a collective contract, you gave a lot of bullshit to a citizen, but then you brought it back to the strike ban. Now, the planes don't take off, you've got the riot squad at Ataturk Airport, the gas bombs are ready, I'll either lay off or I'll shoot you. You say that's your current position. In this law that we're meeting today, you have blockaded cabin attendants, technicians, airport employees at Ataturk Airport. Now, isn't that an imposition? If it's a Turkish Airlines brand, if it's at this level, if it's a world-profit corporation, it's because of its employees. These employees need to be respected for their hard work. If his labor is not respected and they are allowed to strike with such a law, it would be called ingratitude, ingratitude. I'm telling you, you're bringing us a code of ingratitude. We're going to fight this, we're going to say what we're going to say, but why are you so hostile to work... why are you so hostile to work, to organize, to understand that? Your agenda by the end of June, the real problem of this country, is that there are conflicts everywhere. How can we prevent these conflicts, how can we find a way, how can we talk in this House? Do you have any suggestions in these? Do you have any friends? Put your hand on your conscience, this month, next month these conflicts, no killings, is there a single suggestion for peace to come to Turkey? No. Now, there's no freedom of thought, there's no freedom of thought. You're all silent because the boss said so about the arrested MPs. You've used the Speaker and thrown him out, and there's no dignity left for the Speaker of Parliament. The Minister of Parliament took off his badge, and he put on the AKP's tux, and he went, and he was supposed to be neutral, and he couldn't do it either. He says, "Should I go on hunger strike for the MPs?" Brother, then why did you call three opposition parties? If you're going to play this much, if you're going to have such a low profile, why'd you call in three parties about arrested MPs? You think it's over when you close it? It's not closing, guys. What you've just brought in are the laws imposed by the European Union. They're all crippled. Look, you don't know, he's crippled from ombudsman's office to all of them. What kind of constitution are you going to make when you don't do freedom of thought, freedom of organization, road cleaning? These are people who will talk to change this Constitution, but you say, according to the Anti-Terror Law, you are terrorists. You've done 8,000 operations here. 8,000 of our parties are under arrest, 6 MPs, 32 mayors... so you've seen a knife, an action, a violent incident in these files? Is there a victim in a joint? Could that be your point of view, your understanding? Your Prime Minister doesn't have brakes from time to time, I'm sorry, I mean it. They don't have brakes in their speech. His words are already conflicted, he says he's already wavering. There are mine maps on the roads of the villagers in Uludere. The Prime Minister says today. Have fear of God, for twenty-seven years in these conflicts, those villagers... who guard all the villages of that district, have fought many times. His child, the children who were killed... among those who were killed... a chief is still crippled by his feet, and how many others like him have lost their lives in the fighting. Now you have a map of the May to cover it up. If so, you're the Prime Minister, you're not the opposition, don't complain, find, take, judge. Look, this slander has hurt more than the Home Secretary who called those victims "figurran." There were people coming from there today, they were in my room, listening to the Prime Minister. Now, it's been an argument. The Prime Minister said, "If we're wrong, are we going to tie him to the vending machine?" Either there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake, there's a mistake on purpose, there's a technical error. There are many kinds of mistakes. It's the government's job to find out who made those mistakes after they confessed. Power is not the name of crying like opposition, of writhing in despair. After ten years of power, you take it out, who made this mistake, enlightening the public about justice. And no apologies. I mean, if you made a mistake, why don't you apologize? No apologies. No apologies if the citizens are from the Nation. I think that's something to discuss. I've known the area for 30 years as a lawyer. There's something the Prime Minister doesn't know. I'm going to say it sincerely, and I want you to think about it. We, Mardin MPs here, here of Diyarbakır, here of Siirt, here of Van. There is no Hakkari. I tell the MPs in that area, to your religion, to your faith, to your conscience: Is it right or is it not right to remove the funeral of a child, a man killed in a mountain? If it's true, why is it against it? The funeral, the condolence, the tradition is being defied, and the BDP who has taken care of it, says the prime minister. It's a great weakness, my friend. This language is not the language of reconciliation, of peace. Do you know that in 30 years, a class called gangbusters has evolved in these conflicts? These booty hunters are two kinds: one of them is the one who seizes the money and valuables on the people who were killed in the conflict and divides them. None of this is in the criminal court records. Look, 30 people die in combat, one of them doesn't have a dollar, a penny, or a dollar. They haven't had thousands of dollars on them in battle in 27 years. And then there are those who cut off their ears, noses, organs. These are the booty hunters. And then there's the bounty hunters. These bounty hunters were JITEM, a confessor, a gang, a coupger. There are still bounty hunters, you know, who have evolved among them and served in the area today, Mr. Muammar Guler, who, you know, are headhunters. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] They get bonuses, they get bonuses for killing civilians. Now, you live in a society with these hunters. When you're not talking about this on your conscience, I'm saying it's not possible to actually contribute to the culture of reconciliation, to the study of Parliament. I say we're against it, this work. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit03spe0103par0384	Mr. Kaplan, thank you. I submit to your votes the Justice and Development Party Group, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Congressmans, I'm taking a 45-minute lunch break.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0103par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey On the establishment of Gebze University, my 2/231 main law proposal has not been concluded, although it has been 45 days since it was transferred to the main commission. In accordance with Article 37 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask that it be taken directly into the agenda of the General Assembly. The bidder, Mr. Hursit Sun... Here you go, Mr. Sun.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0104par0013	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, as our President says, we are about to vote on the agenda of a bill proposed directly by Parliament in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code. It is about the establishment of a university in Gebze. As you know, universities, higher education institutions, perform two important functions. One of them is to make disciples; another is to contribute directly to economic development in the region. It provides social development, it provides cultural development, and the state has established 105 public universities and public universities in Turkey so far; there are 62 foundation universities, so we have more than 170. It's been the last 20 to 20 years since our colleges opened intensively. We're building colleges very intensively, and we're seeing benefits, benefits. Of course, when we don't open our universities quickly, the total number of students in our universities, unfortunately, is expanding. For example, the University of Alexei was founded in 1992, with 60,000 students today. I mean, it's so intense, it's beyond a manageable dimension. The population in the region is around 1,600,000. Each year 370-380,000 students graduate from high school in this area and have to go to college. There are two universities in the region: one of them is the University of Kopeeli, 60km away, which is Gebze. The other is the University of Marmara, which is 40 to 50km away. There are more than two million populations in that region, when we think about the surrounding area of Gebze, or Darica, or Serova, or Tuzla, or Pendik, or Sultanbeyli, as we think about it. In 2023, this will reach an even greater number. By 2023, there will likely be 500,000 high school graduates in this area each year and will seek out a university. So he needs a new university in the region very seriously. Turkey is now producing 4 per cent of its illegal national product in this region. It's an important industrial area. The need for a university in this industry is very clear, we need to ensure that. So we need to raise students, and we need to establish the institution of technological, scientific contributions to this industrialized region. Now, my bill has six faculty, four institutes. It's a simple, clear university institution that builds the main skeleton, of course the university will grow in time. It's not right to start a university with all the faculty, to try to start a large university, as a professor, I know that, I've lived it. I was a student at the University of Marmara at one of Turkey's major universities. It's a very big university, it has almost every faculty, and it's an amorphic structure, and it hasn't grown that easily. Now instead, we need a direct need, but in time, we need a serious need for a university that will grow as the need arises. There's an important faculty in the bill, the faculty of fine arts. It will help Gebze to develop socioculture, with the name Osman Hamdi Bey. Turkey is also important in its history of art. My fellow lawmakers, now, I would like to say that the proposal of this law is that the young will be relieved and the industry will be relieved, such a proposal of law. I made this bill in person. I also spoke to the Minister of Industry, who is the district's MP, and he said: "We are in such a state of readiness." I pledge this bill if you vote positively: this law and this university will be the university of the Assembly. It's not going to be my college or my friends' signatures, it's going to be a college that's all voted out and built. I'm aware of that, and I think it's helpful, and I haven't downloaded this law proposal to the General Assembly in a long time, and I've been waiting, and I was wondering if there's going to be another offer in six? he said: "O He didn't show up, so I thought I'd take him down, put him on the agenda, and we'd all make this law. If we all support this together, young people in Gebze, and industry in Gebze will get into a university like this, it will be the work of all of us, the university of all lawmakers with the power of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hope it works out for all of us. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0105par0025	Thank you, Mr. Sun. On the proposal, Mr. Mehmet Hilal Kaplan. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0106par0030	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, the High Assembly, and all the arrested MPs. As our Kopeeli MP, Mr. Sun, has just mentioned, the proposed law is a request for the establishment of a new university in the Gebze region. A few weeks ago, when we were sharing with you about Gebze's problems here, we stressed that one of the essentials was college. The university has the ability to change the face of Gebze. The reason is that the town of Gebze Industries is one of the most dense districts in Turkey. Thus, he is taking migrations from many provinces of Asia Minor, with which he is rapidly and warped. Therefore, education and a university are the most important factors that can change Gebze's social fabric. That's why college is mandatory. The university, not only raises scientists, but leads society to modernisation through social, cultural, sporting and artistic activities, raises individuals with a sense of social responsibility, leads to sustainable development through university and industrial cooperation, allows generations of people with the ability to respect nature, the environment, to solve problems, to develop free thinking, to have the ability to develop the Ataturk revolutions. Due to the social and economic delay of the Gebze region, culturally, reduces the region's drug addiction among young people, reduces the trend in crime and avoids the tradition of illegal livelihood. Thus, for the sake of work and food from different provinces of Anatolia, the people of Gebze, who migrated to this city for the sake of life's safety and struggle for life, naturally have different cultural understandings and traditions. The university is absolute and essential in the Gebze region to create common habitats, to embrace common urban culture, and to make it necessary for a sisterly environment, to raise free-thinking, human-rights, and loving generations of people in the Gebze region, one of the essentials of the region. For years, the Gebze region has faced a demand at this point. A university that cooperates socially, culturally and artisticly with its people, who will do the RD study with its industry, is inevitable. I know very well, and I would like to express that, with his power and opposition, all lawmakers in the region of Gebze agree at the point of the establishment of a university in what we call the region of Serova, Darica, Dilovasi, Hereke, and even Istanbul. Thus, Gebze's industrialist, occupational rooms, NGOs are zealous, ready, and will continue his zeal. There was one thing we had a lot of before. When the university issue came up in Gebze, the administrative authorities had demands and claims at a point where authorities had no place in the region. But I'd like to point out that we have no shortage of space because of the fact that our military barracks, which are 700 acres and 950 acres, are moving out of this district as of next month. The Gebze Institute of High Technology, which has already been located in Çayırova, has about 2,500 undergraduates, undergraduates, and PhD students, but what is missing is that a Gebze Institute of High Technology, which has not been socially and culturally integrated with its people, has failed to study RD with Gebze, a Gebze High Technology Institute, far from being a university. Therefore, I know that we have been assured that this proposal of the law has been voiced by the ruling party MPs and that they may be zealous in this matter. I hope you don't mistake me. In a moment, you will all be able to support the Gebze region's accession to the university. I salute your High Council again.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0107par0037	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. Impulsional MP Fikri Izlu has a brief request to speak. This way, please.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0108par0040	Mr. President, honored members, I salute the High Council. Gebze is not only one of the most important production centres in Turkey, but one of the most important production centres in Turkey. Gebze has not only the Gebze Institute of High Technologies, there is TÜBITAK MAM, there is TÜSSİDE, and now Turkey's first works of science, the founding of the IT valley are also in Gebze. The Gebze Institute of Higher Technology is currently at university status, but it does not honor our college. For him right now, a very important study of the Gebze Institute of High Technology continues to be transformed into a university, providing the socioeconomic, scientific and technological development of Gebze, giving Gebze the maximum contribution to Gebze. We don't think it's right that this bill should be raised before the end of this infrastructure work. I hope that when we make our offer, we take the contribution and support of the opposition and say that we aim for the best law to be passed, and I offer you respect.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0109par0043	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0110par0046	Mr. President, we want roll call.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit04spe0109par0047	You want roll call, over. Mr. Tünce, Mr. Serinöz, Mr. Aygün, Mr. Eyidoğan, Mr. Özgündüz, Mr. Akar, Mr. Sun, Mr. Imlight, Mr. Pine, Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Tayan, Mr. Kaleli, Mr. Şafah, Mr. Öz, Mr. Gök, Mr. Havutça, Mr. Karaahmetoğlu. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're going to do a roll call now. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are not enough meetings. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0109par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Fifth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Before the vote on the proposal of the law's direct agenda was voted, the meeting on the request was not enough. Now I'm going to repeat the roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, there are enough meetings. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We move on to the agenda's part of the above - the - word questions. Congressmans, I'm here in the presentation section to read the oral questions Mr. Bülli Yıldırım, Minister of Transport, Maritime and Communications, wishes to answer together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of the Interior İdris Naim Şahin. 15.7.2011 Ardahan grows more and more every day. It is possible that Ardahan is a truly urbanized city with everyone doing their best. The university is rapidly developing and hundreds of students come to our province every year, unfortunately the traffic lights in the city in previous years are not working. Hundreds of students from different cities come to Ardahan each year, and in summer the number of vehicles in the city is increasing rapidly. For him, traffic lights were not used in the city during previous years. When will traffic lights be used? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What is the latest situation of the work of North-South accents under the General Directorate of the Highways? How long is the divided road and the only road completed in these studies? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. A new era of reform in the road transport sector has begun with the Law on Highway Transport. New regulations have been implemented, based on EU standards, such as professional competence and respectability, financial competence. What have been the economic and social gains of the new practice for our road transport and for those who work in the country and in the sector? How much of the industry has been covered by these arrangements? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Has there been increased quality and institutionalisation in the road transport sector? Is the stage of international road transport satisfactory? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. How many highway projects do you have planned to build with the do-and-work model? What's their current status today? What areas of highways are planned to be built? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What are the efforts to address issues such as quotas, transit fees, border crossings that are faced in international transport? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What are your mid and long-term goals in order to reduce and limit greenhouse gas emissions that result from transport and cause climate change? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I move that my following question be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What practice is being made to pay for the property of the people who were condemned for the purpose of building highways?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0111par0064	What kind of question is that? He's already made the law.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0112par0065	You will answer our questions. There'll be time for yours, too. HAYDAR AKAR- No, but not AKP's questions, they can ask them themselves.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0113par0068	There's the Civilization Act, the publicization...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0112par0069	That's not gonna happen. There's an hour of time. It's always Ali Ercoshkun. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Is it also considered to be an integral part of climate change policy in order to control growth in the transport sector and reduce its negative impact on the environment? Are these policies related to EU or other international standards for vehicle emissions (reduction of exhaust emissions and improving air quality)? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. How many miles of new lines were made between 1950 and 2002 on the railways? How many miles of new railroads have been built in the last eight and a half years? Where are the new railway lines built? Plus, how many miles of the current railroad grid? Renovated the lyclic section? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. How many hemzemes have been automatically flashed and barricaded between 2002 and 2011 to prevent the collisions of roads and trains at the crossings of the railroad? Mr. Secretary, they all say it's the wrong Minister of Transport, but that's not the Ministry.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0114par0089	Madam Secretary, even your name is misspelled in the motions, the Ministry's name has been changed.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0112par0090	It's wrong, it's not the Ministry, it's all wrong.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0115par0091	There is no such thing as the Ministry of Transport. It's been given before.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0116par0093	But they'll fix it!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0117par0094	Wrong Mr. Secretary, you can't!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0116par0095	They can get all this from there once they're on your site, Mr. Secretary, there's no need for a question motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I move that my following question be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Between 2003 and 2011, how many miles of the current railway network? Renovated the lyclic section? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. When did Project Marmaray begin? When is the delay due to archaeological excavations scheduled to end the project? What's the total cost of the project? What's the current status on the project? What will the completion of the project and the gains of Istanbul in particular and our country in general?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0118par0108	He's asking about your winnings, and he's asking about the losses. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. When was the tender for the construction of railway construction in Turkey - Georgia (Kars - Tbilisi)? What percentage of construction has been achieved physically? What are the benefits of the project, and when is it scheduled to be supplied?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0119par0115	Didn't he ask which firm took the contract? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Are logistical centers also established in our country, which are considered the heart of modern freight transport, which have integrated transport with other transportation systems? How many areas have logistical centers primarily been built in connection with organised industrial areas, where the potential for carrying cargo is intense? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. TCDD, which began to run a high-speed train abroad and a fast train operation, is a 450km between Mecca-Medine. Has there been a contract for construction, maintenance and management of the high-speed train line? Where are the studies at? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. To what stage has Sivas-Erzincan been working on the high-speed train line? When will it be completed and served? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. The Ankara-Sivas high-speed train project, which continues construction work between Yerköy-Sivas, is also known to continue project work among Ankara-Yerköy. When will construction work begin and when will it be completed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. When will the Ankara High Fast Train Line, which is still under construction in Ankara-Eskişehir district, begin its service? Will the current high-speed train sets be sufficient when the line is opened? Is the new set being planned? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. The Lake Van crossing cuts Turkey's opening to Central Asia. This blackout is being attempted by ferry connections. The current ferry, however, has filled its economic lifespan. What are your plans to overcome these limitations in the short and middle term? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Are there ever faster train projects under construction, as well as faster train projects planned by your ministry? Which of these projects will be completed by 2023? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Our country's 3rd. When do you propose to tender Ankara-Izmir's fast train project and when will it be completed? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. We know the Adapazari-Karasu railway line is being built. When will the Adapazari-Black Sea Ereğli and Bart's Port railway be connected?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0120par0170	Is he going to Isparta from Eregli? Is he worried about that place?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0121par0171	Mr. Tanju, read it quickly. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. In the Aviation Sector, the public Special Co-operation (KOI) model and what airports have been built to build terminals? What's the total cost of this project? How many people on average are additional jobs created during the production and business periods of the YID Projects? What is the total passenger capacity of these terminals? What's the total rate of passengers traveling across Turkey using these airports? Are there any other airports planned as KCI? If so, which are they? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. From 2002 to 2011, what are the number of airlines inland and outline passengers as of many years ago? Which airports were open for civilian air flights in 2002? Which airports are open to civilian air traffic as of June 2011? Mr. Tanju, if you could read a little faster, Mr. Secretary might respond better. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. When did the THY national flight monopoly be removed? What are the number of foreign and domestic passengers as of 2002-2011, with the Regional Air Transport project launched within this scope?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0122par0191	Mr. Tanju, you're reading fast, we can't understand! Easy, easy!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0121par0192	This is a fun place! Everyone's saying something, everybody's doing something, a place of fun.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0123par0193	Ms. Ayşe, are these questions, for God's sake? Are these question proposals? ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Our country's airspace... That can't happen! 39 of the 41 questions motions belong to the ruling party.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0124par0201	These questions are wave questions, aren't they?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0125par0202	It's not.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0123par0203	Are these questions a question, for God's sake?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0124par0204	Are these questions a question?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0125par0205	Doesn't a congressman have the right to ask questions?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0126par0206	He's gonna ask the right question, not make fun of it.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0127par0207	Ma'am, 39 of the 41 questions can't be the ruling party's.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0128par0208	Guys, please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0126par0209	He's not gonna ask like he's kidding!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0128par0210	Please... please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0129par0211	What kind of question is that? Is this place a piece of cake?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0128par0212	Friends, please... please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0213	What is this?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0131par0214	We're gonna ask you?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0215	Yes, you will ask us. We're not country stones here! Of course you're gonna ask us.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0131par0216	Who are you?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0217	Who are you, a teacher!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0132par0218	It's ridiculous, look at the state you're in!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0219	Go back to your group, talk to your group.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0133par0220	Friends, please... please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0221	She'll talk like a lady.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0134par0222	No, please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0223	He speaks as a congressman, he doesn't sound like a lady, and I answer as a congressman. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey The following questions are spoken by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0135par0226	Congressman, is this happening? Look at this list, 39 of the 41 motions belong to the ruling party. Is that a thing?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0136par0227	Dear Light, please... please, friends...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0228	Don't scold me like that! Is there a shepherd here who works at your father's farm?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0137par0229	Don't say my father's name!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0230	Is there a shepherd here who works at your father's farm? Sit down!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0137par0231	Don't put it in your mouth! Don't say my father's name! You can't.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0232	Don't pretend, sit down! Don't fake it, I won't eat it! You can do it to the BDP people, you can't do it to me.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0137par0233	You're rude! Don't be rude!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0234	Come on, sit down, I'm not eating them!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0138par0235	Guys, please, please...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0137par0236	I will feed you so that you will see what it is.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0130par0237	I'll tell you one thing, you can't get up, you jerk! Be careful what you say, he'll make you eat it, I don't know. Arrogant! Shameless!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0138par0238	Okay, guys, please... Yes, let's continue, sir. ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Our country meets the demand for airspace capacity...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0139par0245	People have some sensitive values, respect them.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0140par0246	Then you'll sit properly, come on!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0139par0247	You're rude!
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0140par0248	You're rude, the biggest! Go back to your group and talk. Watch out, you're talking to the MHP Group.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0141par0249	Mr. President, why don't you take a break?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0140par0250	You'll be careful. [[Noises]] Yeah, I just call the MHP Group, that's all. That's right, this is the MHP Group, so you're gonna have to talk about it.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0142par0253	What does that mean?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0140par0254	That's exactly what the MHP Group means. You'll be careful.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit05spe0143par0255	I'm taking a five-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0143par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 112th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue on the agenda's part of the oral questions. Now, I'm going to read the question proposals from where we left off: ▪ To the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What are your efforts to meet our country's demand for airspace capacity and modernise air traffic control systems and control the entire country's airspace from a single air traffic control centre? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What progress has been made in the civilian aviation sector between 2003 and 2011? What kind of picture does this development create compared to the world's global? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What changed between 2003 and 2011 in the Turkish airline market? What are the opportunities and the conveniences these projects provide to our citizens, our citizens, the economy and the aviation sector? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. There have been major developments in our domestic and international flight network in recent years. What activities are being carried out to increase domestic, overseas flight points and numbers? As of today, will the growth in traffic continue? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What are the results of your work and the results of Turkey's recent work towards your goal of becoming a "plane care and education centre"? What is Turkey's position in the world as of 2011? How much does the economy benefit from the number of foreign aircraft that have been cared for so far, and the income that has been earned over the last three years as a result of maintenance? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Turkish planes are supervised abroad. Are foreign planes coming to our country controlled by the Civil Aviation General Directorate? Besides, what's the number of inspections you've made under "Aviation Security and Safety"? What kind of results do you get from these audits? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. From 2002 to today, have airports been rewarded by any international agency? If he's been rewarded, what are the airports rewarded for?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0144par0049	They rewarded Genghis Topel! Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I move that my following question be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What is the ranking of our airports in Turkey in terms of passengers who have been served compared to the Earth and European airports? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. How much do the total investments in airports cost over the years? Investments have increased the capacity of passenger terminals in total? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. What airport terminals have been renovated or increased passenger capacity? Has there been an increase in the number of aircraft parking spaces as a result of investments in airports? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. As it is known, in 2002, when the EC Party came to power, the airline was said to be the path of the public, which included various investments. In parallel with investments aimed at providing international standards for the increasing passenger during the EC Party governments between 2002 and 2011: A) How many years does the DHMI General Directorate, which is responsible for operating our airports, employ for services to airports? B) What is the course of staff selection and purchase? C) In the interest of international standards, what work is being done to improve or boost the rights or motivations of current personnel who serve to ensure the highest level of flight security? D) What is the financial contribution of the DHMI General Directorate, which is responsible for operating our airports, to the public? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to ask that the following question be answered verbally by Minister of Transport Bineli Yıldırım. Aren't you planning to start construction of Çukurova Regional Airport? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. There's talk of regional airports. Do you plan to build a regional airport by 2023? Where will these airports be built? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. Population, trade and tourism and so on. Is there any study of building a third airport in Istanbul, the largest city in our country? If so, where are the studies at? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I request that my following questions be answered verbally by Transport Minister Bali Yıldırım. 01/10/2011 A new regulation on highways and a municipality whose name and central district name are different has been removed and the name of the district has been written down and the current district has been ignored. An example of this is being held in Izmit, the district of Ili, Turkey. When you want to come west or east to Izmit on the TEM Highway, you'll see that the name Izmit is not on the signs. 1. How do you expect to find Izmit, whose name does not appear on any of the road signs when you want to come to Izmit from the east or west? 2. What's the reason why a historic county name has been removed or ignored? 3. It's not clear to the public what it is to be done with this practice, so what do you think you've figured out?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0145par0105	Madam Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0146par0107	You can answer quickly, Mr. Secretary. I don't mind. Is that right? It's a take-away.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0147par0109	What if at least the questioners were here, and they're gone.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0148par0110	Mr. Secretary, don't answer the questions of those who aren't here. It wouldn't be fair. There were no questioners in the past tense. The questioner should be here. Yes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0149par0114	It wasn't in the past, Mr. Minister, when there were no questions, there were no answers, the AKP people are cheap. Mr. President, we're here to answer the verbal questions. I salute the High Council. The first question is Idris Naim Şahin. The question addressed to the Interior Minister (6/28). I'm not rereading the question, the questions have been read. It's about the city lights in Ardahan. Is Mr. Ensar here? No. But we'll read it, there's nothing we can do. The Ardahan municipality has begun preparations for the renovation of traffic lights found at Ardahan headquarters and is scheduled to take place in September in the third quarter of 2012. Ask Mr. Nurdan Şanlı of Ankara MP (6/151). It's a question about highways. In our country, the land-roading network is mainly in the east-west direction. The main corridors have been heavily used in the east-west trade of east-west roads, such as the ancient Silk Road, Spice Road, TRASEKA Road, north, south-east TEKEK Roads, for centuries. During the period of our government, the north, the south corridors are under intense work to develop, the Mediterranean, and the Black Sea, to meet each other, with an end of 8,511km of the distance of 11,797 km, still working at 1,867 kilometers, and the remaining 1,419 kms being tendered in this way, continuing in 18 corridors, from Edirne to Muğla, from Artvin to Hakkari. The main question of Bart's MP, Mr. Yilmaz Junior (6/155) is a question related to the Law on Highway Transport. There was no legal regulation in our country for road transport before 2003, with the Law issued in 2003, with the Law on Road Transport Law 4925, with the Law on Road Transport, which regulates road transport activities. This Law was an arrangement of professional competence, professional dignity, and financial competence. What changed with this Law? The change is that 4,176 documents before 2003 were given in transport, while the number of documents issued from the date of the Law took effect reached 1,241,901, so the law has reached an application area that covers 95 per cent of the sector. Many secondary arrangements have been made. There have been seven secondary regulations such as road transport regulations, competency education regulations, the opening of vehicle inspection stations, public institutions and institutions staff service, school service, and turnovers. The main question motion of Bartın MP Yilmaz junc (6/158) is also related to the development of the land road transport sector along with this new law. We know that the territorial transport system has evolved due to policies in Turkey that have been under way for many years, and that the balance has been disturbed in this direction. As of 2003, domestic transport was 92 per cent on the load and 94 per cent on the passenger. With the new arrangement, the rate is down to 88 per cent, but it is still watching at a very high level. Our goal is to implement our projects, programs, which are to distribute domestic transports in a balanced manner, to increase the railway, the airway, and the share of the sea. On the other hand, the problem of quotas, which have been in international transport for years, has been completely liberalised in 24 countries, and transport has been possible without any quotas. In addition, Turkey had the same quota as Albania in what we refer to as multilateral UBAK documents. Here, after a very intense struggle, the basic quota was raised from 141 to 509, and the number of documents used was increased from 531 to 3,715. After Russia and Germany, Turkey became the third-largest country with the largest quota, and thus the transportation of our increasing exports was possible by Turkish movers. At the same time, I've answered the question of Bolu MP Ali Ercoshkun (6/161) (6/161) for this purpose, and we've combined it because they're the same property. Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/160) the question motion for Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/160) is also related to the do-and-run model, and what projects are there in his 2023 targets? Projects with the do-and-do model can be evaluated in two groups: The first group is still projects that have begun. What are these? Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir highway. A total of 421 kilometers. The second largest bridge of Europe also includes the 4th largest bridge of the world and the Izmit bridge. This project has been auctioned off by the do-and-work model, and its work has begun. The bridge projects have been completed, and last Sunday the wind and earthquake tests will begin to implement. Another project is the third bridge and link path. As you know, the tender has been made today, and the contractor who won the tender to build the third bridge. Because of Istanbul's conquest, this important project was brought to Istanbul today is also a happy occasion. Another project is the soapcube tunnel. The work of this has begun. A tunnel of about 8,000 meters in two tubes is expected to reduce the distance between Izwar and Manisa to ten minutes. Another second group project has a total of 11 projects. These projects are mainly highway projects. The total length of these highway projects is 3,722 kilometers. These are projects between their 2023 targets. Again, Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/161) is a question motion by Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/161)... which is the same as the one I've already answered. For him, it has been answered as the fourth question of international transportation. Another question is the question of Mr. Ali Ercoshkun (6/163). If a deal is reached, it will be paid in full. If there is no agreement, if there is no agreement, there will be a price assessment and registration suit filed against the court and the price will be blocked to the bank, and the decision will be paid in full. So the question is, what operations are being implemented when you're filing an indictment? The question motion of Mr. Hüseyin Şahin (6/169)... is also a question of railways. It's about the work that was done on the railways from 1950 to 2002. A total of 946km of railways were built in our country between 1950 and 2002. The amount of railways made from 2002 to today is now a conventional line -- 220 km as a normal line, 888 km as a fast train. So a total of 1,109 kilometers has been reached in nine years. Over the amount of railways made between 50-2002, a target has been made. In addition, a total of 1,940km of railways has been completely restored to the 6,415km of our network. For your information. The question number 6/170 of Eskişehir MP Mr. Salih Koca (Salih) is exactly the same as the question of Mr. Hüseyin Şahin. That's why I'm passing. Another question, the 9th question, is about the crossings of Eskişehir MP Salih Kocam. There are 3,415 crossings of the State Railways. So far, the 1.054 has been converted into an automatic-light, barriered gate and secured. For your information. Because these crossing accidents happen from time to time, I'm afraid. Even though we've made them barrierd, these accidents happen. So it's not enough, and our drivers need to be trained in this matter. The question motion of Eskişehir MP Salih Koca (6/171) is: between 2003 and 2011, how much of our railways have been renovated? I have already stated: more than half of the total railway network 11.940km total railway network, or 6.415km, has been completely restored. Eskişehir MP Mr. Salih Koca (6/172) has a question proposal for the Marmaray Project. The Marmaray Project began in 2004, and was expected to be finished at the end of 2013. It costs about $5 billion. The total length is 76 kilometers; 15 and a half kilometers pass under the sea and below the ground, and the rest will be the surface rail system. Studies, rail tiles, electromechanization, signalization work continues rapidly. Honestly, what's it gonna bring? There are many benefits that Marmaray will bring. 75,000 passengers in one direction will pass by, which means 1.5 million in one day from west to east or from Europe to Asia. Baseküdar-Sirkeci will pass in four minutes. By the time this project is finished, the share of public transport in Istanbul will have increased from 8 per cent to 30 per cent, and public transportation traffic in Istanbul will be relieved. The number 6/173) question of Eskişehir MP Salih Kocafa () is related to the Kars-Tiflis railways. The Kars-Tiflis-Bakû railway is a strategic railroad in three countries.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0150par0144	Mr. Secretary, why don't you answer in your group room? It is, in a sense, a very important, very strategic project that connects the Far East to the Far East through the Anatolian lands. It is the common project of the three countries; Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, and the work are moving rapidly in all three countries, and is intended to be completed like 2014. Again, the question of our Eskişehir MP, Mr. Salih Koca (6/174) is the importance of the establishment of logistical centers so that cargo transport does not become more economical and faster. In this sense, the work continues to establish logistical centers in various parts of our country. We're setting up 19 logistical centers in front of us in the middle and long term. Where do they come from? It's set up near the ports, near the factories, along the railway routes. So logistical centers both provide cheapness in transportation and a very serious savings in time. The question motion of Giresun MP Adem Tastü (6/175) is related to the Mecca-Medine speed train. For this fast train project, the Chinese, the Germans, Saudi Arabia and Turkey created a consortium and competed for the tender, but the consortium was won by a Spanish company co-ordinator. Talks are still under way about its business being held by the State Railways -- since these are closed to nations outside Muslims, because of such restrictions. I give you the answers to the question motions of Giresun MP Adem Tastak (6/176,177,178): This is about Ankara-Sivas railway, which is on the agenda of our Ministry. The first part of this project, or rather Sivas-Erzincan-Erzurum-Kars, is the first part of the railway, and the implementation between Sivas-Erzincan is under way. By the time this is over, he'll be put into the program with budgets. Another question is: is there any study of the Lake Van crossing? At Lake Van, it is made by, you know, ferry boats, but the current ferry capacities are very limited, and the speed is very low. The construction of two ferry ships with the capacity of fifty cars to speed up the transport here will begin at Tatvan. It will be delivered at 2013-2014. So the transitions will speed up, and the congestions here, the troubles will be completely over. Because the current ships are very old and their speed is very low, which creates a significant negative in transport. The question of Mr. Recep, the MP of Isparta, is: are there fast train projects in 2023? No doubt. Ankara-Konya has opened up, you know. Ankara-İstanbulu's Ankara-Eskişehir chapter has been opened. The construction of Ankara-Sivas is under way. Ankara-Izmir has been tendered for the first chapter, and will begin to work. Mr. Bursa-Billy, this one's being auctioned off, it's going to start today. Other than that, 11 projects were also planned as a high-speed train line, among their 2023 targets. Another question, Mr. Recep, MP of Isparta, is about the Ankara-Izmir Speed Train Project (6/181). I've just given you the answer: it's done in three parts. The first chapter has been tendered, the Polish-Afyon, the Opium-Coach contract. The third stage from wife to Izmir will also be tendered next year. The question of Isparta MP Mr. Recep Special (6/182) is: This is Adapazarı-Karasu asking for the railway. The construction of this 62km line has begun to build infrastructure, and so far it has improved by 30 per cent. Project studies are being carried out to continue further on this line, towards the Eregli-Bartin. This project could also be put into the investment programme, as the budget affords for further years. Mr. Recep, MP of Isparta, asks what has been done here in Aeronautics with the do-and-run model so far. Actually, it's a comprehensive question. Let me put it this way: projects with public-private partnerships have a 58 per cent share in domestic lines and a 94 per cent share in external lines. Certain projects can be referred to as Antalya Airport, Ataturk Airport, Dalaman Airport, Bodrum Milas Airport, Esenboğa Airport, Adnan Menderes Airport, Victory Kütahya Airport and Çukurova Airport. There are also rental-business-enforcement projects. And I don't go into detail because of the timelessness. In this regard, the do-and-work environment has also been transferred to more than $10 billion of public resources with the do-orala-development model. These projects were also carried out before a $1.7 billion source was used from the budget. Mr. Recep's Special (6/184) asks what are the developments in the main question motion? In 2002, 8.7 million passengers were moved from 8.7 million to 58.4 million. There were 25 million transports on the outside, while 59 million passengers were reached by the end of 2011. The flight to 36 airports was scheduled for 47 airports today. Nine airports are under construction. I'm answering the main question of İstanbul MP Mustafa Atash (6/185). When was the flight monopoly of Turkish Airlines removed? In 2003, the monopoly in aviation was lifted, and Turkish Airlines, as well as private sector airlines, began scheduled flights. With this practice, there have been significant developments in aviation. This is: 8.7 million passenger transports on the domestic lines reach 58.3 million, 25 million in foreign lines, 59.3 million in transportation, and 118 million in total. The main question of İstanbul MP Mustafa Atash (6/186) is about navigation systems at airports. The SMART Project and inter-modernisation have been carried out, the Antalya Approach Control Centre, the Northern Cyprus Field Control Centre; further testing continues in Adnan Menderes, İstanbul, Ankara, Dalaman, Milas. Thus, Turkey has achieved the most modern navigational infrastructure in Europe with the SMART Project. İstanbul MP Mustafa Atash (6/187), (6/188), main question proposals (6/189): These are related to aviation developments. In 2002, the air transport company had 2.2 billion euros, while 15 airline companies now have more than 15 billion euros, and the number of direct employees has exceeded 150,000. While the civilian aviation sector has been shrinking around the world, Turkey has continued to grow in double digits and in 2010 it has grown 19 per cent and 20 per cent in 2020. All experts' goals for Turkey in 2015 were also exceeded in 2005. Another question is the question of İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kabbat. This question is also about civilian aviation. Studies on civilian aviation include regional cooperation. Currently, civil aviation has been deployed to 174 points on the outside, 47 points on the domestic lines, and Turkish civilian aviation has gone to many regional partnerships. He has successfully collaborated with African countries, D-8 countries, Balkan countries, and countries that share the northern part of the Black Sea, as we call them. Mehmet Doğan Kubbat (6/191)'s question motion is related to aviation security. Aviation security is measured by SAFA controls. According to the quotas set by EUROCONTROL, you will oversee at least this much aircraft in each country. A SAFA inspection has been conducted on the quota set for Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The European Union average has been upgraded by inspection 376. Time's up.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0151par0167	Madam Secretary, your time is up. You can answer the rest in writing.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0150par0169	Minister, if you ban the strike with the law now, do you intend to slaughter a camel on the apronouncement?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0152par0170	They asked questions, but now they don't give TV.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0153par0171	Mr. Secretary, what are you doing? We're still here, we're not going anywhere.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0154par0174	I only had one question, and you didn't answer it.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0155par0175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Members of parliament, this is how the part of the agenda is completed. Now, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss other audit issues and move on to the Law Bill and Proposals of the agenda and to the Other Affairs From the Commission. We will continue the talks of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will continue with the Tunceli MP Kamer Yün. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks on the Law Incompatibility Law Bill and the European Union Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin talks with İstanbul MP Metin Ashünk and 2 MPs in the third place, the Law Proposal on Changes in Some Laws and the Interior Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 259 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Hasip Kaplan is a Şırnak MP. Mr. Kaplan, please.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0156par0196	Mr. President, I've made a promise to the People's Party of Peace on behalf of Law Proposal 259. I salute you all. Now, of course, when the EC PARTY government mastered its 10th year, it considers its ability to ban the right to strike. An understanding that prohibits strike rights is fundamentally against union rights, collective rights. If there's no strike, there's no point in the union, there's no point in the union. Then close the unions, you don't have to ban the strike, close the unions. There's Mashallah, we're looking, there's a strike today at Ataturk Airport. A government that fired cabinet officials, technical staff, union members in Turkish Airlines with the SMS. We appreciate your finesse. With the SMS, you will go down in history as a government that has been laid off from workmen. We don't know if history will forgive you or forgive you, but as for the right of labor, as for the employee's sweat, believe in those workers who branded Turkish Airways around the world, because you've seen these atrocities again, every time you're in an airport, every cabin official looks you in the eye, and the AK PRTI is not going to look at you with good intentions and eyes. Your strike banners, your working enemies, will see you as a mastered power, dedicated only to the capital, standing before the workers. (x) 259 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Look, there's a strike in the air. Why? For bringing in this law. What do you say? Even though Grev is a very effective way, we bring it in in sensitive business. When you bring it in, you try to fit it into your book, it doesn't fit, no matter what you do. It doesn't fit in the social state, it doesn't fit in the legal state, it doesn't fit in the scales of justice, it doesn't fit in the person, it doesn't fit in the conscience. We're going to enter the European Union. You're a government that has circled the squares in the age of apprentices.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0157par0200	They even said we went in. They threw fireworks.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0156par0201	The president of the European Union, the President of the European Parliament, has been treating you like a student who's been flunking out in class for three years, you know that? For three years, the European Union has been treating you like you've been passed out in class in the negotiation process. It should wait... don't be surprised if you get a confirmation soon. Because there's no respect for working life, no respect for social rights, no respect for social state, no respect for workers, no respect for workers. Now, you're printing the European Social Condition, as well as the Prime Ministerate of Human Rights of the Republic of Turkey, the European Parliament. And now the Sovereign Donation suppresses them, suppresses them and distributes them. What in God's name do you read in the things you distribute? What does it say in the contracts you signed and approved from this House? Look, read: In case of conflict between menfaat, employees and employers recognize the right to mass action, including the right to strike, provided they are subject to obligations that may be born from previous collective contracts. Are you familiar with this law now? You don't know him. Were you not the one who came to the square in the referendum? It was you. So you promised the public, you took votes from the people, you punished the people. Such a sense of power is an expression of mastery, mastery, swelling, mastery, arrogance, disrespect for skill. How can you be such a master? The art of mastery, the art of double-cross, my friends? Is mastery the art of coveting the sweat of a working worker? Is it the art of punishing those workers who make Turkish Airlines the most valuable and profitable company in the world? Come, my lords, do not covet the bread, the vail, the labor, and the sweat of your brow. Do you know how many tours a cabin attendant flies a day? Do you know how many days a week he flies? Think about those tech guys, those floor services, those people who worked nonstop during that tourist season, the rights struggle. You know what they say? Because of this law, we did a 24-hour warning mission. Now, we're looking, and Mr. Secretary here says Turkish Airlines is a private organization. Anadolujet is also a company. We have already received questions and answers. The government says we're not in public contract negotiations. It says we don't have to be. It says we don't have to be. That's what the Minister says. That's true, but... but you know what? But you say, "We'll take precautions if necessary." You've already deployed the riot squad around Ataturk Airport. An asthmatic young man who passed through a gas bomb in Yalova has lost his life, and is now in a vegetative state. You've also gathered police force with gas bombs around the airport. Well, it's a sign... that you gave the authority to Idris Naim Şahin. After that, are you legitimate? You want to strike? You can say, "You can attack tomorrow at the airport." Who? Here's to the employees. You will attack a Turkish-Islamic union; you will work your craft, your mastery. This is persecution, my friends. Service for a citizen is important, and it's important to make sure that things don't go wrong, but in all the countries of Europe, the unions working in the air business have the right to strike. They all use that right at such a time that they use it during the busiest season of tourism. It's a right, a means of struggle, and because they use it, when the airline stops in Paris, London, Rome, no one sends riots, gas bombs, gas flares. Look, you're telling the citizen that this thing came out, I fired you. He worked in this industry for 20 years, 30 years. He worked for 20 years where you mastered power for ten years, but with an SMS, with an SMS, with his family, with his work... his future, his future, his world, you turn him upside down, you lay him out of work. How does it feel to be fired? There are so many layoffs these days. See, in Turkey, the number of people who retired from the SEC was over 5 million, over 2 million people from the BUG-KUR (Mr. Sinan Aygün) may know better -- 1,700,000 from the pension chest. Most of the workers are un unionized, because of these laws. Retireds are over 8 million, no proper unions. You will say, "What will the pensioner strike?" He will strike for what, and if he has a union, he will develop a proper course of action in front of your ministries. Everyone has their own way of doing things, according to their own strength, according to their own age. But you're going to impose indirect taxes on the employee, you're going to impose automatic increases, you're going to impose private consumption taxes, you're going to put all these recent taxes on top of it, you're going to carry the burden of the crisis, then you're going to profit, you're going to profit, you're going to ask the citizens who want their rights, you're going to fire you. As of now, look, the workers involved in the action are being thrown out. Are you watching? All of you go to the Internet. Enter the Internet and see what you can do. You see, you see the approach of the people who work there, and it says, "The Metal-Work Union, the Air-Work Union, all of this: we consider it a legitimate right." Yes, it's the right of workers, workers, workers' right to resist. History has taught them to resist and to win. No boss, no employer, no capital, no employee, you deserve it, you've earned me so much, I'm giving you this. Look at the working history, from May 1st to today. Now, you don't do this, you don't... change your name, you put down the unfair party, or if you're fair, be fair. We don't want justice from you. Where is the justice of the Lord Omar, and where are you? If we put it on the scales of justice, I swear, it'll be funny numbers. Now, we're looking at the latest news again, about the officer's raise. Workers on one side, you're mobilising officers. Why do they act out of work? Now, why are you doing the dropout? See union representatives in what you call it: They say that the strike ban was suddenly brought to parliament and that the rights of Turkish Airlines employees were being tampered with. The collective contract of employment of the 23rd term has been under the employer for 18 months, Turkish Airlines Technical Inc. His contract has been blocked for twelve months, and he has been barred for twelve months. It's not fair, my friends, that 14,000 employees and their families are being manipulated by 50,000 people. Because of this unfortunate proposal of the law... Mr. Ashunk, how did you get into this game? Ben, I pity you. When all the cabin attendants are serving you, if I were them, I'd pour one Coke at a time on top of the coffee. You deserve it.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0158par0211	Hot coffee...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0156par0212	Hot, just the way you want it, no sugar, plain. You deserve it. So where did they get you to do this to them, or did they order you to do it? It's usually like that at the party, no one's creating it anymore, someone's making it, bringing it, signing it. Why did you come to this game? Mr. Ashy, you shouldn't have come. I swear to God, I wouldn't be playing this game if I was a congressman at the AK PARTY. How are you going to get on the plane from VIP to cabin, looking those cabin attendants in the eye?
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0159par0214	We'll see...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0156par0215	You'll see, won't you? I got you fired. You look at it. After that, you're going to say you're such a algebraic MP? We know you won't, because it doesn't look good on your face. We believe that. Now, if you link the most important values that sustain these personnel to threats, punishment, dismissal, violations of the rules, God will not let you find the worst. I'll just say, that's all I can say, because he's not the only one in this law. You're fighting pirate cabbies. If you like cabbies so much, bring a radical change, brother, radically, radically. Look, you're going to fight the parking lot mafia, but you're going to bring that arrangement, you're going to give it to your staffers and your mob, you're going to change hands. God bless you! We've got three elections ahead of us, 70, 60 percent of the vote, right? You've done well to the Mafia and to the staffer. What are you going to do? You're gonna take the street that wanker took from him, and you're gonna give it to someone else. Is there a parking space left or is there a parking space left in Istanbul? I'm asking you, is there a parking space? Mashallah, you've owned Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality since 95. The parking lots you're building are floor by floor, the parking lot you're building is gani gani, the elevator is running, the automatic, the apartments are always parked, you've never left a parking problem in Istanbul, you've solved it. You've had big projects so far, when your Prime Minister was President. You have the city hall. Go, you won't find a place to park in Istanbul. If you can't find a parking spot, then you haven't mastered it in 15 years. You've been a novice for 15 years. Go to Germany, to Europe or wherever, six parking lots of all parks, friends, six parking lots of parks, six parking lots of intersections. The buildings you built don't have parking conditions, and there's no project requirements. You put up all the illegal projects, all the contraband, and then you got a pardon, and you got nothing on it. That's how you're gonna solve the parking lot, isn't it? And you brought financial rentals to the charter companies. What companies are you going to get out of this? How many companies do you have for two years? You've entered the financial system as well, haven't you? By Allah, you are not masters, but you are a vigilant force, and after ten years you are awake and awake. You're so awake, you can leave one day without sleep. Every once in a while...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0160par0218	This is the work of Metin.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0156par0219	Now, Metin Ash has brought us the busmen, the airmen have a strike law. What happened to the busmen, I'm surprised, it's not in here. He made a promise to the busmen, and then we saw...
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0161par0220	I sent him away.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0156par0221	Now, another thing: be wary of God, the most innocent, hardworking people in the world are firefighters, the most risky professional group. Why are you blackmailing them? Does it suit you? You've mastered it for ten years, blackmailed a firefighter, took out this law and got his case back. Have fear of God. Don't be such an enemy of the workers! Don't be a working, working enemy. I mean, it's not like you're all going to be the boss of 326 MPs. Isn't anyone here working for God's sake? Or is every one of you planning on being the boss after a semester? It's the right thing to give these firefighters. Don't blackmail them, take back your cases. Do not make a law; deliver their rights, keep them hidden, but do not do so. I say to you, "If you do not act righteously, then God will judge between you." I bid you good night.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0162par0224	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. The second word for the group is in Enver Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0163par0229	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the Law Proposal and Interior Commission Report on the Amendment to some Laws Number 259. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, this arrangement presents itself as an arrangement that ignores the lawmaking techniques and basic mission of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Up until now, the government has been making changes to various laws in various areas, and is now launching a period of bag arrangement with law proposals. When we look at this bag of laws, the first is the amendment to Article 29 of Group Business Convention 2822, the Strike and Lokkaft Law 29 (the 2nd Amendment to Article 2918), the 79th Amendment to the Article of the Highway Law on Traffic. Third, the prevention of piracy taxi drivers; fourth, allowing airline companies in passenger and freight activities to be hired by evenings and parts of their engines; and fifth, an arrangement that allows test winners but unassigned firefighters to begin their duties. The AK PARTY government and the new lawmaking technique brought by AKP MPs make it very difficult for those who implement it, and it becomes increasingly impossible to tell what kind of arrangement the arrangement is in. Of the five arrangements offered by this law, three can be seen as related and may be in the interest of the Interior Commission. However, amendments to Article 29 of Article 2822, Strike and Lokkaft Law were discussed primarily in the Interior Commission when the Commission for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs should be discussed. Again, it was not right to discuss financial rental arrangements in a similar way on its original commission, but to discuss them in the Interior Commission. The fact that aviation services have been banned as a strike ban has come to the agenda of the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, which was the main commission of the Common Business Act (the Commission) which was discussed a few months ago, has been rejected by all lawmakers, the ban on strikes in aviation services. The transfer of the same request to the Interior Commission as its original commission, its acceptance here, is no more than an ulterior motive. Dear MPs, Group Business Convention 2822, Strike and Lokkaft Law adopted in 1983, and bans on strikes and lockouts have been imposed on Article 29 of 1983. The third and fifth joke of Article 29 was covered in 1988 by changes in the production of water, electricity, air gas, and distribution of fire services conducted by public organisations, the transport services of land and sea roads were also banned from striking. For nearly 30 years, no one had thought of bringing a strike ban on aviation services, but the AKP, which has kept the terms of democracy, rights and law in its fields, has solved the problem in a short way and deserved to go back in history by bringing it to the point where no one has been able to do it, and no one has. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Ashkunk, when explaining the reason for the 1st amendment of the law proposal, the fact that there is no job in the aviation sector and that there will be no replacements soon, the only trade union in the line of business, Air-Business, is that it is important to make it difficult for the collective contract to meet with the challenge demands of the collective contract, with the right to maintain its own well-being and to meet the necessary needs of the strike, given the negative impacts on the national economy, corporations and citizens. Although the reason for the first clause of the proposal is laid out in this manner, the real reason is that the strike ban is being imposed on this task, due to the fact that the Turkish Air-Work Union's collective agreement with the Turkish Airlines Association has been brought to justice and the possibility that judicial decisions will be against the Turkish Airlines. Thus, the union in this service is being tried to undermine the collective contract of employment in this line of work. In light of these reasons, you must ask Mr. Ashunk, who has prepared the proposal, Mr. Ashunk, if your conscience is at ease by offering it to the House. Wouldn't you be entitled to the rights of the public contract if the employees of this service, if they don't get their rights? Third: Will you ever again board the aircraft used by Turkish Airlines personnel, whose rights have been violated? Are you bringing this arrangement as thanks to Turkish Airlines personnel, who have made every sacrifice today to become one of the number of airlines in the world without a night, day and vacation? You think your work is a reward for Turkish Airlines personnel? How did you remember that such a forbidden arrangement in the service area since 1983 had not come for anyone's sake? Is there another country in the world that bans the strike on aviation services? We'd appreciate it if you'd answer those questions, Mr. Ashy, from the stand. Dear AKP MPs, it's not as good as you think it is to be the first in the world. The comfort of your numerical majority may show you all sorts of injustices, injustices, interference in the judiciary as if you're doing a good thing, but in a industry with 14,000 people working, don't take back nearly 70,000 people. The wealth of those who weep will not avail those who laugh. Don't forget that, too. Power, property, youth are things that come and go, but beware, they don't leave your sins on your shoulders. Speaking of the union and collective contract, I'm once again going to eat the government, which has been unable to receive salary differences for six months, which has not been given the rights and pay increase due to prosperity and inflation awareness, and which has caused the union representatives to intervene with pepper gas to seek their rights. Dear lawmakers, despite the fact that we have said that in this bill brought to our agenda today that we are members of the National Movement Party's Interior Commission, our opposition is not included in this bill, which has been printed out on 259 rows. That's why we're in such a hurry, why we're in such a hurry, where this arrangement is trying to grow, and it needs to be explained. Dear lawmakers, the fact that aviation services have been introduced into service areas where the strike ban has been imposed will also expose some difficulties. These problems include: This arrangement violates all contracts related to the European Social Condition, ILO Convention 87, international contracts that regulate freedom of organisation and unionisation and the working life that regulates the right to strike. This arrangement would be contrary to the 90th article of the Constitution, because it is in accordance with its policy that inter-national agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms which are enforced are based on inter-national agreements that can be passed on the same issue because the law has different provisions on the same issue. This proposal will not be in accordance with the Constitution. If this arrangement becomes legal, a new sector will emerge with a union but not a strike. It will not be in harmony with democracy, with human rights and the general principles of law enforcement, with the lack of union and collective contract of civil officers working in the Turkish Armed Forces, with the non-union of subcontracted workers, with the rights of police officers, with the members of the Turkish Armed Forces, with the members of the Turkish Armed Forces, with the union and the collective contract of the members of the judiciary in a country where there is no right to strike. This arrangement is not in line with the concept of advanced democracy that the EC PARTY has not broken down. The dissension in the collective agreement with the Air-Business Union should be removed from the text, which will lead to a trial that will lead to consequences against employees. It would be more appropriate to discuss the strike rights and talks with the Commission for Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs, the main commission, where the talks are discussed primarily in the collective business relationship. Again, given that the aviation sector is a strategic sector, if the aviation services are being asked to have a strike ban, this sector has come in the process of striking those who work at this stage, so the workers' right to strike has not been in the way of the development of this sector. Dear lawmakers have envisioned amendments to Article 2918 of Law Article 2918 and a permit to be paid for parking on the road to land and to be run or operated by relevant municipalities. First of all, it makes sense for AKP authorities, who have taken over the country's last ten years, to have 15 years in local administrations, instead of solving parking problems for our cities, to park streets and streets. Article 37 of the Building Law is divided into necessary parking spaces, considering the conditions of the town and the region, which are planned for the introduction of the construction plans. The necessary parking spaces in buildings and facilities in need of parking are not allowed to be used unless the municipality's mayors have suspended them. The fact that the money paid by the citizens who are building, building, and working places has not been provided for this purpose is the real cause of the problems today. It is important that the government or the ruling lawmakers bring to the agenda of the Assembly the necessary arrangements to eliminate these violations of the zoning regulations under the zoning code, which will provide the real solution to the problem. Second: The government will admit that it cannot deal with the parking mafia with this arrangement, that it wants to legalise, legalize, legalize the parking mafia, and establish a legal status. The municipality's first task is to take the necessary measures to remove the parking mafia, but with this arrangement, municipalities will be tasked to partner in the ranta. Although this practice had no legal basis before, it was applied in some provinces, and was not successful, so it was abandoned. When the streets and streets aren't run by municipalities and run by other people, there won't be any change in the car park mafia complaints. The system will come to our attention with more complicated problems than today's problems, considering that people called parking mafias will not involve others in the city's tender. When the streets and streets are run as a parking lot by municipalities, what will happen to citizens and business owners who live on that street and on that street? Finally: If such an arrangement is to be made, it is important that these services be performed for free or for very little. Under Article 4 of the Law proposal, it is stated that air transport vehicles and motor parts can be rented financially for at least two years, and will be assessed in the terms of financial rental. As in another article, it is important to remove this from the text of the law because it will be a matter of legal regulation in its original commission. The 5th article contains regulations concerning firefighters who have won exams and who have not been appointed for various reasons. We find this arrangement correct, and we consider it appropriate that these non-assigned fire crews be assigned to these missions immediately. Dear lawmakers, it is true that practices under the name of pirate taxi drivers, in particular a card, cause unfair competition. However, why is there a piracy taxi? The government must eliminate the reasons that drove the citizen to piracy. The government must make an effort to solve the problems of the taxi driver, the van driver, the small tradesman. Again, it is important for this taxi driver, van driver, small tradesman to solve problems, providing cheap fuel and tax reductions, solving parking space problems for these taxi drivers. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute all of you for taking the trouble to listen at this time of night.
tbmm-2012-05-29sit06spe0164par0259	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Your Grace. Congressmans, this will not be enough time since the talks on behalf of groups are at least 20 minutes and we are close to the end of our work period. Therefore, in accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (May 30th) at 14 p.m. to discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
