tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you five minutes to roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] Congressmans, we've got enough meetings, we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, following the holiday phase of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I wish that the 24th term, which I served, for the second year of life, would bring peace and peace to our country and our nation in this first union that we have made together. The Great National Assembly of Turkey, where national will and public sovereignty prevails, is the most powerful source of rise and development. This institution, which is the heart of democracy and is the center of freedoms, has been successful in creating solutions that have always opened the way for our nation and our country, and continues to be the hope of our people in a high sense of responsibility, and to provide solutions to our country's problems in the interests of our nation. In this legislature, our House will work for the sake of our nation's peace and well-being and the fulfillment of our national goals. I believe our lawmakers will make the necessary effort not to be at all able to capture the language of agreement with democratic maturity, political law and construction. The most important agenda for our Parliament in the year of the second legislature of the 24th term is the new constitution. I'd also like to share the same opinion that all of our MPs, who I served under the Turkish Grand National Assembly, share the same opinion that terrorism is a crime of humanity. A strong will must be demonstrated against the networks of terrors and terrors that seek blood, bloodshed, and that will should never be sacrificed to political competition. On this occasion, the 24th Year of the Second Legislature, I hope that the work of the General Assembly will be more respected, more efficient on the basis of love and tolerance, and I wish our efforts to strengthen our social peace and unity, and I salute you all. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement is from Ankara MP Nurdan Şanlı, who wants to mention the 89th anniversary of Ankara's capitalisation. Here you go, Mr. Glorious.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0002par0020	Mr. President, my dear MPs, I have taken an off-the-book oath on the 89th anniversary of Ankara's capitalization, and I hereby salute the General Assembly. According to Ankara's history, we see Ankara's history extends to Hattis, the most important civilization of Anatolia, and according to historical sources, the name of the city that received Ankara's first name in the early 20th century, the name of the city that had been named after Galats, after the Turkish settlement in Anatolia, has later been recorded as "Egüru" and "Angora" (Angara). The Ottomans seized Ankara in 1354 in the time of Orhan Bey, and later the city that was taken by the Karamans was staged in various wars. The most important is the Ankara War, which resulted in the defeat of Yıldırım Bayezid to Timur. In 1413, Ankara was fully integrated into Ottoman territory and became a banner in the state of Anatolia. Following the defeat of the Ottoman Empire from the First World War and the signing of the Mondros Armistice Treaty, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk set out in Samsun to launch the national struggle on May 19, 1919, the Amasian Generalship of Amassia was set up on 21-22 June 1919, and then the Congress of Erzurum and Sivas came together. As a result of the congresses, between the executive body of the State of Istanbul and the State of Istanbul, 20-22 October 1919, the Amasian Talks were held, and as a result of these talks, the Committee was officially recognised by the Ottoman government. Mustafa Kemal thought it would be appropriate for the Liberation War to be led from Ankara due to its geographical and strategic position. He and his friends arrived in Ankara on December 27, 1919 and were greeted with great enthusiasm. Ataturk, who was settled in the Agriculture Institute, would now conduct his studies here and at Ankara Station, where he is considered a museum today, staying in the Ataturk House. Ankara was now the center and headquarters of the Liberation War. After the signing of the Lausanne Agreement on 24 July 1923, the government's headquarters came to the attention of 15 MPs on 9 October 1923, offering the Turkish Grand National Assembly the law, offering Ankara to become the capital. In the final paragraph of the proposal for Ankara to become the capital of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we propose and propose the adoption of the lower law clause to begin the development and development of the state's headquarters in a new way, to end internal and external hesitations. Ankara is now the capital of the new state, with a single-point law adopted in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 13 October 1923. Ankara's strategic, geopolitical and geographical position has played a major role in becoming the capital. Ankara, which entered into a major development and change after it became the capital, is the heart of Turkey, which has been stored in memory since the republic's declaration. Today, the city's plan, as well as its facial measurement and population, is among the number-one cities of the world, with services in all areas such as education, culture, health, transport, industry. Our capital Ankara has also become a very important settlement with historical tourist destinations and places of employment. During our rule, our capital became a brand-new city, so steps were taken in every area and served by our Ankaran citizens, who deserve the best of everything. Also, among our 2023 goals, Ankara has been set to target 2023 of our targets, and they have begun to implement these goals and continue at a very rapid pace. With the support and confidence of our Ankara residents, we will continue to march forward and serve them. As I finish here, I am celebrating the 89th anniversary of Ankara's capitalization, with respect to the General Assembly once again.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0003par0030	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement is from Tekirdağ MP Emre Bridgelü, who wants to discuss the 100th anniversary of the Balkan wars.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0004par0034	Mr. President, I have received a pledge for the 100th anniversary of the Balkan wars. On this occasion, my compliments to the General Assembly. The Balkan wars, which began on 8 October 1912 and caused irreparable losses, are one of the most painful pages in our history. It has been a century since the Balkan wars that ended the Ottoman state's existence in the Balkans and led all countries in the region to fight among themselves. There are hundreds of thousands of dead and wounded and, of course, millions of people driven from their homes, from their native lands. The Balkans are a region of intersecting continents, beliefs, cultures, civilizations and nations. Because of its geopolitical position, mountain geography, and the constant interference of external forces, particularly in the region, the communities that live here have not been able to blend and integrate. They remained in the target of global forces because they could not meet in a common denominator in a nation's identity, especially when the Ottomans were weakened, and they were brought into a conflicting structure through the provocation of beliefs, ethnic identities. Therefore, war and conflict have not been missing in the Balkans throughout history. This region is now the top of the most stressful areas in the world. As a result of the Balkan wars, valuable lawmakers not only lost a great deal of land in the Ottoman state, but as a result of the wars, a major massacre on Turkish and other Muslims living in the region led to genocide. Not only in the Balkan region, but today, Edirne, Kırklareli, Tekirdağ are under Bulgarian occupation for months, and Thrace has experienced the worst atrocities in its history. According to historians, 650,000 Turkish-Muslims were killed during this period, while 1 million Turks were forced to emigrate to Anatolia and East Thrace, leaving their land, their goods for fear of life. Dear lawmakers, it is very important that the genocide committed on our descendants at that time was a common national policy of other states. Ethnic identities, imperialist states fueling religious differences, are blind, deaf, dumb. A similar policy of genocide then occurred and repeated in the Srebrenica massacre between 92 and 95 years later in the Bosnian War. People living in the Balkans were slaughtered because they were different, their goods were seized. Dear lawmakers, the Balkan Wars show us clearly that rather than simply meeting in the identity of human beings, it is very important to demonstrate how fueling ethnic identity and belief differences can affect people, communities, and individuals, and how deeply they can't be compensated for. A similar policy of the imperialist states in the Balkans a hundred years ago that fueled ethnic identity and belief differences that turned the region into a pool of blood is happening today in the Middle East -- a hundred years later, unfortunately -- and similar to the process of the Balkan War. The basis of what happened in the Middle East today is that people who live together again are separated from each other on the basis of identity, faith, and sectarian differences, and those differences are motivated by wars, conflicts. Actors behind the scenes are no different. The Republic of Turkey is a country with historical memory and a history. The painful memories of our memories should make us experience. I say that in the Middle East or Turkey, to conduct a policy that provokes sectarian differences, to put these dynamites in society, not to learn from history, but to be responsible for events that happen or happen. On this occasion, in the 100th year of the Balkan wars, I bless those who lost their lives, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0005par0044	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu, who wants to speak on the same subject again.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0006par0048	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The Balkan wars, the Balkan disaster, are really not a well-known incident in Turkey today, because we see in some places that we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Balkan wars. A number of meetings such as the Balkan wars are being held. The Balkan wars, however, began yesterday, October 8, 1912, as our congressman has just said, and the first term continued until May 30th, and the Ottoman Empire lost its most important territory in the Balkans. At the beginning, Albania, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Greece's Thessalya region, the region to Yanya, the army was forced to retreat to the Çaktica line of Thessaloniki and Western Thrace and even today's Turkey. The Clamo-Enez line was considered a frontier, and Edirne fell into the hands of Bulgarians. The second phase began in June and lasted until 1913 until September 29th because the Balkan states disagreed about sharing the lands they acquired and clashed with each other. As a result, the Ottoman State took the Edirne region, and Bulgaria landed in the Aegean Sea, with an agreement between them. Dear lawmakers have lost a significant population beyond the loss of land during this war, as well as the Ottoman state. In this area, more than 4 million people lived, 51 percent of the land in this region were made up by Muslims, Turks, and after the war, 83,000 immigrants could only reach Turkey, while around 630,000 immigrants died from disease and attacks by various people and states. When we look at it in general, we can say that the amount of immigrants in the Balkan wars and previous Balkans, including 93 Wars, had reached about 5.5 million -- along with the Caucasus (Kaucasian) -- was 35 per cent of Turkey's population at that time. Why did this war turn out to be against the Ottoman Empire, and how did it come about? In fact, what phases do wrong policies lead governments to? One of the biggest examples of this has been seen in the Balkan wars. In Turkish today's Party of Pushhat and Terakki, the unity and development, the development party deposed Abdulhamit, deposed him on 27 April 1909, and banished him to Thessaloniki. In Abdulhamit's Balkan policy, the church's Orthodox churches were organized separately in independent churches in the Balkans -- monitoring measures and policies to prevent their merger in the Balkans -- but after the Jön Turks deposed themselves, they abandoned Abdulhamit's policy and united opposing churches at a meeting in Macedonia. After this meeting, Bulgarians, Serbs, Greeks and Montenegrins met, and Montenegro first waged war. That's how the war started, but one of the policies that the Ottoman regimes again failed and did wrong was that they discharged 70,000 soldiers already under arms in the Balkans. As a result, the Ottoman state suffered the Balkan disaster, and the Balkan disaster experienced one of the major disasters, tortures, and persecutions that Europe had ignored, ignored, said that it really respected human rights. Dear lawmakers, if the government of a state, as we have seen in history, takes a wrong step, the consequences of that misstep could be catastrophic. Therefore, government rulers need to be very careful about everything and learn from events like this in history and experience. As a matter of fact today, if you say that we will unite the opposition groups in Syria, there is a very good chance that tomorrow you will be in great trouble as well. So in the 100th year of the Balkan wars, I wanted to commemorate and inform you of this disaster. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0007par0057	Thank you. Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0008par0061	Mr. President, thank you. We, the National Movement Party Group, celebrate the 89th anniversary of Ankara's capitalisation. For us, Ankara is the capital of the capital. Ankara is the expression of the Turkish nation's love for independence, Ankara is the name of the republic's honour, guarantee and excitement to move into the future. Ankara is the guarantee of our existence, the maker of our future, and the umbrella of our nation's unity and integrity. The decision to become the capital of our beloved city, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who has the idea and the say-so, all the founding heroes have the blessing of God, all of which we honor as the National Party of Action. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0009par0064	Thank you. The other members of the group's vice president's demands on this matter... no. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0010par0067	Mr. President, we have a brief request.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0009par0068	It's not on my app, Mr. Tanal, you know.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0011par0069	We have a request, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0010par0070	The other presidents do, so why don't you?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0009par0071	I'm having the thesis read: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Cemil Cicek, was accepted on October 15th, 2012, at the 2nd Union of the Grand Assembly of Hungary, dated 2 October 2012, to respond to the invitation of Hungarian National Parliament President Laszlo Kover. The names reported by political party groups are submitted to the information of the General Assembly, dated 28/3/1990, under Article 2 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, 3620. [[Adana]] [[Bolu]] [[Kütahya]] [[Şanlıurfa]] It has been presented to your knowledge. There are resignations from the commission, I'm having them read: 8.10.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I'd like to resign from the membership of the Grand National Commission of Public Economics. 8:10.2012 I'm resigning from the Plan Budget Commission membership I'm running because of my workload. I wish you knowledge and necessity. Yours truly. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In an effort to investigate the causes of business accidents in our country and determine the measures needed to be taken, the Constitution is 98. And the TBMM subcommittee 104 and 105. In accordance with the clause, we respectfully request and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation. [[♪ Heromarash ♪]] [[Aydın]] [[İzmir]] [[Mersin]] [[Kastamon]] [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] [[Slap]] [[Kütahya]] [[Adana]] [[Elizipt]] 12) Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu [[Osmaniye]] [[Adana]] 14) D. Ali Torlak [[İstanbul]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Scholarship]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[Adana]] Long working hours, low wages, unhealthy and insecure working conditions increase business accidents in our country. According to Labour Health and Occupational Safety Assembly data, 396 workers were killed in business accidents in Turkey in the first nine months of 2011, while 2,453 workers were injured in various places. Business accidents are common in our provinces, especially in Istanbul, Marseilles, Zonguldak, Izmir, Ankara, Adana, Eskişehir, Tekirdağ, Malatya, Bursa, Kolya, and Kahramanmarash. Business accidents in our country often occur in shipyards, mines, construction, energy, metal, cement, seasonal agriculture, textiles, and leather businesses. In this line of work, traffic accidents, deaths, and injuries are often seen in high fall, crush and poisoning, or seasonal labor. Business accidents in the world and in our country are among the most important problems faced in working life. Every year, an average of 1.2 million people die from business accidents. In our country, business accidents continue to be a major problem in working life, and thousands of people working in different sectors lose their lives every year. Often, unsanitary and insecure working conditions are among the most important factors of business accidents caused by untrustworthy behavior by employees. Long working hours and low wages are also shown among the factors responsible for business accidents. The worst result of a work accident is the loss of a person's life, temporarily or permanently unable to function. On the other hand, business accidents have a negative effect on the health and safety of employees. At the same time, business accidents affect the public in terms of the health and safety of the worker and the results, as the business directly or indirectly affects the production process. This is because business accidents create social and economic costs for the economy of the country and the economy of the country, labor, employer, and society. Therefore, the Constitution is 98 on the basis of the investigation of the causes of business accidents in our country and the necessary measures to be taken. and 104 and 105 of the TBM Administration. A Parliamentary Research Commission shall be established under the clause. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the reasons and consequences of the forced migration in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions after the 1990s and the opening of Parliamental Research under Article 104 and 105 of the Constitution in order to investigate social, economic and cultural problems created in society. [[Pain]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 14) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] [[Van]] Every year, millions of people in the world have to migrate for many reasons, such as economic, social, security, health, natural disasters, or better living conditions. Migrations are divided into certain categories: internal or external migration, either voluntary, mandatory, political, legal and illegal, depending on the reasons or the way they make decisions. According to the way the decision was made, migrations are classified as "opposed migration" or "forced migration" or "forced migration." If the immigration decision was voluntary by humans, there is either a voluntary migration or a "voluntary migration." Unsympathetic migration is a form of migration due to the forced expulsion of the population from its settlement or because political and socioeconomic conditions make life impossible. This form of migration is described in the sociological literature as "forced" or "forced migration." As a result of the migration movement in Turkey, sometimes socio-economic or political conditions have led to four major population movements in the history of the Republic: - The population exchanges of Turkey's relations with its neighbours are being reorganised within the framework of a nation-state-building project in the early part of the Republic. - The mandatory immigration policies in the 1920s and 1930s, and especially in the context of the 1934 housing code, followed by riots in the East and Southeast. - Starting in the 1950s in the 1960s and 70s, and continuing to decline until today, the rise of industrialization in Turkey, and especially because of socioeconomic reasons for agriculture and socioeconomics, moving to urban centers in the south and west, where industry and machine farming are concentrated in masses and in hopes of finding jobs in northern, eastern and domestic parts of the country. Obligatory immigration policies for Kurds whose number was 4 million in the conflicting environment in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions between 1984 and 1999. The obligatory migration has had severe consequences in Turkey, especially in the East and Southeast regions. Thousands of acres of forest land have been burned in the region over the past 20 years, and fields and orchards have been rendered unusable. However, factors such as the curfew, minening land, preventing agriculture in areas outside the village have brought the region's main source of livelihood, agriculture and animalism, to the point of collapse, and rural socioeconomic dynamics are almost completely destroyed. There have been many casualties during and after the forced migration. People's goods and properties have been destroyed, and in many cases the remaining goods and properties have been seized by the rangers, and people who are active in the rural economy have become consumers in a mass of mass production. People who were torn from their habitats had to migrate to urban centers in the area and outside the region without being shown anywhere. Sadly, the traumatic effects of this extremely painful process remain. The mandatory immigration value resulted in an incalculable loss of life and property, a serious decline in Turkey's human rights; Turkey in the international arena has been condemned to pay compensation to its citizens. The mandatory migration has resulted in a radical overturn and extensive destruction of political, cultural, social, social, economic, environmental and urban life and infrastructure, adding socioeconomic pressures on dense migration cities. Therefore, it is inevitable that a parliamentary research commission will be established in order to find a solution by investigating the consequences of the forced migration and the impact it has caused in society. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We have about 8.5 million disabled citizens with physical, hearing, sightings, mental disability, and continuous diseases, which is 12.3 per cent of our total population. This problem directly affects about 25 million citizens, as well as our disabled people. Studies have shown that our disabled people face problems such as education, employment, future anxiety, poverty and accessibility. Although the problems of our disabled people have been expressed on various platforms and times, the current government remains insensitive to this problem. In order to take effective and lasting measures to address the problems of our disabled, the 98th Constitution, the 104th, and 105th of the TBM Council. In accordance with the clauses, the Commission of Research is established, and we respectfully offer and offer to investigate the problem. [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Batman]] [[Pain]] [[Bitlis]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Van]] In our country, the problems of disabled citizens and the laws to address these problems have been extended for a long time, but the law and other regulations made by acting as a social state are slow. The lack of co-ordination and disorganisation of many public institutions and organisations related to the services of disabled persons under the regulation. Despite legal and other legislation regulations, problems continue in many areas, including maintenance services, monthly commitments, education, employment and accessibility. The lack of legal rights to care for those in need of care is easily understood from SCHKEK data. As of September 2011, 10,831 people receive a total of 350,017 care services, including 339,186 people in private or official care centres. Aside from the low number of care providers, the lack of trained staff to offer professional assistance and support that families need has been clearly highlighted in the report of the State Control Board, with low quality of care and lack of infrastructure. The number of disabled persons under the age of 18 who are unable to work or work under the rule of 2022 is 208 euros, while the number of disabled persons over 18 years of age is 208 euros or $313. Given today's conditions, this amount is not enough for our disabled citizens to live their lives in a manner worthy of human dignity and dignity. As of the deadline, the pay-off period is due to years of bureaucratic barriers and the need for the approval of more than one public institution. It is also an obstacle for the disabled to be considered beyond the limit of poverty if they have an income of $100.37, and to have one of their parents' record of the SGK. The problems of our disabled people in the field of education also await immediate solutions. In Article 15 of Law 5378, "The education of disabled persons cannot be prevented for any reason. Retarded children, young people and adults are granted equal education with special circumstances and differences, integrated environments and non-impaired ones," he said. The sentence is in place. As the number of disabled students across Turkey approaches 300,000, the number of private education schools and institutions is 965, and only 48,183 students. In our country, only one of the five disabled is in the labour market. One of the main reasons for this situation is that the disabled are deprived of vocational education, as well as that public and private sector employers do not have effective incentives and punishment practices. The 4857 Work Act and the Law of State Officers No. 657 are not complied with disability employment quotas at both public and private sector workplaces. According to the Turkish Employment Association's September 2011 data, there are a total of 24,142 open-impaired workers in the public sector, 997 in the private sector, 23.145 in the private sector. As of October 2011, 100,900 disabled people are waiting for work. According to data from the State Staff Office in August 2011, the number of disabled officers available in public institutions and institutions is 23,360. Even this data alone is enough to show the government's view of our disabled human being. Law 5378 is temporary. It has given public institutions and institutions some tasks related to the access of disabled persons and has given them until 2012 to carry out these tasks. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Responsibility was approved on 27,05,2009. Therefore, after 2012, lawsuits against our country will be inevitable in domestic and international courts. It would be appropriate and appropriate to set up a research commission to take effective and permanent measures to address the problems of our disabled citizens mentioned in several topics above. It has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not to open a parliamentary investigation will be held at the appropriate time. There's a motion for a parliamentary investigation. The motion has been printed and distributed to the members. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose a parliamentary investigation into Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. With all due respect. İstanbul MP Recep Tayyip Erdogan 61. He's the Prime Minister of the Government. On 17 August 2012, nine lawmakers from the Peace and Democracy Party, Şemdinli, gave an image of the PKK's terrorist organization as being incompatible with its militants and its MP, which rightly disturbs the public. At that, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at an extended group meeting at the AKP headquarters on September 5, 2012 that he had ordered the judiciary to remove the immunity of these MPs. In his statement, the Prime Minister said that after criticizing the MPs' stance, they should be tried and their immunity was lifted, and we have already told the judiciary what is necessary. And the judgment does its due. We'll do what's necessary in parliament. The prime minister's words have sparked a reaction to great surprise and respect for the law in each section. In the face of this openly political intervention to the judiciary, HSYK Head İbrahim Okur, who had not been able to conceal his surprise, also expressed his dissension in the event, stating that it would be a slip of the tongue. Again, many journalists, lawyers and politicians expressed their reaction. Article 9 of the Constitution has given jurisdiction to independent courts on behalf of the Turkish nation. The second joke of Article 138 is that no body, authority, or person can give orders or instructions to the courts and judges in the use of the authority of the judiciary; he cannot send them to the general; he cannot advise them or give them advice. Article 257 of Article 2537 of the Turkish Penal Code, article 277, charges of abuse of office, charge of affecting the person acting as a judge, Article 288, and the charge of affecting fair trial. It is a clear violation of judicial and judicial independence that the Prime Minister, whose constitutional mandates and powers are set, direct the legislative body against the constitution using the resources of the executive officer. The unsupervised use of the executive officer leads to abolition of the judicial security, a violation of the separation of forces, thus opening the way for the establishment of an unsupervised single man's regime. In this case, an immunity from any audit would be revealed, which is the dissolution of the democratic state of law, which directly finds its testimony in Article 2 of the Constitution. The Prime Minister's decision to instruct judicial bodies by using the executive officer in such an excessive, unlawful manner constitutes the crime of Articles 257, 277 and 288 of the Turkish Penal Code. The threat of the parliamentary terrorist meeting, which led the prime minister to order and instruct the judiciary, cannot give the prime minister the right to intervene in the judiciary. Under the excuse to fight terrorism, practices that will eliminate independence of the judiciary, the law state and democracy, which will lead to a one-man dictatorship, cannot be justified. In our country in recent years, the siege of the judiciary, the creation of a judiciary under orders and direction, the politicalisation of the judiciary is the most dangerous process the AKP government has ever created. The Prime Minister has committed crimes by ordering and instructing the court, as he has acknowledged. For these reasons, we demand and demand the opening of a parliamentary investigation under Article 107 of the Constitution and 100th Amendment. In Article 100 of the Constitution, the Parliament shall discuss this request within a month at the latest and decide. The recommendation for the meeting of the parliamentary inquiry motion will then be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has two papers, and I will have them read separately and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The discovery and examination of members of the Commission of the Commission for the Council of Parliamental Investigations, with the aim of providing the Compulsory Development and Development of Our Country, has been met with the approval of the General Assembly with the approval of the Commission for Research and Review in New Zealand, the Republic of South Korea and the Federal Republic of Germany, as well as the number of members of the Commission to go, and the duration of the review by the Turkish Grand Assembly. It is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly It has been agreed that the Commission for Assembly Research, established with the aim of providing the Companies of Special Talented Children's Exploration, Education and Development of Our Country, will seek research and study in New Zealand, the Republic of South Korea and the German Federal Republic, the number of members of the Commission and the duration of the study will be established in the 5th Union of the TBMM General Assembly dated 09,10,2012. According to this, the Commission's proposal for study abroad is approved by the General Assembly, which is also seen as appropriate by our presidency. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Our commission has completed its study of information from experts in the field of superior talent. In light of the information presented, it has been seen that it is necessary for the study of foreign specimens in place and to create a unique structure for our country. In this regard, the training of the top talent is conducted by 21 of our Commission's 02/10/2012, in the United States of New Zealand, the Republic of South Korea, and the Federal Republic of Germany. It's unanimous at the meeting. Under the Commission's Decision and the programmes presented at 2pm, it is important that subcommittee members of the Subcommittee Committee, representing our Commission, are involved. I respect your appreciation. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The Party of Peace and Democracy has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no consensus among political party groups, I respectfully submit our group's proposal to be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Institution. On 6 February 2012, Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan and his friends (521 rows) suggested that the Parliamentary Research Council, which was given to the Turkish Parliament to investigate "the Syrian policy of the State of Turkey and its Government," would be read in the following proposals to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly, and read in the presentations of the talks on Tuesday 09.10.2012. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement in favour of the group's proposal, Sırrı Süzeyya Önder, İstanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0341	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. The Syrian declaration of war has been approved here, its borders have been made uncertain; its technical destination, which borders the country, and who has been targeted. For aspirin, every trouble has been passed through this House of War. Those who voted yes to this thesis did not wonder or wonder, but stopped them from expressing their curiosity. There is another goal that is not specified on the map of the thesis, which is directed at the conscience of mankind, which also includes it. Only countries do not have rules of engagement, and mankind has rules of engagement, and everything that will lead to the heart of the conquistadors will pass through the history of mankind in an unpleasant way, and only God will bless those who swallow to be remembered with it. So, how did he get here? Without knowing it, we wander through the vortex of Syria, Iraq, or Iraq, and what did they do, and what did we do? It is useful for him to understand how he began historically, why he came here. This is the first step in preparing for the bloodiest Kurdish wars in the history of this country, this is the first. Because no political power that has not been tested in the military is a political power; it is absurd when you have an Enver Pasha-like Foreign Minister in a desire to order the Middle East. Why Kurdish war? Although the Kurds in Syria alone have come out of their own free will and expressed their demands to govern themselves in unarmed, bloodless, peaceful language and insist upon all international public opinion, the language the government uses today is the reason for a direct war against a people there. The Kurds deserve an assessment as much as any other, if they're not worthy of being targeted by something like this because they're Kurds, because they've become Turkish, because they've become Turkish. What did power do? At first, they said, "Sir, the Kurds there are not just PYD. The PYD is already a spokesman for the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), it's a reflection. So that was the first song that was played. We've heard this song a lot. But then they asked for their opinion. Why'd they ask you? When it was discovered that almost all of the organized Kurds there were under the control of PYD, under his control, his volunteer audience and his organizational structures, they said: "Sir, we will not allow the construction there, we will consider it a cause of war." That's the first reason. The second reason is that there is a paradigm in the Middle East. I've said this over and over again here. It was a seesaw until Obama. Obama and his surroundings developed a new approach, called the optimistic view, and they were moved to distance themselves from the dictatorship-colored structures in the region, with this seesaw on one side of Israel, with Iran, Syria and Lebanon on the other side. They told Iran and Israel to step back. They told Mr. Davutoglu and Mr. Erdoğan to take a step forward. That's the new setup the system set up. But our Foreign Minister is acting on two things: he believes in his doubts, and in the matter of understanding, his arrogance is able to comprehend many things. They thought it was from them. They couldn't read that it was a big system game, a big system design, and they hit this plan with their deployment in the first line of the Blue Marmara incident. The system found that there's not much going to do with it, and now the job is to get out of Syria that you lost in Israel, let's act fast, we're out of the system, let's make it up to Syria. It will solve the logarithm, what is the big system preparing for, and what is it exporting? It will solve the logarithm, really, there is no one in this cabinet. I don't. Developments have shown that the great strategic genius is limited by recommending Sharik Tara (Sariq) instead of Assad (Assad). Won't they ask you, brother Bre, that's it, if you're going to fit in with a Shirk Tara, why did you make so many communities break up with each other? There's no answer.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0013par0350	It's not Sherry Tara.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0351	I'm sorry, yeah, okay, I'm fixing it. Now, if the problem there was just a change of man, you didn't have to be so full of shit. Now, they've come, they've reduced this issue to an armed dimension. Again, on this platform, I gave an example when the war thesis was going out again, and it was like, "Well, if you have a problem here, where you really build peace, where people live together as brothers, then the Kurdish people have a great opportunity for you, for all the Middle Eastern peoples, for all the people in the Middle East. This is what he offers us when he's doing the math: They will take all the steps, they will take all the precautions; they will take all the precautions; they will take all the attacks; they will take all the opportunity; they will take all the opportunity. That's the gist of the plan. They'll stay put, we'll do what we want. It's supposed to be developed. But today, when we look at world political history, we find that this is not the case, and that world war has always been a result of this kind of unprepared, ambitious approach with high ambition. At this stage, it's a great weakness to think that people have a say in their fate. Today, the Prime Minister appreciates in detail what is to be given to the Kurds, how the Turkmen will not be able to do their job -- however not to come -- but the system that is being created here... [[The microphone was turned off by the automatic device.]] Is it over? My speech is ten minutes?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0014par0356	You know the drill, Mr. Commander. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0358	So I arranged my speech accordingly. Then give me a minute or two, and I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0014par0359	Please. Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0361	The indicator here is 20 minutes...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0014par0362	I know, it's right, it's wrong, it's been ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0363	If it's wrong, you'll pay for it.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0014par0364	That's what your group vice president warned him about.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0365	Then give me a minute or two, and I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0015par0366	Mr. President, give me a few more minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0012par0367	But when I saw 20 minutes in there...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0016par0368	No, no, we don't have that app, Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0017par0369	Mr. President, he needs to collect his speech.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0018par0370	Mr. President, let him pull it together.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0019par0371	I don't insist, at least give me a minute or two to wrap it up.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0372	Thank you. Mr. Commander, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0019par0374	But your technical table...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0375	No, I'm not, Mr. Commander, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0019par0377	I don't insist on 20 minutes, just give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0378	No, I can't, Mr. Commander, because...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0021par0379	Mr. President, you did it wrong. You gave him 20 minutes, Mr. Orator set him up. Give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0380	That's right; I did it wrong, and you warned me, so I'm going to fall. I said, OK, you know.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0021par0381	Mr. President, just a minute...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0382	No, he knows the time. No, everybody knows it's ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0022par0383	I haven't even gotten into it yet.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0021par0384	Mr. President, I'd like you to put your word...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0385	But in the future, the other groups want it, Mr. Commander, please. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0021par0387	One minute, he says.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0388	No, no...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0023par0389	Just a minute... groups don't object.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0390	They don't object. They don't object, they don't object, they ask for words. Thank you, Mr. Commander.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0024par0392	Mr. President, in order to make up his mind...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0025par0393	When I saw 20 minutes, I made my point. And I don't insist on 20 minutes. Just give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0394	Please, Mr. Commander, understand. Please...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0026par0395	Mr. President, you're going to have to make a formal argument here.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0396	Mr. Commander, thank you, there's nothing else I can do.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0027par0397	So I'm thanking you, too. There's been a mistake.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0028par0398	You can make that decision because of a mistake, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0399	Please, Mr. Commander... the rest of the groups want a word, then, Mr. Commander. We won't break the rule. Thank you, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0029par0401	Mr. President, let's just say there's a big plague on both sides of this war, and everyone can take credit for it.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0020par0403	Thank you. The Peace and Democracy Party has asked for a statement against the group's proposal Mehmet Shandır, Mersin MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0030par0407	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the agenda of the Party of Peace and Democracy to bring up the motion for a commission to investigate the agenda of the Assembly this week. The form requirement requires a positioning on the side, on the contrary, but when it comes to Syria, I see a necessity to express our views as the nationalist Movement Party. Dear friends, as a result, today there is a civil war in Syria. In Syria today, Muslim blood flows in the war against his opponent and his regime; his brother slaughters his brother. That's the result. We can't eliminate this result by questioning the cause, blaming each other. Unfortunately, in our region, a number of projects have long since been in place, and with the weapons given by the owners of that project, the people of this region are breaking each other up. The Republic of Turkey has been at a distance from internal conflicts since the beginning of the state of the Republic of Turkey. In order to ensure peace in this region, the state of the Republic of Turkey, which is a very important actor in this region, the position of the Republic of Turkey will not interfere in such conflicts, as a statement has established the principle of peace, not as an expression of inadequacy, but as a foreign policy strategy, the state of the Republic of Turkey, and we have not been able to participate in internal conflicts in this region until today, but what a global project is building on us today, and what a global project is building on us, and what a global project is building on us today. But we haven't reached us yet. Unfortunately, we're dealing with the big house, the audience, even the wrong attitude, the wrong attitude, and we're dealing with it. Dear friends, but the result is that in Iraq, Libya, and other Muslim countries, this fire, which is referred to as "Spring," is death, destruction as a result, and unfortunately, if you look at all the periods of history in areas of civil war, then there's no way of living together. That's how the Balkans broke up, that's how the Middle East broke up, that's how Africa broke up. Now we're coming to the game of global forces who have lived together for hundreds of years, whose blood has been mixed with their blood, by separating people over a difference, by turning them into factions, by tearing apart this geography, and by easily controlling these smaller parts, by running their own projects. As the National Movement Party, that's why the ruling party, the AKP government, has been critical of Syrian policy or Middle Eastern policy. If you don't know the cause and the consequences of yesterday's events, if you can't analyze them well, as a government in charge of running this country, you can't predict the future, you can't predict the future. What we are experiencing now, unfortunately, is a despair of Turkey's participation in the war, of coming to the brink of war. What are we gonna do? It was October 4, I think it was October 4th, if I remember correctly, or with events after September 20th, when our children lost their lives in the Akchakale district of Şanlıurfa, our children, 12-year-old Ayşegül, eight-year-old Zeynep, 14-year-old Fatosh, their mother Zeliha, and their offspring, Gulshen Özer, lost their lives. We could see that this war would envelop our country, that it would hurt our people, I think the government could see it. The dissertation is not really a war thesis. I mean, what would Turkey do if it didn't use this country's Turkish Armed Forces against those who attacked its own country, against those who killed its own nation? Isn't he going to develop a countermeasure against this attack? So if you attack me, I have to protect myself. Won't he? Please take this epiphany in that sense. But, as a point of origin, I'm afraid that the policies that have been implemented have not been the result of any of the predictions the AKP's ruling in Syria's case. Beşar Assad will go. It has been said that he has not gone. The European Union, NATO countries, the United States will be with us. You couldn't rule out the UN Security Council. As a result, Syria remained in Turkey's lap as a fireball today, and the fire spread to Turkey. What are you going to do? That's why I'm telling you, dear friends, statesman, politician, knowing yesterday, it's imperative that we get this day right and predict the future right. If you don't take enough precautions in your time, that fire will surround you, and in a struggle, you'll continue wrongly. That's why I'm telling you. This is not a statement that we, as the National Movement Party, support the Syrian policies of the AKP ruling, but that we will not allow the attack on Turkey, that all the resources of the Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey should be used for this... that we actually vote yes, not a power, not a mandate. We have commissioned the Turkish Armed Forces to defend Turkey. One thing is that we have experienced yesterday, and we are all suffering from PKK attacks that have been supported by the political entity after the First Gulf War in northern Iraq for 25 years. Aren't we going to develop a countermeasure against the same pain, an attack from Syria? So, the entity in northern Iraq, where we lived in the north of Iraq yesterday, where we welcomed it, protected it, and protected its development, will also be in Syria? What is wrong with taking measures from today to attack Turkey against Syria? The support of the National Movement Party is much more than supporting the government's policies, giving the Turkish Armed Forces a task: do not allow the attack on the Turkish Armed Forces: show the entire world the deterrent power of the Republic of Turkey, its determination in this matter. Two: As in the north of Iraq, we must prevent an area that will become a threat and attack centre for Turkey in the north or northeast of Syria. If we do not, there is no way we can protect the future of the Republic of Turkey and the unity of the Turkish nation. That's the reason the National Movement Party supports this thesis, that's the point. It's a mistake, it's unfair and it's totally bottish, and we can never accept it. So, I don't know what good it would do to set up a commission like that, but that's why I felt the need to express these facts, and I give you all my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0031par0418	Thank you. On behalf of the group's proposal for Peace and Democracy, Osman Kuruturk is an Istanbul MP.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0032par0421	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, last Friday, we agreed to a thesis in this House; we didn't, you did. But during the admission of this thesis, we kept the talks confidential, closed. Closed conversation is understandable. In closed talks, the government comes in, giving parliament, lawmakers information on security, which they don't have to share with others, which they don't need hope to know, at least at the moment, that hopefully doesn't need to be known, specific, but confidential. I'd like to explain from here that in our last Friday -- and I think you're all agreed -- in our meeting, we were given no confidential information, nothing but newspaper information. So you're thinking, why don't we have a closed session, why don't we share what we're talking to people, share it with our people. Is it because we don't want our objections to be heard? Because what do we object to? We can't account for it because we object. There are those who say, Mr. Prime Minister, in the first place. We can't answer for what? There's no such thing as countermeasures, there's no such thing as defaults, it's passed. But if there's a war going on because of that thesis, if our people start dying because of that thesis, if the funerals come to Turkey, will they be able to vote positive for it? Now, we have been condemning the events of Syria from the beginning. We say to the Syrian government: "You can't do this, you can't put pressure on your own citizen, you can't put pressure on your own citizen, the world is changing, we're in the 21st century, but the Syrian regime is applying this pressure. Do we have to go in there when we apply pressure? We offered to calm them down, a four-way meeting, a five-way meeting, as Egypt did today. We said: let's have a meeting in Turkey. Let all come in, let Iran come in, and even the parties of Syria come in, and let those who agree come in, and let us try to make an understanding of them. We try to intervene in the place to do so. We've been against it all along. We say that Turkey's traditional stance is stabilising, in and out of the country. And when we were building stability, we found a pause, trying to calm the disputes, delaying the hard movement to the end. We stood next to one of the conflicting parties, and then we accepted the thesis. I see that many of our friends are anxious to accept the thesis. They're looking for reasons to explain why they agreed to the thesis, but let's think for ourselves, friends. Look, we're saying that we've expanded the rules of engagement. We've aggravated the rules of engagement. What do we call the Angajman rules? Everyone thinks that if there's a law against international law that goes beyond the limits of self-defense, that if there's a bird flying out of here, I'll bomb it. Can they say that? He can't. There is a certain formation of the rules of engagement, in which the rules of engagement are enforced, and the rules of engagement must be in accordance with international law. I believe that's what we're doing. We've established strong rules of engagement, and we've established rules of engagement that would call very small movements provocative. Aren't these rules of engagement enough to be deterrent? Did we, in the late 1990s, make a statement to end Syria's support for the PKK, to end its use of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? We've had the troops committed, we've had the border piled up. Turkey's power has already been established, it has not been compromised. Now, what do we call this dissertation? We say it has no cause for war, no deterrent, no meaning. Well, there's no cause for war, deterrent, why are we saying this? So what's the weight of the thesis, are we bluffing, guys? If we're bluffing, what if we're bluffing? It's a very strange policy. Look, notice that Turkey's Syrian policy, unfortunately in the Middle East, makes Turkey a country like Syria. Strange relationships, different organizations, unknown fighting parties, and we're retaliating because we're following the rules of engagement, and we're retaliating, and we're destroying all the resources and capabilities of one of the parties in that area because we're retaliating. Thus, through our own armed forces, we join this war. Guys, we need to think this through. Look, this country, we all want what's best for this country. For the sake of this country, we really need to go over this Syria issue all over again. We're not in charge, but you're in charge, but the country is all of us. Think about it. Your Secretary of State is a smart man. Let him sit, let him think, can that happen? How are you going to pay for a war like this? Look, we didn't vote for this thesis, we didn't vote for the thesis because we think we can provoke a war and put a man behind me. Turkey is very lonely, but if I start making a move, I want them to come from behind, maybe they'll come to my aid. If he thinks he's wrong, he's wrong. Everyone invites Turkey -- in the old words -- to this point. I advise you to read the interview that your First Secretary of State Yasar Yakış, a former colleague of ours, a respected ambassador and founder of the Justice and Development Party, was given to his newspaper yesterday, today. Yaşar Yakış is an experienced person in the region; he is a respected person in the ministry; he served as a good minister; then after doing other tasks, he continues in politics, but he clearly said how he saw it. Your friend, the founder of your party. Please heed the warnings of Yasar Niceness. It says: "If Turkey enters Syria, it will be very difficult to get out in an environment surrounded by enemies, but its successful exit is near impossible." There's no entry without exit strategy. It's very time-consuming, but you all know that. Syrian policy is an extraordinary wrong policy. It's also doubtful that Middle Eastern policy is correct. I don't know if Middle Eastern politics is being acted on purpose. Look, I'll give you an example: In the last few days, your party, the Justice and Development Party, had a convention; it was a glorious convention. Many foreigners were invited to the convention. Among these foreigners were Halid Meşal, political director of the Palestinian Hamas organization. Halid Meşal came, beautiful, but at the Sabra and Shatilla massacre in the 1980s, 3,500-4. Emin Jamayel, president of the Lebanese Christian Falangists who cut down 5,000 Palestinians, was there. It's nothing that Emin Jamayel was there, and there was Samir Caca, who played a part in the massacre along with Ariel Sharon. How is this done, co-workers, is this done consciously or unconsciously? The massacrers are there, the massacrers are there, they're all guests. We need to review these policies. That's not a policy. Turkey's foreign policy so far has always been a heavy, solid policy. The State Department -- don't look, they say other things, I don't know, they say other things, they have nothing to do with -- is based on people who are extremely selfless, extremely resilient, extremely hardworking, and very well saved. Listen to those people. Those people are probably saying this, and there's no way they can't say it, but I know everything. If you show up, it doesn't happen. But when you don't know everything, we get to this point. Turkey, today... read the foreign press. See what they say in the outside press: a person like Angela Merkel -- who has been in politics for ten years, a man who had previously been raised in East Germany -- invites Turkey to do so. Is Turkey a country to be invited to? This is going to our pain, aren't you going to yours? I think we need to deal with this Syria issue in a very broad way. Not only on this issue, but on the issue of Syria, in a genuine closed session of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where we have no information, no one shares information with us, but we find that information as much as we can, but when we tell the truth, what is it? Why should we be Assad fans, my friends? We never had a reputation or a close relationship with Assad. It's been a long time since your government began. You know him better. You also know the father of Assad. But we also know Faruk Sharia, for example. When we called Faruk El Sharia, a trusted man, the name of Faruk al-Shara was mentioned at the time as the man who actually ordered the martyrdom of 33 of our soldiers in May 1993. When the newspapers wrote that it was for revenge that it came to an agreement, that it had come to an agreement that we had given the waters of the river of the river in 550 cubic meters per second, and that it had come to an agreement, and that it had returned from there, they had done it. I think we should discuss this Syria matter very well, and really, very closely, together. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0033par0437	Thank you. Volcano Bozır, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0440	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, unfortunately, we're going through a process that violates some of the House's obligations. It is the same fate that secret talks have become a quality that keeps the agenda of the House occupied, even though it is often removed from its required size and given to its needs. Parliament is making a decision, there is a secret hearing on the thesis, and whatever was said during the secret session is being repeated on TV, open sessions. That's why I made a promise.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0035par0442	Your party explains it. They had your congressman's speech published.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0443	Since it's been decided by this General Assembly that the issues discussed in a secret session are being repeated in the open session, then I think we have the right to repeat the issues we discussed in the secret session here.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0035par0444	Explain.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0445	Now, first of all, I'd like to say that the purpose of the countermeasure is unclear, is Turkey going to conquer the world with this thesis? Friends, the purpose of the thesis is strictly limited to Syria, as it is written in a thesis text, if it has a rhetorical interpretation, such as a rhetorical comment, and Turkey aims to strengthen its hand against developments in Syria. Look, diplomacy or politics, two things are very important: one is the deterrent, and the other is the element of uncertainty.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0035par0446	And you called it a foreign country. Why didn't you say Syria?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0447	Together with the countermeasures, this deterrent is tried to provide, and when the deterrent is achieved, the element of uncertainty comes into play, and the other person takes action against this deterrent movement, looking at what Turkey is going to do in return, looking at its own scenarios, its own photographs. Now, indeed, while critical of Turkey's foreign policy, representatives of the main opposition party in particular have to respond to one or two issues I said in my speech that day. If a resolution of the Republican People's Party in Socialist International, which is the opposite of what the Republican People's Party is talking about here, and the president of the Republican People's Party, which we are very proud to be there, is elected vice president of the Socialist International, one of the 36 vice presidents of the Socialist Prime Minister, then I will always remember this paragraph of Syria and the statement of the Republican People's Party, which accepts an extremely serious Kurdish paragraph, when he comes here and puts his hand on his conscience as we are critical of Syria or the government's foreign policy. On the Kurdish issue, the PKK will accept a text that puts the terrorist organization in line with the Palestinian Liberation Organization and return to Turkey. He will say, "I was informed of it two days later." After that, I answered it in the mail. He will say, "Did you post stamps while sending it to the Palestinian Liberation Organization?" Where did you send it? We'll ask him if he's taken the other side. They don't answer these things here, they go on and on with the same words. I also asked other questions there.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0036par0450	You're saying the wrong thing there, wrong! You get up there and say the wrong thing to people! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0451	Why did the Republican People's Party officials, who followed the honorable policy during the Republican People's Party's Party, condemn the policies today, not go to the aid of Johnson's letter in 1963, but let our relatives torture and slaughter there from 63-74? Why did you allow Greece to come from a thousand miles away and take over these islands, when you said, "Come, let us give you the names of the Italian commanders after the Second Battle of Jahan." Why couldn't the Republican People's Party, during the foreign policy period, explain in the cold -- because the Prime Minister couldn't fill the oil tankers -- that we came from Ankara to Istanbul in four hours in eight or nine hours with 10 liters of gas coupons? Why couldn't they tell me that I was expected to get a $1m loan at Luxembourg's door?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0037par0453	Mr. Bozır, you don't look good!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0454	Now, if this Republican People's Party is here to criticize Turkey's foreign policy, then it should be a little self-criticizing. Turkey's policies that really only want peace with its neighbours, peace with its neighbours, peace with its policy of zero problems. We are opposed to a Republican People's Party who doesn't know the math account. We're dealing with a main opposition party that doesn't even know how many neighbours Turkey has. Today, Turkey is having the best relations with its thirteen neighbours in the history of the republic.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0038par0455	You don't believe what you're saying!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0456	In this relationship with Syria, we also invest in the future. In the future, if a democratic regime is set up in Syria, which everyone wants, as in Egypt, Libya, and Tunisia, we do so because we are not enemies of Turkey, but wish to neighbour with friendly governments with Turkey. With all this in the open, really, it's like Turkey's out there, fighting everybody, attacking them, not a country with that kind of intention. Turkey has come to its economic state today, its political stability by its fingernails. Turkey has nothing to spend its economic stability under its fingernails on the war or on a hostile relationship with its neighbours. Turkey simply wants to bring its human well-being, its future, to protect its attacks, and to protect its own, it has to take out these statements in a sense. Now, if this had not gone out, and there had been an attack on Syria, or on Turkey from one of our neighbors, there would have been a government and a government that would not have had time to remove it, and a government that would have responded to that, on an international platform, or internationally, in a place where it was right. I also think that my colleagues, who know all this very well, have been at the tables for thirty and forty years, and that my colleagues, who we have rotted together, are not here to inform the General Assembly of the Assembly, but are in fact, in fact, in fact, deeply mistaken. Turkey today has been able to emerge from this political, economic crisis, while countries fail in an environment in which the entire world is struggling in an economic crisis, and in an environment in our region, without any help from the IMF or the EU.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0039par0459	Did you guys just date?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0460	What happens after all? How is it that when you've been leading this economic crisis by asking us all the time, you've been able to come out of this economic crisis with your own rights and not be affected by our economic policies? This whole process of political change, called the Arab Spring, is a shining, democratic, economic stability, and political stability that will set an example for all countries there. Now, when I can be proud of them, I wonder why -- I can't say I'm jealous, but -- I've always felt uncomfortable with Turkey and Syria.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0039par0461	What are we gonna be proud of? Because nine Turkish children died in the Blue Marmara?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0462	Why did we strengthen the hand of Syria and its supporters, when we were able to put what he didn't say into the mouth of Syria, and yet, as always, to maintain only one determination in Turkish foreign policy? We have to answer that question.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0040par0463	We're protecting the interests of our own state, Mr. Bozır.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0034par0464	Thus, perhaps the main opposition party should imitate the National Movement Party. When the National Movement Party came here and did their reviews, it finally voted positive for this thesis using its attitude towards the state. Perhaps it is time for the Republican People's Party to set an example of this exemplary behavior for the future. Mr. President, Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly with these statements.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0041par0467	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0042par0468	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0041par0469	Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0042par0470	Mr. President said we said something we didn't say, Mr. Orator. I'd like to give him a quick answer.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0041par0471	Here you go, Mr. Kurkurk. I promise you three minutes for bullying.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0042par0475	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't have to answer everything they say, not to myself. It's not nice for a friend of mine, who I've worked with for a long time, to get up and say he doesn't know the neighbors of Turkey. Of course, we're not the ones who don't know Turkey's neighbours, but when we say that Turkey is in a bad way with its neighbours, Mr. Minister has counted Ukraine, Romania, it's another matter. Now, about the Socialist International. About the Socialist International, we weren't against the Syrian paragraph there. Our president said we're not against it, and on television, we've said it many times and we've said it many times. Why should we be against it? He says: 'Esad must not slaughter his people. We condemn the massacre of Assad, which he has committed against his people with violence. He says, "We condemn you, and we condemn you." He says, "Don't let the Catholic do it." We say, "Don't let him do it." Assad has lost his legitimacy, he says, we have nothing to say to that. Assad probably lost his legitimacy spiritually, but he's financially legitimate. You'll say why, it's represented by the United Nations Security Council, represented by the United Nations in other countries. He's legitimate, but he's lost his spirituality, so we didn't oppose him, but then he says: "The Syrians must solve their own problems." He calls the armed outside intervention of Syria not a Socialist International fan. Why should we object to that, my friends? We're against what we're up against, and we don't object to it. Now, please, let's end it this time, I've made it very clear. On the other hand, on the Kurdish issue there, the Iranian Democratic Party of Kurdistan and the Iraqi Kurdistan Patriots Union moved on. That's the way it is, spoken at conferences, contained. When he got to Zapta, we said, "We're not going to join them in writing, we're going to the Presidential Court, where Faruk Logoglu is where I am now," and we said, "We're not going to join them in writing." That's the way it is. Among our friends, there are some who don't know these procedures, but I would hope that our friend who just spoke would have known about them because he was a permanent representative in the European Union. Thank you, everyone.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0043par0482	Thank you. I submit the Peace and Democracy Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since there is no unanimous vote among political party groups at a meeting of the Council of Counsellor 09,10,2012 Tuesday (now), I would like to propose that the following proposal be submitted to the General Assembly's approval under Article 19 of the Council. AK PARTY Group Deputy President The Constitutional Amendment Proposal 328, which has been distributed under pressure, has been taken to the fourth order of the Agenda's Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions, and the ranking of other jobs according to this, On Tuesday (October 9, 2012), October 9, 2012, without discussing verbal questions and other audit issues, until the end of the first round of the Constitutional Change Proposal, which is held on the agenda's part of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the end of the first round of the first round of the Constitutional Exchange Proposal No. 328 in this merger; On Thursday (October 11, 2012) until the meeting of the Turkish Armed Forces from the north of Iraq to our country's threat of terror and another year's extension of the Proposals on Bertaraft, the meeting of the Prime Minister's Proclamation and the meeting of the agenda's "Objection of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions," the talks of the 197-point draft bill. Other than the week's working days, 12 October 2012 was held at 2 p.m. on Friday (October 2012), and the end of the second round of the Constitutional Change Proposal on the second round of the Constitutional Exchange Proposal, which was held on behalf of Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu on Friday (October 12th) after the meeting of the 11/13 main geneor motion and the completion of these talks. Until the completion of the daily schedules, which are not completed at 2 p.m. at the top of the list, is completed; Keep up the good work, On Wednesday, October 10, 2012, the unspoken questions were not discussed. It's recommended. Saleh Husband, Eskişehir MP who has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0044par0507	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of our proposal for the AK PARTY group. On Tuesday (October 9th 2012), on Tuesday (October 9, 2012), as part of our proposal for the push of local elections, the Constitutional Change Proposal, and the first round of voting to be held on Wednesday (October 10th), the continuation of the Talks on the Common Business Relations Act, which we had already started to discuss; and also on Thursday (October 12th), the completion of the Constitutional Amendment Proposal (October 11th), and the completion of the second round of negotiations on the threat of terrorism from the north of Iraq (Irak) are being proposed as a late as to talks on the adoption of the European Minister of Public Affairs Law. Following these plans, this week's work has been recommended. I wish our proposals to our country and our nation well, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0045par0511	Thank you. Akif Hamzacebi, İstanbul MP who has asked for a statement against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0046par0514	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we have entered the second week of the year of the legislature, and today we will discuss the constitutional amendment for the adoption of the local election on October 27, 2013, and we will hold the first round of voting. He has no objection to the agenda of the Republican People's Party -- regarding this week's agenda. During this amendment, we will also express our views on early elections. On this occasion, I feel the need to evaluate the following: The proposals of the Justice and Development Party group will often come to Parliament's agenda and will often change the agenda of the Assembly. When we look at the agenda of Turkey's agenda, the issues on the agenda of one week, ten days, the war thesis on Syria, the Prime Minister's messages from the Justice and Development Party on September 30, 2012, the war thesis and the AKP Congress's environment, these are actually on the agenda. Many different views have been made about Syria's declaration of war. We, the Republican People's Party, have expressed our opinion. The ruling party has expressed its views. But the Speaker of Justice and Development Party who just came up here said something, and he caught my attention. The declaration of war concerning Syria is not a war thesis, but is intended only for Syria. He made an assessment. And I'm also very curious to know that this is what we call war. When we say no, we will not interfere with Syria. So this is meant to frighten Syria. He says, Prime Minister, government officials, AKP MPs. But why should Syria fear you if it's meant to scare you? You openly declare to Syria, we took it out to frighten you, so don't worry, we won't attack you. Now, Mr. Speaker, the ruling party Speaker said: "This is only intended for Syria. I wonder if the Prime Minister knows the truth, Mr. Speaker? The Prime Minister gave a speech today, and his sentence is that with this thesis, we can declare war on the world. He's behind the scenes, doesn't open, we'll talk about it when the time and place comes. Yes, the Prime Minister says: "If necessary, we will fight the world." What happens to you, dear friends? Mr. Prime Minister says it's true, it's actually written in such an intention, and the Prime Minister's explanation is in accordance with the spirit of that thesis. Now, who's telling the truth, I'm offering it to you. The AKP congress held on September 30th must be carefully evaluated. In that congress, the Prime Minister went all the way to Turkey's arrival in 1071, making evaluations from Sultan Alparslan. Good, good, of course it's nice to go back to those dates, to go back a thousand years. That's what I care about in terms of understanding how deep our roots are and how much power we can get from there. Yes, we came to Anatolia in 1071. Since then, our direction has always been the West, the direction of the Turkish nation. The Anatolian Seljuklu State, the Great Seljuk State, the Ottoman Empire, and the latest, in the 20th century, the direction of the republic, which we can refer to as the largest modernisation project of the Turkish nation, is the West. We've always headed west, but for the first time, with the AKP Congress on September 30, 2012, Turkey has turned from West to East. Mr. Prime Minister's congressional messages, this is the picture of Congress giving Turkey. Turkey looks like a state preparing to play its role in the East. The photograph, seen from the convention's guests, from Egyptian President to Hamas leader, the leader of the moderate Islamic movement in Tunisia, to other guests, has turned Turkey's direction towards the East. One, there were no guests from the West, there was one, let's face it, former German Prime Minister Schröder. He's in Turkey to protect the interests of a trade consortium with Gazprom, not as the German Prime Minister, and I'm guessing he's in the AKP Congress with that intention. The Prime Minister's congressional messages were interesting. While trying to draw his vision of 2023, the Prime Minister actually drew a vision behind the age. He drew a vision that was unbecoming of 21st century Turkey, written in a hurry, dear friends. I've got vision, I've got 63 visions here. In fact, I strongly advise you to read it, you'll agree with me. So a lot of people wrote it down, and every time they came in, they said, let's not hurt him. It's probably called that, too. For example, the first five articles of this vision are about political parties. I'm reading the 1st article: the complete removal of the closing of the parties. The others are such a small group of remarks, I won't tell them not to take up your time, but the 4th article is to stop shutting down the party. The first of 63 vision clauses are to end the closing of the parties altogether, the 4th party. What is it, guys, that these two sentences are different? It was a document, not a document. Those who tried to draw the 2023 vision had not yet been able to declare the Middle-Time Program in the Official Gazette. (Applause from CHP rows) The Central Timed Program was to be announced in the Official Gazette until September 7th. Everyone wants to know their 2013 economic goals. It would have been announced by the end of May, either it doesn't grow up, or we change the law, the first week of September... you said, you haven't declared it yet, you've declared it today, thank God. There are other things. A number of issues, which AKP had committed to society ten years ago with its Emergency Action Plan, are being promised again by the Prime Minister for the year 2023. What did the Emergency Action Plan say ten years ago in 2002? What does our Prime Minister say now, Mr. Prime Minister, in this vision speech? There will be a new public staff system. Well, you said that ten years ago, and now you want 11 more years so we can build a new staff system. What did you say ten years ago in the Emergency Action Plan? The number and diversity of the courts of the institution will be increased. The year is 2002. The year 2012, I see, will increase the number and diversity of the institutions' courts. The same sentence appears in the vision of 2023. I can multiply them: the difference of development between the regions will be reduced. The same sentence is in the 2012 speech for the 2023 vision. There's a innovation: the number of outside judicial agencies will be increased. The Justice Department staff is now in revolt, and the other ministries have foreign staffs, so send us abroad. He said, "Mr. Minister." He offered it to the Prime Minister, Mr. Prime Minister. He said, "We're done." Congratulations on your vision of 2023. Dear Friends, with such understanding, it is impossible for Turkey to embrace 2023 years. As for the amendment, I would also like to say that I do not think that it is intentionally or unknowingly -- the date of the early election is on October 29th in 2023. This is where I celebrate an understanding that plans to make an election on Republic Day. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0047par0529	Thank you. Mehmet Shandır, MP of Mersin, has asked for a word in favour of the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0048par0531	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. I have taken a pledge in favour of the group proposed by the ruling party group to determine the working programme for the Turkish Grand National Assembly's General Assembly. This proposal determines this week's work schedule. Of course, as we always say, as a ruling group, you have the authority, even the responsibility to determine the working schedule of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, because you're in charge of the nation, but this week is a little different, so this week... we'll see whether you want to or not. It's an obligation to discuss your client, so we'll discuss it. The fact that the issue of constitutional amendment is being raised on October 27th - the issue of the relevant law until a year ago - comes again as a necessity. Thus, the completion of talks on the Constitutional amendment agreed on this week is an obligation ahead of us. Therefore, as the National Movement Party Group, we have received a pledge and will vote in favour of this proposal. Dear friends, the election of local governments -- you know -- is a multi-nominated, very active election. I don't know exactly, but he's probably going to run for over 100,000 candidates in the local government election. The teams of these candidates, their organization, a large part of the community, have been mobilised, but unfortunately, according to the previous law, the elections are held in March according to our current current current rule. As of the changing climate, March is the largest winter month. As the National Movement Party, we have proposed this constitutional amendment or presented it to the community for discussion, our main reason is that these very active and multi-nominated municipalities should be saved from the winter elections; that's our sole goal. I repeat, the parliamentary elections are being held to elect 550 MPs, but the local administration elections are a very active election, including mayors and mayors, and I don't know much, but about 70-80,000 people, of course, including the candidates, including the candidates. It is imperative that this election be made in normal climate conditions. I don't mean that obligation as a word. A dear friend of ours, an MP friend of ours, Muhsin Yazıoğlu, died in a helicopter accident on an election trip prior to the election elections. We have to be grateful and patient. But these choices are not the law of God, it's possible to take this a little bit earlier, take it a little later, with a decision here. This aims to temporarily change the relevant provisions of the Constitution, Article 127. The National Movement Party intended to present this to the public's attention, and after this tragedy, it was considered a measure, and when the ruling group claimed it, it came to you today as a constitutional amendment. That's the point of this, we consider it to be a good cause for lawmaking, but I express my regret here: Now, knowing that this amendment, according to the Constitution, was taken five and a half months ago, you've brought the Metropolitan City Law to the Grand National Assembly without enough discussion, without enough sharing. Dear lawmakers, we know you intend to turn this country from the tip of your neck, we know they're trying to transform this republic, but I want to tell you from here that it's not going to be very easy. I want to say that you can't afford to change the institutional law of the Republic of Turkey. So in order to move Turkey to the presidential system, we're going to discuss this Metropolitan City Law, which intends to separate Turkey from ethnically and form a federal structure, when the time comes, but on what grounds will you explain why you've removed its membership in the city council? Why are you troubled by the will that the nation has put forth to rule itself of its own free will? Therefore, in the shadow of this constitutional amendment, we believe that this Metropolitan City Law, which aims to change the governance system, shape, structure of the Republic of Turkey, should also be brought in, that this imposition should be carried out, that we condemn with violence and hatred and we condemn it. You have no right. So we've come to an agreement on something, a necessity, a necessity. There is death, there is a demand of our nation, but I believe that we will never accept this compromise by exploiting it, and I believe that there can never be a good intention to bring in another law that many of you will hesitate to meet. We're not going to accept that. The way this House starts, it goes. Look, we've really been discussing an agenda for the past two weeks. I agree with Mr. Hamzacebi, so we're not discussing people's agenda, we're discussing other things. We should discuss the public's agenda. People have a raise. In one year, you raised 49 percent of natural gas, up to 49 percent of natural gas from October 1st of last year to October 1st of this year. Today, you're trying to meet the budget deficit by handing out the bread of our citizens with small income and fixed income. Taxes on income. What justice is it to raise indirect taxes... your name is justice, but what you do is fair? We're not talking about this, we're talking about something else. Whatever account it is, whatever program it is, it's the Prime Minister's right to be president, it's his wish, but you have no right to remove Turkey's nail to make him president, and you have no right to disrupt the settlement created here, dear friends. That's why I'm telling you, with all our sincerity, we're making an effort. To solve our nation's problems, we extend our hands with a compromiser, tolerant, open to dialogue, not a problem-maker, a sense of opposition that contributes to solving problems, but then we find out that you're forcing us to accept things that we'll never accept. Don't do this, it won't be smart, this cunning won't do anyone any good, dear friends. If you need a law, you'll discuss it, you'll share it with the community. You even hid this Metropolitan City Law from your own MPs. It's been spoken for a year, we just received it, and you immediately invited the Commission to a meeting, and you're saying you'll bring it to the General Assembly next week. You don't need to do that, you don't need to do that. You're the big party, people vote big for you. Let's talk about people's problems here, in the eyes of this magnitude. People don't care about the Metropolitan City City Law, they're worried about the bread, the people's concern is about countermeasures of terrorist, separatist terrorist attacks. You don't bring anything at this point. So this week we say yes to the discussion of the Constitution, the thesis, the geneor, so we vote yes to this group proposal. We're looking into the Metropolitan City Law, which you're going to impose on this Parliament next week by exploiting our plea of reconciliation, but as we see it, we're going to condemn this law here as a code of treason that will undermine the foundation of this republic. And just so you know, I'm reminding you to prepare well for next week. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0049par0542	Thank you. It's Iron Steel, Mud MP who wants to take a stand against the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0050par0544	Mr. President, I have made a promise against AKP's proposal for a weekly agenda while my highly respected fellow lawmakers salute you with respect and affection on behalf of myself. On this occasion, I would like to share my wishes that the year of the third legislature of the 24th century bring justice, freedom and peace to the peoples of our country. Mr. President, it is possible to discuss a number of different things in these times and processes of our country's people's important agendas and problems, to open the doors of dialogue and negotiations that will solve their problems and problems, while transforming the numberal majority into an opportunity that will not be in the interests of the people of the country, to provide legal and constitutional changes that will serve a part of the individual's and individual's accounts, as well as to play with history, historical savings and values. If we, the people's representative, do not object to the irradiated force of parliament, we will contradict our existence and face a position and position against our existence. It should be our job to provide and facilitate the freedoms and the ability to buy, and the power to buy, and the power to buy, and the wealth, in a Turkey, where people face poverty, poverty, and poverty, but are kept from buying with new raises every day. But instead of doing so, we become authoritarian every day, both with opposing approaches and rhetoric to confront our people and citizens, both hostileizing, counterproductive approaches, as well as in our region and insurgency in the international arena. For the first time in the last fifty-six years, Turkey has faced a situation, a position that has become so centralized, authoritarian, that has turned people against them and turned them against them. To see this is the duty of this Parliament, of us MPs, more than anyone, to produce solution projects for this, but it was the declaration of war that we discussed last week, which we're going to fight again, as it is clear from the AKP (AKP)'s proposal that wants to bring the debate to our agenda tomorrow. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, although history has suffered more than a thousand, tens of thousands of years of history from war. War is death, persecution, destruction, poverty, poverty, tears. The war is the future of a country and of a people and of a society. Parliament should be able to speak peace to its people, its peoples, its peoples, and the international world of humanity, instead of war regulations and decisions, it should be the voice of peace, the House of Peace. But what are we doing? Remember the 1950s, the 1960s, the authoritarian regimes from North Africa to the Middle East, the dictatorial regimes we criticize, who created the authoritarian Baasci regimes that we introduce to our people every day? The global imperial power of that day was the United States. Today's global superpower, the United States, and other super-emperal forces with it, have also set up a role for Turkey in the search of a new design from North Africa to the Middle East, a new form. Turkey should have developed its will to treat the Syrian people and its peoples as a parliament where the decision to fight against the Middle Eastern people was made, but we found ourselves on the brink of war, as a result of the Prime Minister's coercion, centrifugal approach. There are no winners in this war. In war, you either die or you kill or you destroy or you collapse in battle. Of course, where there are both death and death and destruction, there will be power, but what comes out is the power of the tyrant, the power of tyranny, the power of exploitation, the power of oppression and violence. But it's a handful of freedoms that you and we and all of humanity need. It is the duty of all those who call themselves human beings to grant this freedom. But we have a duty to sacrifice a community, a country, and the people of that country to our birth and our future, so that we can shape, shape, shape, and shape, with our presence and power, for ever and ever and ever and ever and ever and ever, to our future. It's not human, it's not conscientious, it's not moral. The future of 75 million is not in the war, from the woman in 75 million to her man, from the younger man to the older man. Tomorrow, you will be sad, we will be sad, we will be sad, we will feel the mourning of our young people, the death of Kurds and Turkish children, regardless of the color of our tears in the common language. It is the duty of this Assembly not to stand by and stand behind war, but to stand against it, to speak peace, to speak peace in spite of the opposition of war. In that respect, I'd like to remind the AKP and Prime Minister that the people of this country must be removed from the war when they know they're withdrawing from it. It stands in the middle where 90 years of denial politics put the people of the country. With the sentiment of confronting history and revealing historical facts, this Parliament must return to its original mission and to its work. This job is to build the constitution of a future where people can live together in peace in a free, democratic country. When we come up with a democratic, egalitarian, liberal constitution, we get a chance to live in peace, free, democratic country, as we push those who push the war against us with one hand. But it's not the state of democratic law -- if it's doing -- that it's doing -- that it's doing it -- to promote legal changes into solution projects in favor of the people. The state of democratic law is sensitive to human rights and freedoms. As we become authoritarian, we face the reality of a country where both law and human rights and freedoms are put on the shelf, where freedom of speech frees us from freedom of thought all sorts of liberal environments are eliminated. Today, the agenda is to free the prisons of 93 journalists, hundreds of students, thousands of politicians, while the Elections, the Political Party Act, must eliminate antidemocratic practices, while the 12 September Constitution, ceberut, authoritarian and fascist constitution must be lifted and we continue to address democratic, liberal constitution. This is not an opportunity for us to play our historical role in the task our people have given us. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I remind you once again that the Third Year of Legislature will go through a hoop and format that will serve freedom, peace and the brotherhood of the peoples. By reminding us of the human, conscientious and moral responsibilities of standing up against the war as the people of the region who have experienced all the destruction of war, I respectfully remind all of you that we must resolve the Alevis' problem of faith and worship, including the peaceful, democratic solution to the political programmes of political parties in parliament and the Kurdish problem, and to address the problem of the religious headscarf and worship, and to restore the country to democratic norms.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit01spe0051par0550	Thank you. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger, lawmakers.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0051par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 5th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly My original Law Proposal 2/20 is not in the Commission in 45 days, so the Civil Charter is 37. I respectfully recommend that the clause be taken directly into consideration. 22.06.2012 On behalf of the bidder, Ensar Öğüt, Ardahan MP.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0052par0011	Mr. President, dear friends, of course I have made a commitment to my law proposal to help our farmers who have suffered disasters. I salute you all. Dear friends, Act 2090 says, of course, that if all the farmers' assets are damaged, their home will be destroyed, their tractor burned down, their field will be dry, floods, everything -- 40 percent of them -- will be helped by the government. And in my proposal, I say, let's not do that, what product, non-animal production tools, or facilities, if 40 percent of any product has been damaged, law number 2090 will function and the state will help farmers. Now, this year, you know, there's been a huge drought in our region, my region, and all of Turkey. There was such a drought that we started importing hay and weed from the outside. Now, in a situation like this, we must absolutely help the farmers. Dear friends, now, we have our Posof turduce Gate. We can't bring grass or hay from Georgia at the door of the turduce. Why? Because there's no certificate of agricultural fitness. I don't know what the Minister of Agriculture does. The Minister of Agriculture brings in imported meat, imported animals to damage the nation, and does nothing to help dry areas. At least, for God's sake, give those customs doors a certificate of agricultural fitness so people can bring cheap hay, bring grass, feed their animals, or they're running out of people. In a situation like this, we can't process the Posof Turbular Gate right now, you know what we can't do? A mobile team from Erzurum Customs will be brought in, and that mobile team will stop at the Posof Gate, and the citizen will come from there and import grass and hay, and feed his animals, and winter and spring. Can such cruelty be done, my friends? I mean, what are we doing as a government? So you can't afford to give an agricultural fitness document to a customs door? So the animal's not worth anything right now. Kurak has dropped 800 lira hay from Diyarbakır to 800 lira. One ton of hay, one cow, one ton of hay, one cow, dear friends. Society's over, family business is over, Kars, Ardahan, Iğdır, Erzurum, Van, Ağrım that area is now exhausted, as it is. Now, on top of that, he's bringing his animal to major cities because of Victim's Day, even though it's a health certificate, sir, you can't move it from the Anatolian side to the European side... ▪ This one has a medical report, he has a passport, he has ear earrings. No, sir, the Department of Agriculture has made an arbitrary application, and it's against the law. I told them the other day, even though we had decided to stop the execution, they cut off 21 animals from the lake in the Greatshoot. The man lost $4,000 per animal, and they slaughtered his animals in front of him, crying and crying. I mean, could there be such a Minister of Agriculture, such a head, such a mind, such a sign, such a person? I don't understand that friends, I mean, keep the people alive so the state can live. Mr. Prime Minister always says the slogan, the AKP people say it, and we say the words of Sheikh Edebali, but you don't keep a man alive, you can't allow him to live. If you're letting him live, why don't you listen to these people's voices? Now, here's what I'm gonna say: if a cow has made a ton of hay, that's the death of a farmer, that's the death of a family operator, that's the death of society. I mean, what makes it possible, to destroy one third of Turkey's population, 30 percent of its population, to finish it? In that sense, I accept this proposal of the law and demand that the harm of the farmers be paid by the government, and I offer all of you with respect.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0053par0023	Thank you. Nurettin Demir is a member of parliament.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0054par0025	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge in favor of Ensar Öğüpul's proposal for the law. I salute you with respect, with love. Sir, in particular, I've recently conducted a survey of the Urban region that has found our animalism quite difficult. In particular, we've also seen in this recent legislation that the loans to support this rural area are being denied in about 60 percent of the province of Turkey. But especially because of the border incidents in Syria and the double price of drought bait, I would like to point out that Urbana is having a very difficult time in livestock. I'm thinking that this should be reassessed and supported by the transfer of these loans. In particular, natural disasters that increase with global warming are, in our country, geographically, what we often experience. In January, you know, in particular, after the flood in Mughla, the manufacturer had a very difficult time in the village over 500 times, and we see that the support of farmers, farmers, producers, and producers from the disaster has yet to be resolved. The number of refugees from Syria, however, has not helped their own people in any way. In particular, I would like to point out here that the government has not seen the problems that our farmers and livestock producers have experienced in the last year. Today, in the case of Fethiye, in the morning, the cucumber weighed 10 cents a pound, so even cucumbers are sadly ashamed to be a jerk. Therefore, it is remarkable that the country does not give support and support to our villagers, farmers, and producers who live in so much economic distress. Specifically, it is remarkable that in Urbana, in 2011, grain support prices were not paid and they still failed to pay their debts. Olivery, unfortunately, is in very bad shape, Milas, Mughla -- five or six years ago, it was seven liras -- that's just below or above -- our farmer is in a very difficult situation. These problems need to be fixed. Live animal prices, which were $12.5 last year, unfortunately, are down to 7-8 liras due to the double increase in hay and the increase in vows, and livestock is in very bad shape. Milk producers, in the same way, are in a very difficult situation. I particularly recommend a review of the fact that our farmer and villager, our producer, are in trouble, and that the government, especially with our manufacturer, should produce new policies that support them. Otherwise, it is clear that immigration from village to city will increase the problem of employment, poverty will increase, and the fulfillment of rural development goals will negatively affect our country's economy. I'm paying my respects when I want this law to be backed up again. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0055par0036	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. We're moving on to the election part of the agenda. İzmir MP Birgül Ayman Güler has been nominated for one member of the Republican People's Party Group, which has been vacant in the Interior Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Ankara MP Izzet Cetin has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group, which was divorced in the Plan and Budget Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. İzmir MP Alaatin Yüksel has been nominated for 1 membership in the Republican People's Party Group, which has been discharged by the Public Economic Initiative Commission. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Under the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will continue the talks of Justice and Development Party Deputy Chairs Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı, Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli, Kahramanmarash MP Mahir Ünal and Adıyaman MP Ahmet Aydın. We will continue with the Tunceli MP Kamer Yün. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume negotiations with the European Union's Compliance Commission and the Justice Commission reports, which are ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will resume our talks with the 3rd ranking draft of the Common Business Relations Act and the European Union's Compliance Commission on Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission reports. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin the first meeting of İstanbul MP Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the chairman of Justice and Development Party, and Osmaniye MP State Bahçeli, and 309 MPs on the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. The commission and the government are in place. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 328 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Altan Tan is Diyarbakır MP. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0056par0073	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, we're dealing with the same thing that's always happened. As soon as parliament opened, the Justice and Development Party proposed a constitutional amendment to parliament for the move of local elections to move up nearly five months. First of all, let's say that we are ready for the elections to be held on this Sunday, not next year, October 27, 2013. Once again, we will bring to you again what we want to be held in May, not in October, but in a motion for a change that our friends will make, and we will bring to you what we want to do in May, and it will be discussed in a moment. Dear friends, our first objection is that all the work done in Parliament is done together, and the main duty of this Parliament is to sit down and discuss the issues of Turkey with its opposition, but the ruling Justice and Development Party, assuming that other opposition parties are gone, and when it feels like it, it brings the law to a halt. As these elections were being brought forward, while the relevant constitutional amendment was being prepared, no opinion was asked, no idea was received, and again came to parliament in the form of the cooperation of an opposition party with the Justice and Development Party. This is a violation of democratic issues, the peace of Turkey, and the function of this Assembly. We're going to underline that first. Secondly, sir, when we leave March, an election towards the end of March, an election after winter, the conditions are not available, so we're taking it to fall. There seems to be a perfectly innocent justification, which we certainly don't believe. As I just said, if you're using winter conditions as an excuse, October 27th of autumn is not a very comfortable time, it's a time when the rain begins to rain. Let's do this in May. And we believe that's not the main reason, because Mr. Prime Minister, who's fallen into the desire to be President, is planning all of Turkey's political problems, elections, the Tezkere (Tezkere) about Syria, even the presidential system, and whatever else you can think of, he's planning his own political goal, he's making the timing. You could say, "What's wrong with that?" I mean, if that's what he wants. My dear friends, this is not a platform or platform of anyone's own personal nature, of their own desires and desires. The interests of 75 million, the interests, the future, the timing, the planning, the laws, the regulations have to be arranged accordingly. There will be elections in a row; there will be local elections; there will be presidential elections; then there will be parliamentary elections; perhaps there will be a new constitutional referendum. This is about all of this. Don't let any of this hurt me, don't let my political economy get in danger, let me do the timing of this, so I can get up these stairs so I can get to my goal safely. We're dealing with timing and planning. (x) 328 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. Another important concern is anxiety about March. In March, you know -- March 21st -- and in this period, a whole Kurdish geography is standing, enthusiastic, and there is concern that an election to be made on 26 or 27 March will benefit BDP. From here, we challenge it with a very clear expression; for us, every day from now on, it's the same thing as the neurosis. (Applause from BDP rows) So whatever day you take the election, whenever you do it, put a tank on each of the crates, which the police came to the polls in the last parliamentary elections -- so leave that legal distance -- still the outcome hasn't changed, and the results won't change in the local elections. Whatever it is you're afraid of today, whatever it is that you're worried about, it's not a matter of time, so let's say it here. Again, for an innocent reason, such as the health of elections, the absence of election propaganda, it's as if the ruling party, how can these elections be democratic, how can it be beautiful, how can we get the idea for a moment, but when we look at the truth, dear friends, it's not exactly like that. For the past 25 years, even twenty-nine years, the end of 1983 has not been corrected since the beginning of 1984. I'm here to argue, let's ask the MPs one by one -- and I'd like to thank you very little -- most of them don't know how to calculate city council members and general council members in this Local Elections Act. Ten percent of the vote is deleted from each party. Look, there's no dam, not a dam. Ten per cent of the votes you get, it's supposed to be destroyed, and then a new calculation is done, so if a party that gets 20 per cent of the vote has received 11 per cent of the vote, then normally the 20 per cent vote area has to produce 2 per cent of the city's general assembly or city council members, but according to the law that is now in effect, when it comes out of 11 per cent, it's 1 per cent to 10 per cent when it comes out of 21 per cent, it's 10 times 10 per cent. That's the math. I don't know if anyone knew. Again and again, I sing the praises of my few friends who know. So, what do we choose without correcting these distortions, without a proper election law, without proper political parties bringing in the law? Again, like the previous elections, we will continue the injustice of the representation with a snatching of the land, like take the money. There's no conclusion to the political parties' help from the treasure. Look, friends -- we're praying in Congress with a lot of these friends -- the money you're taking right now is illegal. You're getting treasure help from the treasure. Let's say you have 300 MPs, you have 327 MPs, we have 35 MPs, you have to have as much as one of them. You get 80 trillion, but we don't get a dime. Without correcting these distortions, without proper regulation about them, then this, sir, we want the elections to be done properly. Dear friends, here's another issue: Look, I have a motion to ask Mr. Mehmet Simsek, our Finance Minister, through the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our ministers are here, and I ask them to listen carefully, I beg you, I beg you. That's the question I'm asking. This is about municipalities and municipalities, such as ASİ, SİSİ, DİSKI, etc., where companies such as EGO receive loans from abroad through treasury bail. The question I'm asking is simple. What is the amount of bailed-out foreign loans used by Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and its participants as of 31/12/2011? In the same way, how much is the amount of bailed out foreign loan used by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality? It's a simple question. Answer: Thanks to Mr. Finance Minister, he answered at 13/04/2012, pen, pen, matter, and wrote them down to his cent. 536 trillions of US dollars bought by the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality itself, 472,292.89 American dollars, $213 trillion -- which is the old money that ASKI is taking -- 223,0,73,33 US dollars, and again, 697 trillions,444 million,740,29 US dollars used by EGO. In total, it has 1 quadrillion, 447 trillion, and the sum of these is Turkish lira. So 1.5 quadrillion, 1.5 quadrillion...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0057par0086	You were just saying American dollars.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0056par0087	Listen carefully. Look, I'm not saying anything political, I'm giving you numbers. One and a half quadrillion, round account. What does that mean? 1,500 trillion. So, how much did Diyarbakır Metropolitan City get? Not half a trillion against 1,500 trillion, half a trillion, $332, 716.78 U.S. dollars. Here you go. He used 4,000 times the credit, 4,000 times the credit. Here we are, making local elections, going to local elections. Ankara uses 4,000, you give one to Diyarbakır. There's no treasure help. You're deleting 10 percent. That's the kind of election law you're using. You're choosing to let friends see you shopping. And then you say: this is what happened in the Dictatories, 99% on the floor, 98% on the floor. I'm not saying that, I'm leaving the parentheses blank, I'm leaving it to you. The numbers, the documents, the numbers that Mr. Finance Minister gave us. When we put all this together... well, what do we say, what do we want? Here's what we say: 1) Dear friends, let's make the elections as soon as you want, no objections. 2) Let's make a proper political party and election law. 3) Come, let's organize this treasure aid. 4) Let's not give one of these local governments an injustice that will give one of them 1,500 trillion and one of them a quarter trillion. Let this House organize all of this. Again, and again, whenever you feel like it... it's a one-night stand, a one-night stand. Now, again, this is an example of what you want: a law proposal for the establishment of new major cities has come to the House. We've been waiting for years, the idea is right, the course is positive, so there's no objection -- strengthening regional governments -- but as usual, it's ash. Last night, I wasn't lazy -- given to the House yesterday, I got -- it's a law proposal this big, I read it, I studied it. It's my specialty. Not even powers and responsibilities have been properly described, not properly defined what resources to receive from the budget. So the burdens were placed on him from all the village roads, which is the right arrangement, look, I'll tell you again, the direction is right, but it's ash. The districts are divided, new municipalities are established, some have been removed. Well, dear friends, they say something in public, whether it's heroin or marijuana or guns. So in the end, you're making a law proposal for the development of this country, and there's no point in doing it behind doors this secret for five, six, seven months? Ask them, consult them, consult them, discuss them, and do what is best together. If we say no to the right thing that you bring us, say: "Look, brother, we do such beautiful things, and these men are against everything." Again, in these arrangements, such as Mr. Omar Dinçer, in 2003, there was a law that Mr. Ahmet Necdet Sezer had vetoed, even though President Ahmet Necdet Sezer had passed through parliament at that time; prepared, passed through Parliament. Today, this arrangement is behind that 2003. I mean, I've got that, too. For example, according to the 2003 arrangement, an important portion of health care, youth sports services, local services are still being transferred to those local governments or local governments, but not today. So you're making a new arrangement, and it's behind 2003. What's left in the governor's jurisdiction? What's left in the jurisdiction of the police commissioners? There's a elected mayor and he's voted all over the county lines, and there's only one council -- and I'll say it again, at first, that's true -- so, what's the governor's authority and formation? They're all mixed up. Dear friends, if we use this place as a notary, then we will be in the state of Syria, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iran. So those who don't... accept... are accepted... or not accepted. We're going to change the law again in six months, and we're going to argue again, again and again, if we take the arrangements that will shape the entire administration of the country, even if we take them out of the fire, without landing in detail, without landing in capillaries, without landing in capillaries. In order for that not to happen, we say: "Come, let's discuss and discuss all these matters properly about the Election Law, which I just highlighted in the first part of my speech, about the provision of the treasure, about the prohibitions and forms of propaganda, about the deletion of 10 per cent votes, about authority and responsibilities. When you spend it on a commission the same night, what are we going to discuss, and where are we going? If you bring something behind 2003, behind your own work, where will you get it? We -- again, dear friends -- if we can't talk this way properly, this ball of chaos and contradictions will continue. In local governments, 75 per cent of Turkey's population is now within this new scope, so the total population of 29 major cities -- including the newly declared, of course -- is 56 million and so on. You're going to put 56 million of a country, 75 million people, in a new form, you're going to offer a new perspective to 75 percent of the population, but you're going to take it from the front to the bottom, as you know, without thinking about the end. Where are you going with this? Head's gonna hit the wall, you're gonna come back. As a result, we say: "Come, let's do a proper study of the election and the election laws and these recent municipalities. We, the Party of Peace and Democracy, are prepared to offer any contribution. Let this model we've set up be a model for the Middle East, a prerequisite for the new Middle East federation, the state union, and let's get them through this Parliament with our faces flowing. I give you all my love, my respect. I repeat: we're ready to run this Sunday, if you like. Greetings, love, respect.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0058par0103	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Brült Tezcan, Aydın MP, who has all been asked to take a stand on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're discussing the Constitutional Amendment, and we're discussing the Law Proposal 328. You know, the normal time of local elections was March 2014. The local elections that should be held in March 2014 are required to be adopted by this law proposal in 2013, with a proposal for amendments to the Constitution. First of all, I'll tell you this in advance: we didn't oppose this proposal as the Republican People's Party for the Commission, we didn't write about this change, we don't oppose this proposal, we don't oppose this change! If you want to do it sooner than in October 2013, let's do it earlier. Not just local elections, but if you want to take other elections with you, which choice...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0060par0108	And the congressman...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0109	Yes, let's do whatever you want to do, including the parliamentary elections, because Turkey's AKP ruling will only come out of the burden of the nation over the past ten years, with an election, so we're always in every form of election as the main opposition party. Only one thing I need to share with the General Assembly is that there's something that we don't agree with in the justification section of the law proposal. Dear friends, it's not true that the election has been written that the reason for this proposal is that the election is premature to recognize free political parties, to promote free propaganda, to eliminate the challenges stemming from the natural conditions of winter in front of propaganda. The whole world knows that's not true. Dear MPs, look, there's only one reason why the AKP's government wants to move the elections up, there's only one reason, the economy that's gone bad; you've seen it. Look, we've got a list of people at a raise just a week ago, 30 percent in the kitchen, 9 percent in statistics, but the average inflation in natural gas is 30 percent in the public's food, in electricity, in natural gas. In this is -- the next winter -- the recent increase in mazota, the increase in fuel, 20 percent in electricity, 20 percent in natural gas, 49 percent in natural gas, 50 percent in natural gas. Winter's at the door, it's up against the chimney, right at the time when the citizen needs the most natural gas to warm himself, 50 percent is in the most basic consumer goods. Now, I have come from Aydin, and have visited our villages one by one in Aydın. The farmer's condition is obvious, the fig maker says: I'm costing £3.5, and I can't sell it now for $2.5; the cotton manufacturer has calculated the cost, $1.92p, and the price is $1.75. Let's get out of Aydın, let's go to the Black Sea: The current price of nuts is down to half the price of nuts in 2004. Dear friends, look, he's got corn that's gone from cotton, it's not corn, it's corn that's gone from corn, it's not wheat that's been planted, it's what it's become. The cattlemen had a truckload of bait, and the citizen says: "This bait was $43 last year, bag, 50 lira this year. The cost of milk is 120 cents, the price of milk is 80 cents, and how am I going to make money? It's down to $500, one-third. 300 percent, the real interest is 300 percent, that's what it's called. Dear friends, today, interestingly enough, we have become a country that imports a thousand sheep a day, 3,000 sheep. Every day, we import 1,000 sheep and 3,000 sheep in Turkey. What's this farmer gonna do? What's he gonna do? What will the citizen do? The malls went into the alley, the grocery store was a mess, the shop was a mess. The workers are walking the streets. You've implemented all practices aimed at disunion, organizing workers and eliminating an organized working class force in your ten-year reign. The workers are on the street. We're going through a process like this, today, when we're going into winter. Dear friends, in Turkey, in 2012, what you did in your ten-year reign: 7.5 million hungry people, 7.5 million hungry. 46 million of our people are under the poverty line, 46 million of the 75 million people are poor. There is a AKP ruling that has made Turkey a poor country. Now, of course, there's a winter ahead of us, winter of 2012, winter of 2013, March of 2014, when this painting -- you know very well -- it's going to be worse, it's not going to be any better; economic indicators reveal that. Here, because you're afraid it's going to get worse, you want to see the chest before you see the winter because you've run out of breath to take out the winter. The main reason for this early election is because of the AKP's power. But we have no doubt that whatever you bring -- whatever you bring -- I've already said -- yes, we have an early election, because no one will be able to escape from you except when the Ark arrives. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, there's talk of free propaganda for the cause, so there's no way to do free propaganda in winter, so when we vote in October, the weather will allow free propaganda! Now, if any other power could tell us that, maybe we could sit down and think about it. In the ten-year period of AKP power, what is left in the name of freedom? I'm asking all the people here: you made a terrorist out of a student who wanted a free education on the street, you put him away for two years. Aydın, you've threatened, starved, condemned a journalist who objects to power and doesn't like it -- you've instructed the newspaper bosses -- and you've condemned him to poverty. You put intellectuals, Democrats, people who say things you don't like, scientists in prisons. For the first time, you've brought the shame of a Turkish National Assembly, who's been under arrest for a year and a half, in the absence of representation, to our Parliamentary history. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, you created Silivri law, Silivri law. What Silivri law is -- law school students who will study ahead -- will look back on what it is to judge without the right to defend, how judges who rule without a right to rule -- how you complain about their judgment from those ruling courts, you've created a Silivri law, Silivri courts, Thai courts, Turkey. Dear friends, the AKP knows something very well during this period, you have a real talent for deceiving society with Allah, but you have added something new by implementing Silivri law, Silivri courts. This added to your ability to deceive with God today, your ability to persecute with law. AKP Power is the name of the government that cheats with God, who persecutes with law. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, now, in such an environment, you say: "We are going to make free and democratic elections, we are going to make them early. We can't believe it because it's obvious with the political climate you've created when you don't intend to." Dear friends, there's no need to go further, let's go back to the Prime Minister's politics... and we don't need any other evidence to see that. Look, Mr. Prime Minister, did the group speak today, and returned to our deputy president, and asked Mr. Muharrem Encel, can you tell the U.S. to go to hell? I mean, for the Prime Minister, it's a hard thing to stand up to the United States, of course. I understand that. It's no surprise for him to ask that, because for the Prime Minister, don't sweep our prime minister into the hole, take advantage. For her, she can't possibly understand him. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, of course, in this country, from time to time, foreign admiration has settled on this land. For example, during World War I, there was a German admiration, and in those first World Wars, Enver Pasha's admiration led to a World War I adventure. From that adventure, Turkey rescued Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Great Leader, whose name you couldn't stand to be found in school books. Now a new adventure has begun in Turkey; today's American admiration has replaced the German admiration of that day. Since American admiration continues, Mr. Davutoglu, who is today's Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs, as did that day's Enver Pasha, it is not your fault to defy America because it governs foreign policy, you cannot understand such a thing. You know how to sail across vast seas in an American boat, but that boat will sink you, too, but hopefully, it won't sink the country, the nation. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, let the Prime Minister have no hesitation in this matter, as we have been able to come to this country 90 years ago and say to those who want to tear this land apart, to hell with you! As we come from the Kemal culture that says so, so we have the same Kemal culture today. We call the U.S.A. to hell! I don't just tell the United States -- pay attention to the United States, not just the United States -- to all his junior collaborators, to share the world with him, to all the imperialist collaborators, to hell with you!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0061par0131	Bravo!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0132	Dear friends, look, it's a Syrian thing going on. Now, in Hatay's village of Redchat, Hebrew talks began to spread in mosque minarets; Hebrew, the language spoken by the Israelites. The area has apparently been filled with Mossad agents, and in the mosques on Hatay's Syrian border, Mossad agents are now having a Hebrew plan, program, meeting. The Prime Minister again spoke for the Republican People's Party, again, about a slander he had previously committed at the AKP Assembly and found to be slandered. What did he say? During the People's Party of the Republic during the 1940s, mosques were built. [[▪ Right voices, noise from the AK PARTY]] I'm now calling from here: not a single mosque was built during the Republican People's Party period, but during the AKP period, mosques became the barracks and headquarters of Mossad agents. You've made mosques the barracks of Mossad agents. Dear friends, I think from now on that poem that Mr. Prime Minister likes our Camis dome, minarets, here's our spear... so let me read it, I don't know, the Prime Minister knows. (Minarees bayonets, domes helmets The mosques are calling it our barracks, the believers are calling it the military, Mr. Prime Minister, and I think from now on, Mossad agents will read this poem on the Syrian border; Mossad agents will read the Prime Minister's poem. Dear friends say you've taken care of innocent Syrians in his speech again today, Prime Minister. So you heard Mr. Prime Minister in the group talk, and he said: "The People's Party of the Republic doesn't care about innocent people, you don't know that, you don't understand. Should we not look after innocent children who have come from the border? Of course you will. In Turkey, not only the Republican People's Party, but everyone, every Turkish citizen, will take care of every victim, every person who asks for it, every victim. But when you say "I do," you won't put the country on the back of another adventure, and you won't fool the nation. Look, where are the innocent citizens? Who are the innocent citizens? I'm showing you two pictures.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0062par0140	Where did you lose your conscience?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0141	I'm showing you two pictures. Look, in this photo, here's a citizen, to the right, to the left, the Turkish soldier, posing with a smile. Look, the plate is 21 plates, this is Turkey, the border. In another photograph, the same citizen with the hunting knife, the kalashnikov rifle, the army suit, the guerrilla suit, the Free Syrian Army dress, name it whatever you like, whatever you like.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0063par0142	Get out of here!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0143	Now, are these the innocent people? Is that why you're going to put Turkey into an adventure? Dear friends, you know as well as I do that your thesis is not for the benefit of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0064par0145	Why don't you speak for yourself?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0146	So, the prime minister goes out in the group talk, and we come in, we know his background when the time comes, and when the time comes, what's in his background? But the ministers and the lawmakers say you can't even stand behind it. No way, we took it out for Syria. Dear friends, both Hatay and Kilis have become the area where you didn't bring them into the camp of Apedun today, where you hid them, where there was trouble. No one objects to Turkey's standing as an honorable state, and no one objects to your response to the attackers of Turkey following your rules of engagement. When this House is attacked on this land, when it's attacked directly, it doesn't envy the authority to operate across the border; did it or didn't we? Every day you entered Turkey from northern Iraq, under the umbrella of Barzani, and every day you were able to go to this land and do the necessary thing to address Kandil, who martyred our average 10 soldiers, did you enter? This is not a dissertation of war! What thesis? Is this a dissertation you need for the rules of engagement? No, you're already bombing. When the attack comes on us, we're right, we're using our rights to counter international law. Dear friends, I've just told you today that the reason you're moving these local elections forward is because you're in a hurry to escape the distress you're going to experience in the next process, but this excitement won't save you because it's the end of the road. The Prime Minister says today that the way the Republican People's Party evaluates the thesis will become better understood as time goes by, and when the time is revealed, you will see how skilled the main opposition party is. I'm calling the Prime Minister, and why are you waiting for your time? There was a time when our friend came out, and this was a secret, and it's said. What are you waiting for? You already told me. The 99th article of the Constitution is open, and the 71st Article of the Civil Code is open, and you have 326 MPs, and we are prepared to vote here with 133 MPs, explain the minutes of the meeting. The Constitution is available, the Civil Code is available, don't wait, you don't have to wait ten years. Let's get an advisory board decision, let's let the public know who, what he said, what he hid from the nation, and let the public know. Dear friends, I will finally say that Mr. Prime Minister has recited the Istliklal Anthem today and has said that we do not know the Intrial Anthem, that we do not know what it means. I want to read something other than what Mr. Prime Minister reads, there's an important chapter in that Istrillal March, there's an important verse, he says: The wall of steel, even though it's wrapped around the wall. I've got a heart like a heart full of faith. Get up! How can he drown such faith, The one-toothed monster you call civilization?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0065par0155	You read it wrong!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0059par0156	Here's the one you've been tailing... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] .....we will not be the ruler of the one female monster you call civilization. Find out what the anthem is, what it means, and look at it once again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0066par0161	Thank you, Mr. Tezcan.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0067par0162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0066par0163	Here you are, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0067par0164	The speaker has insulted 18 minutes, 19 minutes of the 20 minutes of the time that he has spoken in a way that has nothing to do with our Group President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0066par0165	Mr. Elitaş, I'll give you three minutes without further ado. Article 69 of the Civil Code because of bullying... Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0067par0170	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. We're making an important constitutional amendment. Together with the National Movement Party, we're making a change in the fact that local elections, local management elections, were scheduled for the last Sunday of October on 27 October 2013, and in the following period, which we tried to express as negative climate conditions in the previous elections, in order that it would come to winter months, but unfortunately, the main opposition party and the other opposition party, as if we were taking the election as if we were taking the opportunities they had, and the main opposition party came up in a different way, and you're bringing them to a different point on the day when we might win. But, the speaker here just now felt that our Prime Minister's speech in the group was his duty, as if there were no presidents, as if there were no party speakers, that he had been tasked with criticizing our president, our Prime Minister, or that he was in charge. Look, dear friends, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister has made it very clear in his group speech today. I'm listening to the speaker, the Republican People's Party speaker, and on the other hand, I'm watching the text on Syria in Socialist International, and I'm having a little bit of a doubt as to which party the MP is from here, who's talking to the members of the Socialist International.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0068par0173	Oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh, boy, oh,
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0069par0174	Don't hesitate, there's nothing to hesitate about.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0068par0175	Looks like you're in another parliament.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0069par0176	We're saying the same thing, the same thing.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0177	Obviously, Republican People's Party officials, who sign that you signed off on the Socialist International two days later, that the Syrian regime has lost its legitimacy, that its persecution with civilians is unacceptable, have reached a point today that defends the persecution of the Syrian regime. On the one hand, when you say, "Why don't you go over there and pour the bombs?" you don't feel ashamed to sign under the expression, like the Kurdish problem of Israel and Palestine in the Socialist International.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0071par0178	You're the one who'll be ashamed!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0179	You're in extreme conflict.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0071par0180	Use your words carefully!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0072par0181	He just kicked your ass!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0182	Now, on the one hand, while the Turkish Armed Forces are disbanding terrorists in Kandil, while trying to drown the terrorists in their den in Kandil, the representative of the Kandil will rise up and jump on one side, with three children, three children, and the Syrian forces who have killed two mothers on top of Telabiyat, fighting, fighting, interfering with Turkish Armed Forces for the cause?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0073par0183	Look what happened in Turkey, in Turkey.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0184	The BDP stands up, the representatives of the Kandil. But the Republican People's Party stands up against those who slaughter our people in Syria.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0073par0185	Tell the people in Turkey, the ones in Turkey! Stop fighting in Syria, tell them who died in Turkey!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0186	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have no idea which assembly we're under.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0073par0188	Sing Turkey, Turkey!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0189	The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has also decided on this issue.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0074par0190	You are speaking with Kandil, and also with Assad.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0075par0191	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0070par0192	The Republican People's Party, I suppose...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0076par0194	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0075par0195	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0076par0196	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has made a commitment to bullying, but in his speech, the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0075par0197	He picked on us even though we warned him. Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi. I promise you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0076par0200	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0075par0202	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0076par0203	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have now been informed that the government...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0075par0205	This is your group president, Mr. Proposer.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0076par0206	Guys, if you'll excuse me. The government understands that they are wrong about Syrian policy, and they understand that they are wrong. Mr. Diplomat and Mr. Deputy Director of the Group who came up here, instead of describing the thesis, they're trying to turn around and say, "You did this in Socialist International." Our president, our concerned friends, made their statement about the Socialist International. We, the Republican People's Party, have put our opposition on the part of that text that concerns Turkey. Loud and clear. Now leave him alone and go back to the thesis. 80 percent of the people are against it, so you go out there and say, "We're not actually going to fight, it's to scare you." But you two be sincere now. So what you're saying in that thesis is that Turkey is on the verge of an armed attack. You can't say why: the Syrian armed forces have attacked the Republic of Turkey and killed our citizens. Syria has attacked Turkey with a gun. Why can't you say you dare to say that? Because you're taking a step, but you're afraid that America will tell you to stop. You can't go there. You want to be a bully like that, but you can't give him credit. Dear friends, your Syrian policy has failed, Syrian policy has clearly returned from the citizen. That's why this is not a declaration of war. You started to say that, but the Prime Minister came out today. He said, "What does that mean?" You can also see if it's a bluff. There's another sentence he said today. So he says: I will fight, I will fight if I have to. But you're going to follow in the footsteps of a Prime Minister, a Prime Minister who has conflicted within himself, a Minister of Foreign Affairs and his Minister of Foreign Affairs... unfortunately, you're going to follow in the footsteps of a Foreign Minister who's trying to lead Turkey with some of the emotions that children dream about. A congressman of yours noticed that. With his speech today, he actually played in his place. He said, "I want to be Minister of Foreign Affairs." But let's see if the Prime Minister gets his message. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0077par0212	Thank you. [[Continue]] Faruk Bal, MP for the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Honey.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0078par0220	Mr. President, there's bullying of the group. If you don't promise...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0077par0221	Mr. Tezcan, please... on behalf of the group. I promised Mr. Bal. Mr. Honey, let's talk...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0078par0223	Mr. President, he used his embarrassing statement.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0077par0224	Mr. Tezcan, your Deputy Director of the Group has spoken because of the bullying.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0078par0225	He used the expression "Shameless" about me.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0077par0226	Please... Mr. Honey, you're welcome.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0079par0228	Mr. President, you have my opinion on this proposal on behalf of the National Movement Party of Turkey, to add another interim clause, to change the Constitution of 1982, which has been changed 18 times. On behalf of my party and myself, I salute you all. My dear friends, the offer to add a temporary substance will be held on the last day of March 2014 on the last Sunday of October 2013. According to this, the selection of municipalities is set five months and four days early. What does five months and four days mean? Five months and four days represent the end of autumn and winter as well as the climate level where it belongs. Therefore, as a candidate for mayor, as a candidate for city council, over 80,000 candidates as members of the mayor's council will try to reach the voters through five months and four days of snow, winter, mud, rain, of course. As the National Movement Party to prevent this challenge, we have pioneered a change in the Constitution by adding a temporary clause to the Constitution by adding a more suitable season of October's local elections on the last Sunday. My dear friends, so we strive to fulfill and fulfill the democratic demand and rights of voters to be able to access the candidate's party, personality, plan and project. In this scope, we allow local governments, where democracy directly leads to life in small units, to become more transparent, more accountable, more serviceable. My dear friends, in this scope, not only is a temporary clause added to the Constitution, but in other relevant articles of the Constitution, in election laws, in the more democratic steps taken in municipal election laws, and in the democratic way that local governments can serve the public, we strive to implement it. Here, I'd like to share with you three important issues within this scope. One is that I would like to give examples of the ruling party's policies, especially the nationalist Action Party's policies of disproportionate, ineffective, ineffective services, and weardown. The municipality was founded in Adana, and the Adanans elected the mayor of Adana, Aytaç Durak. After he was elected, he had more than what happened to the cooked chicken. Therefore, Adana's voter and the Justice and Development Party's ruling law enforcement forces, intelligence units and politicisation of the judiciary have done anti-instruction studies to prevent the mayor from serving the Adanans. In contrary to the fourth joke of Article 127 of the Constitution, the Home Secretary has begun inspections on seventy-three separate issues, each consisting of three persons, head of the chief inspector, and as a result, no illegal actions and procedures of the mayor of Adana have been coincidental in the services of the mayor of Adana, but the mayor of Adana is still exposed. My dear friends, another example of this and another sad example of this has happened to the mayor of Iconian Ereğli. One night, the morning prayer was taken from the mayor's house, the city buildings, the mayor's relatives' buildings, the homes of his employees, and all the household items and municipal documents were taken away, and four months later, they were brought back to a raid. The 17-year-old daughter of our President's family has been subjected to inhuman treatment and taken into custody for four days, under the guile of immoral and despicable remarks. After that, one of the city employees, this abusive, immoral, low-life, couldn't stand to be treated like this -- hear it from me -- committed suicide in prison. It has to be a plague, and if it doesn't happen in this world, it'll be on your neck in the afterlife. Another example is that we have a municipality -- I'm not naming it now, I've expressed it to the concerned minister at the Constitutional Commission -- listening is being made. In these wiretaps, the name of someone in the state's important office is equal to the name of someone who's been called from the office, before they've been treated, before they've been taken into custody, before they've been processed, because they have the same last name. If he said he was related, it wouldn't be an operation. The mayor says, "No, we don't have that kind of relationship, we don't have that kind of relationship." In two days, the mayor's in for four days. My dear friends, it is not incompatible with the state of law that Isparta, Karabuk Municipality, Korkeli Municipality, Etimesgut Municipality, Lake Chief Municipality, Women's Hall, the latest Edremit municipality, the republic's prosecutor, should be subjected to social lynching under the guise of it. My dear friends, power is, of course, a power. The mastery rules it with justice. A skill does not mean cruelty. There is no injustice but there is a loss. If he had been persecuted, the pharaohs would have fallen. Now, there's an investigation into the mayor of Edremit as corruption, theft, fraud, prosecutors, press releases: we let him in around 42. The man he called around 42 is a respected citizen of the Republic of Turkey. How about around here? 43, a person's personal freedom has to be compensated, 39, there's still meaning and there's serious evidence about them, he says, and he shares it with the press, and then he says, "Everyone's innocent until the final verdict is made." He says, "Everyone is innocent until they're declared innocent." That, my friends, is injustice with justice. And this is the worst part. There's no injustice and there's no injustice in this world or on the other side. The second thing I want to talk about is my dear friends, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they've published a generalization, they've moved the ground. Small municipalities, local municipalities, according to this, will now get permission from the governor for all services, jobs, tenders, construction statements, executions, or executions. My dear friends, this is not a job seen anywhere in the world. All democratic countries, all democratised countries, first implement democracy in local governments. What's a local government? The local government, choosing a president and board of directors to choose the services that the local people, their fellow citizens need, is to select a city council, that's the local government. You take the authority of this, the authority of the electorate, and you give it to the governor that you appointed and acted as the president of the AKP. No plans and projects of MHP municipalities in particular pass by, documents are piled up; the example of the province of Iconia has a hundred and sixty-seven districts, and a governor will do all the municipal services of one hundred and sixty-seven cities. Is it possible to expect the governor, who's already busy, to decide how to run a hundred and sixty-seven municipalities? That means I'm going to lock the gates of the cities. As a matter of fact, the bad news comes quickly -- we're getting to the third issue -- because Thursday's arrival was obvious from Wednesday. The third news is that a trial under the name of the establishment of the city's municipality and corruption will be introduced into the Turkish state structure and its local governments. My dear friends, his name may be good, let the capitals be established, we have no objection. Let the city be built, let the great service be done to our cities, we have no objection to that. But there's an app coming up with no name. What's a non-compliance app? This city will not be a city, this city will be a state, the state. The mayor's constituents will be all voters within the province to be elected to this great city. The mayor's authority to be elected to this great city will be within the province's borders. Then this isn't a city. Then this isn't the mayor. What is this? This is the president of the state. My dear friends, this is the head of state. This is a global project. This global project is another hidden form of the operation on the creation of city states on Turkey. My dear friends, while I've been here before -- look at how many pelts the Ottomans have taken off from the Ottoman lamb, who declared the Ottomans to be a sick man and wanted to share their inheritance. Under Ottoman territory, they created 162 states, which were used as their land in their geography and protected by them. I've got the list on the Internet and I've got the list. Now, an operation is being carried out on Turkey. The name of this operation is to create city states in Turkey. They want to consolidate it with ethnic conflicts, conflict of faith, and ignite the fuse. So, this is the result of the big city, that they want to create state states in the province's urban status that can fuel ethnically based dissolution, and therefore the National Movement Party will shield your chest, and will never, ever, allow you to legalize it. On the other hand, along with the city's municipal law, the government of 1,032 cities within the city's cities will be eliminated. 1,032 municipalities will no longer receive municipal services from their elected mayors. In other cities outside these cities, 559 municipalities will be closed in cities that do not have a major city status. My dear friends, a total of 1,591 municipalities will be closed. In the 1.591 districts, the elected mayor will no longer be able to carry out the duties of the public-elected city councilman, and in addition, the province's general legislatures will be removed, and private administrations will be removed. Then there's a naked truth. And that naked truth, as Mr. Altan Tanί, who just spoke for the BDP, says, "What's the need for a governor, brother?" He says, "That's right, that's where it's going." And from here, a city government is born. The infrastructure of this city's state is entirely under central authority, a sense of service for those who will act under the authority of the officers appointed by the centre. When we evaluate all of this, my dear friends, it is not about democracy, it is about the changes in the law that Turkey needs in the local governments in front of Turkey; it is entirely based on the outside-focused or possibly the election of the Justice and Development Party, or how I will win the election, or how I will win the election. My dear friends, everywhere, all over the world, the chosen are authorized, not appointed. The Justice and Development Party has made it a political jargon, not a appointee, but a chosen one. Now I ask you: Honam is at the bottom of the coast of the province of Çeltik, and the distance of Konya is about 200km. The district of Halkapınar is at the bottom of Mersin, a distance of about 200 km (200 km) and more. Kulu is located at the bottom of Ankara. The district of Sejdişehir is located at the bottom of Antalya. You're removing 167 municipalities here. With what power, with what capacity, will the Metropolitan Municipality of Iconium, where 167 municipalities serve? Can such irrationality be considered, such a possibility? Then why is this being done? This is not done for Konya; this is not done for Istanbul; this is not done for Kayseri; this is done to serve ethnic separatism, to create a city state in Southeast Turkey. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] My dear friends, I appeal to your fear, to your mind, to your conscience, to your patriotism. We can't be in this betrayal. Of course we won't be, but without the Justice and Development Party, we're sure you have a sense of patriotism. How, then, can you submit to such an open, naked truth? You may have a party discipline, but there's a saying in the founding philosophy of this state, which is: the rest of the country in question is just the right time to say, "It's time." My dear friends, another crooked spot: 3,000, 4,000, 5,000, 6,000, especially on the beach band, Mediterranean coast and Aegean coast band, where the towns reach 100,000, 150k in summers are closed, but 800-population districts will survive, as is the province of Akkise, with a population of 3,000-odd Akkise. Here, Ceylan Arslan, the mayor of the National Movement Party, wrote a letter saying, "Find one from Allah." I'd like to present a copy of this letter to my fellow Justice and Development Party. My dear friends, I have expressed my words under three titles. First, it is persecution for municipalities from the MHP. I have to say with great conscience that the persecution of the presidents of MHP, whose name I am counting and whose name I cannot mention, is a thousand times worse than the persecution of Mr. Prime Minister when he was mayor of Istanbul. If you say we fell off the roof, don't throw people off the roof to get them off the roof. Be just, be prosperous, be reasonable. Hold on to the will of the voter, be respectful. Today the voter chooses us, tomorrow he chooses you. It's a rule of democracy. Second, it's a generalized by the Home Secretary. This is a dagger in the heart of democracy and democratic values concerning local governments. It is the duty of all Parliament to remove this dagger and put it in its place. The third is that the services of the local authorities are discussed by the great cities... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...intrigued legislation, which can eliminate what we call the indivisible integrity of Turkey. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit02spe0080par0259	Thank you, Mr. Honey. Congressmans, I'm taking a break from the merger until 7:35.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0080par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 328. The commission and the government are in place. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Huseyin Goddi, Manisa MP...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0006	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Law Proposal to Change the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. As I begin with my words, I salute your grand delegation with respect and love on behalf of myself and our group. My dear friends, local governments are the fundamental dynamic of the development of a country. There is no mention of the development, well-being of countries whose local governments are weak, their cities are uninhabitable, their upper and lower structures are inadequate, they have no social donuts. Local governments are like the mirrors of countries. In countries where local governments have developed, you can see that democracy has also developed human rights and freedoms because local governments are the cradle of democracy, capillaries. Local governments are the first public institutions to be available, where communities expect the most service, where they want it to be right next to them. Instead of an ordinary sense of local government, there is a need for a vision of a service-oriented, human-centered service that will create cities that are habitable, with high quality of life, with increased capacity to build national and international relations. Our local governments live in the golden age during the period of the AK PARTI rulings. The municipality's private administrations, local government units' laws have been revised according to today's needs, but on the other hand, the problems of our citizens that have been proliferated over the years have been formulated, solutions have been brought. Turkey's total development has been ensured that the share of local governments will be distributed equally within justice and rights, according to the criteria set in its law, so that our regions will not fall behind in the ministry. There is absolutely no distinction between municipalities. If BDP's valued deputies were here, I would have given them very specific explanations and answers from here, but they don't have them, so we'll talk when we're face-to-face. In particular, Mr. Tan expressed here, they mentioned loans from Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality. There is a difference, of course, but this difference is not because our EC PARTY is not acting equally, but because the mayors are producing services, producing projects. If the mayor he's talking about can't build a project, can't get a loan, then it's not our government's fault, of course. And we're seeing very clearly where these municipalities spend their resources, especially in TK operations. So it's not a comparison at the point of comparison, and I see it as a slander against our power. Hopefully, when we face each other, I'll give them details. Of course, my dear brothers and sisters, our esteemed deputies, Mr. Bal, have expressed it here. They don't have themselves, but their precious representatives are here. The cities were persecuted. They used the expression. I would say that no city has been discriminated against during the AK PARTY administrations, nor has it been persecuted, taken from its hands.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0082par0011	You can't state Adana City, you can't explain it.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0012	Mr. Shandır, Adana City has committed a crime, law has been arrested. Other than that, it is not true, of course, if you view the actions of the judiciary as the biased attitude of our government.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0083par0013	You've kept Sharkikarawood City for two years. For counterfeiting, for counterfeiting...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0014	Likewise, whichever city, whichever mayor was taken in...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0083par0015	You've hired the Mayor of the Justice and Development Party Sharkikara tree for two years. Look, I'm giving you an example.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0016	...whichever mayor is arrested is certainly not due to the justice of our power.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0083par0017	Come on, no, no. Mr. Hussein, talk to me about something else.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0019	They will answer to the judgement. If I've committed a crime, the same way, the judgment's gonna be on my back, and I'm gonna answer for it. Therefore, we must definitely know that our authority is not in unjust behavior, that it is not in the partisan approach. Mr. Glory especially remembers the era of power. In particular, you know that in the 1999 earthquake, a number of municipalities were helped, even though the earthquake did not help the municipality, and the wind didn't blow or shake, were helped. So you can't see the partisanism of your time in power in us.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0084par0020	Mr. Hussein, you need to put your name on it. Which municipality?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0021	Neither can we.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0085par0022	Which municipality is Mr. Hussein?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0023	I'll tell you in writing.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0085par0024	No, that's not it; no, no.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0025	I'll give it to you in writing. My dear friends...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0085par0027	I wish you'd come up with his name, Mr. Hussein.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0028	The Department of Public Works records are on the table.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0085par0029	After I cast this slander, I will also inform you. It does not suit you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0086par0030	Mr. Korkmaz, please don't interfere with the Hati.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0031	The Department of Public Works records are on the table, and I'm going to explain them to you one by one.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0085par0032	No, no, don't.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0087par0033	Express it to the community.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0081par0034	Dear lawmakers, our mayors are no longer looking for sister municipalities outside with our practices, with our regulations, with the arrangements, but the municipalities abroad come to Turkey and ask for brotherhood, and they are searching for a sister municipality. They want to take advantage of our knowledge, our savings, our experience. These, of course, are happy developments for our country. Of course, the most vivid and beautiful example of this is that our Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor, UCLG., the United Cities and Local Governments Organization of the World, has been elected President of the Third Congress. Mr. Topbas is also president of the Council of Local Administrations of the United Nations. The Vice President of the Council of Europe's Convention on Local and Regional Administrations, Antalya Muratpaşa, is a member of the Council of Parliament. In addition, many of our mayors have served in the upper management of international institutions and organisations. These have been the result of the successful work of Turkey's local governments in the country. We're revising the legal arrangements for Turkey's failure to fall behind in the race for civilization according to the needs of the age, but we're also trying to increase the institutions' ability to compete globally. Because my dear friends, local governments are based on human values, democratic values. My dear friends, we have ended negative practices in the area of local governments during the period of the AK PARTI administrations. We've made arrangements to bring financial and administrative autonomy to the municipalities. The clauses set when European Local Governments withdrawed from the autonomy requirements were again eliminated by the understanding of decentralisation, which provided financial and administrative autonomy during our time, by the reform of local governments based on the principles of locality and decentralisation, and by the conditions of autonomy for the European Local Governments. Dear lawmakers, local governments are the most important institutions in the country for the settlement, development and roots of democracy, as it turns out. Such important institutions must also be met in healthy, peaceful, and safe environments. The election of local administrations in our country is held every five years according to Article 8 of the Law on the Constitution's 127th and 2792th Mahalile Administrations and Neighborhood Mukhtars and Old People's Elections. A total of 14 local governments were held from 1930 to today, and the latest election, as you know, was held on 29 March 2009. The election calendar for the elections held at the end of March begins in January. Sadly, many sad events took place during the difficult winter elections. Due to negative conditions and weather opposition, transportation challenges and related accidents occur. On 25 March 2009, we lost the late Muhsin Yazoğlu, the leader of the Great Unity Party, as he went from Kahramanmarash to Yozgat. Once again I pray to him for mercy from God, and for patience with his family, and for those who love him, that his abode may be paradise. After the development of this hand at that time, all political party representatives said there should be no elections in the winter conditions, that the election date should be set at a more appropriate time. Dear lawmakers, propaganda is an important tool that allows citizens to be conscious, to have sufficient knowledge of political parties and to actively participate in the elections. Because of our country's geographical position, the election season in winter is difficult in all our regions, and our citizens are having difficulty running for office. Our political parties and candidates are also unable to run their campaign as requested. This change we are talking about today aims to provide environments that will make it easier for our political parties and candidates who will be elected to local government bodies to communicate with our citizens and interact with our citizens in election studies. It is accepted by all who want to use democratic rights by our political parties as well as our candidates in those heavy winter conditions, as well as by our citizens who want to go to the polls. Following the recent voice of power in public, the group's deputy leaders have contacted the Republican People's Party and the National Movement Party in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. During the talks, the main opposition party said yes as a principle of the move-up of the elections, but it was not agreed on the election date. Talks with the National Movement Party have been met with the favourable approach of the National Movement Party and the issue has been matured. EC PARTY and National Movement Party groups agreed that the election of local governments will be held every five years on the last Sunday of October, and that the elections should be held on 30 March 2014, on 27 October 2013. The following proposal of the law came to the agenda of the General Assembly with the signature of 309 of our MPs. The signatures issued on the Constitutional Amendment also show that the signatures of Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the Honourable President of the National Movement Party, State Bahlı, are at the beginning of these signatures. We're talking here today about this amendment to the Constitution - the proposed law. The signatures submitted to the Law Proposal on Constitutional Change show that Turkey agrees with a large agreement that the elections should be made on a more appropriate date than on winter terms. With this arrangement, the October month, where the climate conditions of the election date are more favourable, is expected to be brought to its last Sunday. After the temporary clause is in effect, the first general election of local administrations to be held on the last market in March 2014 will be held on October 27, 2013. As some politicians say, this offer is not an intervention in the will of choice, but to ensure that it uses its democratic rights in an easier and healthier environment. Dear lawmakers, five months ahead of the election of local administrations will ensure that mayors are able to start their own plans and projects at the beginning of their service period, as the mayors who came into office following the March elections have to spend a year with the budget of the previous mayor. Following the March elections, the president comes to the local government and waits a year to fulfill his commitments. It's a waste of time. It's a waste of time. With this change, our mayors will be elected in October, creating their own budget in November and December, allowing them to start their own plans and projects. Honourable MPs will also be elected by the first public president in Turkey for the first time in 2014. Given that the election process for the new President's election will begin 60 days ago on August 28, 2014, the two elections will be very close together, causing a tight schedule for our country as well. We'll be able to make a choice five months ahead of the election for the Mahalo administrations, in better terms, and in a healthier environment for the election of the 12th President. It is also suggested that the final joke of Article 67 of the Constitution, dated January 1, 1984, and the provisions of the District Administrations and the Elections of the Neighborhood and the Old Committees, should not only be implemented on the basis of the election's initial date and voting date and the day of its vote, in order to address the uncertainties that could lead to a debate in the application. So the final clause of Article 67 of the Constitution shall not be carried out in the elections within a year, starting when this provision is in effect. Turkey's 15th choice of decentralisations has already prayed for blessings for our country and our nation, and I wish that the change would bring new gains to our local governments and to our nation. As I end my words, I salute you all again with respect and love.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0088par0045	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker has distorted my speech on the loan used by Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality. I want the right to answer according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0089par0046	Here you go, Mr. Tan. Just before we get into a new mess. I'll give you three minutes.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0088par0050	Mr. President, my dear friends, I have told you very briefly and clearly that the Ankara Metropolitan Municipality and its participants have used $1.5 billion -- a total number of 1 billion, 447 million -- on bail. Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality used $332,000 loans, a third of $1 million, with 4,000 times the difference. Now, Mr. Speaker, there is no discrimination. Ankara Municipality has applied according to its rules, and Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality has not found this loan. I don't do polemics here. Do you promise me this? For example, the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality has a major project, the Dicle Valley Project. Mr. Prime Minister has taken it into the government program, he said. He's got credit agencies all over the world that he's been working on. Do you make this promise, and do you accept that the treasure will vouch for you? If you're making that promise, there's no need to do any polemics. I spoke to Mr. Veysel Eroglu myself. He said that unless the Prime Minister gives instructions about this, that the government should do it, or that they would not take any other approach to it, that such a thing is not on their agenda. I'm here to say, without polemics, okay, if the Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality brings this case back, with its credit, with its relevant institutions and documents, do you agree to bail it out?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0090par0052	Congressman...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0088par0053	Do you promise? It's okay if you promise. Let's not get polemic. He'll bring all his projects, and the treasure will vouch for him. My respects.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0090par0055	Listen to me... look...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0091par0056	Thank you. Yes, now...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0092par0058	Mr. President, Mr. Orator...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0091par0059	Just a second... your disciple is on the stand.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0093par0060	We've given a loan to the baraja, Mr. Prime Minister has instructed us.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0094par0061	Sir, here are the numbers. I don't know what to do. 2000-09, that's what the Minister of Finance gave me. $1.5 billion... promise me we'll get it.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0091par0062	Mr. Baluken, I'll listen to your disciple get off the stand.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0093par0063	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0095par0064	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0091par0065	Just a second, Congressman...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0096par0066	They have committed crimes against the mayors of our party, so they are now in prison. I'd like to make a statement on that.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0091par0067	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0096par0069	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Of course, when every operation against our local governments was conducted, we came here and shared all the details of that operation with you. Now, let's put all that stuff behind us. 36 of our former and new mayors are currently under arrest in prisons. Our nearly 150 council members and city councillors are currently being held in prisons, and all charges against them are a set of regulations that should not be in normal democratic law states as part of the freedom of speech, expression and organisation. What's interesting here is that Mr. Hatip, who is speaking here, has targeted the city of operations from two or three days ago everywhere he goes, and that's what we object to. The municipality was targeted by Mr. Hatibin two or three days later under judicial and police supervision. Before the operations on our entire municipality, open and look at the speeches of Huseyin Godverdi. At the Van City Hall, the judicial and law enforcement forces, who again perceived a speech that he had made on the street three days ago as a direct order, have taken action. Now, look at Van. Let's tell you about Van. You're taking six mayors into custody simultaneously in a city where they've seen an earthquake and still haven't covered the earthquake wounds. You put four of them in prison, one of them being our mayor of Van, and then you come from the Parliamentary platform and from the platform of democracy, which is supposed to be a mirror. There's nothing acceptable about it. That doesn't just apply to arrests. The educational support homes have been shut down one by one to render our local administrations dysfunctional. Look, I've talked to the Ministry of National Education over and over again, and under the direction of the Ministry of National Education, there's not a single clause in which education support houses are closed. Even Ministry officials don't know where this came from, what instructions it was given. It's not just educational support houses, so we know very well that the entire institutional functioning of the municipality is being directed by whom a process is directed to paralyse public service, and that Mr. Hatibin's record is not clean at all. I find it particularly good for the country that Mr. Hatib's duties with the local authorities have been completed, especially in this new MYK. In an operation against Batman City Hall, the court was recently announced on a television channel near the government as the court continued. So at this level, there's the fact that local governments have been subjected to genocide operations under direction. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0097par0076	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0098par0077	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0097par0078	Mr. Eroglu, why?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0098par0079	Mr. Altan Tan used my name to explain something...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0097par0080	About what? What did he say, Mr. Eroglu?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0098par0081	I spoke to Minister Veysel Eroglu about Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0099par0082	Promise me, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0097par0083	Mr. Eroglu, come in. It's only three minutes, and I think he's getting a lot of pick-ups, so I'll give him two minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0100par0087	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In particular, Mr. Diyarbakır MP Altan Tan has mentioned my name about Diyarbakır, about the projects. The Valley Project is here. Ben, it's just that this is a technical matter, first of all, that the DSI is leaning on this issue, and technically, this is the Valley Project because there's some work to be done on the Tigris River. If necessary, we'll technically give you all the support. I told you once. Otherwise, if the Prime Minister instructs us, we will do so, otherwise we will not do it. Besides, look, we've sacrificed a lot for Diyarbakir. When I was Minister of the Environment Forest, we gave each city one IPA project at the most, and in the end, it was needed in Diyarbakir. We've provided access to two projects for both solid waste disposal facilities and for treatment of the wastewater treatment plant. Besides, we've been doing whatever it takes in Diyarbakir since 2003. Diyarbakır, for example, had a problem with a pump station in drinking water. I was DSI General Manager at the time, so we figured it out. I personally followed the project of the river reforms, the wastewater treatment plant, and I was there when the opening took place.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0101par0092	Mr. Secretary, why don't you do it to Urbana?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0100par0093	So, in this way, let me make it very clear that we're not making any distinctions. Look, the biggest investments as DSI, the Tigris King's Daughter Pompaj, the Charm Watering, the Silvan Dam, the Ambar Dam...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0101par0095	Hilvan County has no drinking water, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0100par0096	...Pamukley Dam, all projects are being done. So, please, Mr. Altan Bey, it would be a good thing to mention the wonderful investments in Diyarbakır. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0102par0099	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0103par0100	Sir, Mr. Secretary, the Tigris Valley has been compromised, and I'd like to take your word for it.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0102par0101	No, not to answer; if there's teasing, I've listened, no teasing, Mr. Tan. He asked for something other than you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0103par0102	But he said something that didn't happen.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0104par0103	He's not supposed to be teasing, he's supposed to be rectifying information. He has a place in the Civil Charter. Don't speak without knowing it, it has a place in the Civil Code of 69.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0103par0104	Mr. Prime Minister didn't give me instructions. That's what I said. I told you he didn't give instructions. Why didn't he give instructions, I'm telling you that.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0105par0105	Mr. Tan, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0103par0106	It's in the government programme; there are 10 projects prepared and ranked.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0106par0107	Mr. President, in order to correct information, the Civil Code may take the stand according to 69.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0105par0108	So it's not a fix, it's not a tease. He said, "Let him explain something." He'll explain it another time.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0103par0109	We have made a great sacrifice for the land. And I'm calling to the Diyarbakır MPs: come out and answer me, what sacrifices have you made?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0105par0110	Here you go, Mr. God.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0107par0111	You just used my name and you're gonna...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0105par0112	Dear God, please don't give me any more trouble...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0108par0113	Sir, it's also a government mission, brother, so he's giving it out of his pocket?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0109par0114	So he gave it to you out of his pocket. Five billion dollars were put on the Black Sea highway, $5 billion. Every time it rains, the sea takes it away.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0110par0116	Here, two minutes...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0111par0119	My dear President, my dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I made my speech in writing, and I spoke the truth, and I spoke the truth. In fact, my words are clear, clear words, and we've been heard by everyone, but our fellow lawmakers who aren't here came later and made statements about my speaking here.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0112par0121	We've seen what you've been talking about, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0113par0122	We've seen it, sir. It's on the TV outside.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0111par0123	They've gone so far that they've made unpleasant statements that would even defame our organization's internal work. We're the party's keepers. Our mission, our title, whatever it is, it doesn't matter. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We run the rules of democracy.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0112par0124	You stay out of the other party's business...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0114par0125	Listen.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0115par0126	Listen.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0112par0127	You listen, don't shout from there.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0116par0128	Here's what I'm saying you did. That's what I'm saying here, so don't get involved in anyone else's business, mind your own business. Sir, he's made accusations that are incompatible with what I'm saying here. For example, my record is bad. What is it? Sir, I'm leaving, and then there's TK operations. Turn around and look at yourselves. Why do these TK operations happen, why do they do it? Go talk to the judge about this. This has nothing to do with us. Judgement is not an institution that acts on the orders of an MP. You're being unfair to the members of the judiciary.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0112par0129	You're instructing the court.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0117par0130	The Prime Minister says I've given instructions. Because we don't say it.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0116par0131	We said we didn't discriminate between our mayors. Mr. Secretary has expressed himself. When it comes down to it, we'll talk again. The only thing you're talking about is the center of Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0118par0133	Thank you, Mr. God.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0119par0134	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0118par0135	Wait a second, let him leave the podium, take his time.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0120par0136	...you can see that 11 bridge intersections were built by our government.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0118par0137	Dear God, please...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0120par0138	We don't accept these charges. My record's pretty clean, it's white. Please take a look at your record. You saw yourself in the mirror. Thank you. Have a good day.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0121par0141	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0122par0142	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0121par0143	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0122par0144	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0121par0145	Mr. Orator has also implied that I'm meddling in the affairs of our own party. I'm requesting a word for bullying.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0122par0146	Mr. Baluken, is this going to end here? I promise you, go ahead. Two minutes...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0123par0149	What's with the teasing?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0124par0150	Mr. President says everyone should look at their own party. This isn't about teasing.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0122par0151	All right, you take care of yourself, Mr. Elitaş. Please take your seat, take your own place.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0125par0153	My fellow lawmakers, of course, we are not involved in the internal affairs of the AK PARTY. I didn't mention anything about Mr. Hatibin's record, any record of law enforcement or general political work. I've shared with you the start of these operations two or three days ago on Mr. Vice President's statements in all operations related to these KCK operations. So I talked about the record of these operations, and I say it again. If you're curious about all of these operations, they're all in the press, the Internet. It can't be a coincidence that Mr. Vice President knew this two or three days before all operations were conducted. Besides, we've already instructed the judge to give instructions to the judiciary. We also know their statements. So it's not right for you to point out the phrases that we used in this way here as if they were used on your entire professional record. On the other hand, Mr. Orator said we should look in the mirror, especially when we're talking here. As we speak here, we've already had a conversation to mirror current operations. All of our friends were taken into custody and sent to prisons for their work under the freedom of thought, expression and organization. So, our request, Mr. Orator, is that Mr. Hatibin change his current approach to municipalities. Otherwise, we will never be a part of an argument over the person "A" and "B" in the MYK. But, Mr. Orator, I'd like you to know that I'm personally pleased as an individual that he's been directing a process...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0122par0156	Thank you. [[Continue]] Omer Süha Aldan, MP of Mudla, who has asked for a personal word on the proposal of the law.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0126par0164	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on my own behalf on the legal proposal to add the 20th amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, 328. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, the local elections, which must be held on Sunday (March 2014) with the regulation, will be held on the last Sunday of October 2013, October 27th, 2013. The reason for the proposal was that the regular election date campaign coincided with the winter months and the negativity of the winter conditions in certain parts of our country. But I know how hard the campaign is in the summer as a congressman. Especially during the referendum, and in the summer, it's a very difficult job to campaign for. On the other hand, there is one thing both in the Commission's report and in the speech of a few of the witnesses here, an assessment of the death of the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu. My hand has been killed by an accident, and therefore the negativity of the winter conditions is at stake. There is an approach like this, but let's not forget that there is a common perception that Muhsin Yazıoğlu has been assassinated. On the other hand, there is now an investigation into the death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu at Malatya Special Prosecutor's Court, even people who have been arrested. I wonder which one's true. So the court is doing the wrong thing? So, given the death of Mohsin Yazıoğlu, I don't think it would be the right approach. As far as I'm concerned, there are three main reasons why the election has been moved up. One of them: ruling parties often find elections more advantageous in autumn. Because people take summer vacations, they go to their villages, they don't pay to burn, they don't spend on school expenses, vegetable prices are cheap, inflation falls, people get jobs in the summer, tourism, agriculture. Thus, the ruling party found it appropriate to choose in the fall. Unfortunately, we opposition parties mean the general -- well, they ran away from the election. We had to accept this offer so we wouldn't be exposed to the pollen. That's the first reason. For the second reason, the second reason is the vulnerability in our country's economic picture. Unfortunately, the concept of import-related growth is actually not a growth, it's inflatable, we've had high growth rates, but in return, the current rate has increased exponentially. As a result, when it was discovered that the current deficit was taking the country to a bankruptcy point, the economy was tried to cool off this time. When the economy cooled, the real sector fell into difficult situations, and the UV and VAT taxes were difficult to pay. And then, of course, there was a public deficit, and that's what was done to cover the public deficit. The country is in such a vicious cycle that, financially speaking, it will fail quickly, unfortunately, or this bankruptcy process will be delayed. At this point, local elections were also put in front of us as a method of preventing the growth of economic vulnerability as quickly as possible. The third reason is: The All-city Project is called the Metropolitan - a sense of quick living. The number of major cities that are still 16 will be raised to 29. In fact, this arrangement is taken into account by the Metropolitan Project in the province of Muğla, which is the principle that we welcome to it, and we welcome to the fact that our Seydikemer town is a district, but -- there's an element in it, so to sum it up: The Metropolitan Project is an attempt to create 29 principals for the sultan in Ankara, which, in its understanding, is that they do not listen to Ankara. It is also called the Centre for Investment Watch and Coordination. The plan is this: if the AKP gets the capital, it's fine, but if the opposition parties get the big city, then the Watch Co-ordination Center will take over the city like a sledgehammer in a control mechanism. In this sense, 56 million people are included in the Metropolitan Law, but 19 million people are left out. In the process, municipalities that will serve 19 million people are cut off. It's a huge injustice to 19 million people. On the other hand, with this arrangement, the cities will actually be villaged. Imagine that the village of Cobanisa, which is two hundred miles [20 km] away. How's the big city gonna get a service here? Therefore, people who cannot serve in the village of Çobanisa, who cannot speak to the state, the municipality, will have to migrate to large cities, and the big cities will become villages, will become disorganized, there will be major problems in construction, and above all, they will bring with them these inflatable social problems. To give an example from my own constituency, 48 of 49 cities are being removed. These include Turgutreis in the basement, and silver, and many cities; Marmaris, and the village, and Fethiye, and Bodrum. They appeal to hundreds of thousands in the summer. You can't manage these things from Muğlah; you can't rule these municipalities from Muğlah. So the principle is that even though the city's municipality may seem attractive to people, it will basically bring with it many tribulations. In fact, the solution is clear to Mugla, where you first place the Fethiye, give a special status to Bodrum, and protect the environment in those tourist areas. My biggest concern now is the fact that, unfortunately, these beaches will be pursued under the scope of the Urban Project. On the other hand, it closes in a lot of towns. The presidents of the region -- especially the majority of them, the Justice and Development Party -- are in a great deal of distress, a great deal of anxiety. In addition, it is up to the governor's approval to allow the local mayors to live through their projects before they are closed. The example we see today is that the demands of the Justice and Development Party municipalities are immediately met. In contrast, the demands of other opposition mayors in the city are kept under water. As long as they fail, we'll be able to make a difference in the election. Thus, it is a great injustice to the locals that the cities are now inoperable. My proposal is clear on this matter. The Metropolitan municipal system must be adopted by majority vote or not, at least not in the next election. If this is found, there will be great chaos. In the current arrangement, it is not the solution to postpone or lower those people's payments for five years just so I can get the village votes. After a while, when the peasant sees how much he's paying for the water, the property tax, maybe he'll regret his vote, but it'll take years to undo the negativity that's going to take. My final statement is this: this is a hunting method, but Turkish political history is full of examples of hunting going hunting. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0127par0178	Thank you. On behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ, who wants a word on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0128par0181	Mr. President, I have been promised to explain our views as the government on the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0129par0182	Mr. President, the government doesn't actually have the right to speak here. This is completely outside the government. This Constitutional Amendment is the job of the House, not the government. He doesn't have the right to speak.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0127par0183	Mr. Young, keep what you know to yourself. That's the law.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0128par0184	The constitutional amendment proposal adds a new clause to the interim articles of the Constitution, and envisions the election of the local governments general in the last market of March 2014, on the last Sunday of October 2013, with a one-time election. Of course, under this change, you can look for very different meanings, anyone can say anything, but the bottom line is very clear, very clear. In terms of election conditions, there is a great need for this in Turkey to ensure that propaganda can be made healthy, in terms of the voter's right of choice, and for many other reasons. In fact, it's not just a need that came out today. Before that, in 1988, there was a change in the law during the time of the Motherland Party's rule, but the Constitutional Court called off the amendment in view of it as unconstitutional. Later, there was a step in the Constitution, but there was a public vote, and the citizen rejected the Constitutional amendment in a public vote. And that's what happened that day, and on that day, he was seen, evaluated, and asked to take a step in the matter, but it didn't pan out. I think that all parties agree on this, basically, because when you look at March and the time between the start of the election calendar and we consider what happened during that process, it's clear how accurate and appropriate an arrangement this arrangement is. Because on January 1st, the calendar begins. January is one of the most intense months of winter, February, and so is most of the March. These conditions take place in 81 districts of Turkey, all districts, all cities, although their weight and violence are different, they are very clear everywhere. Under the circumstances, it's clear that the campaign's propaganda can be made healthy... that the means to travel to and from the village in winter conditions... and other kinds of work in those weather conditions, the evening's very early start and when you evaluate all this, there is no healthy propaganda grounds. On the other hand, it is also a fact that voters have had serious difficulties with their parties, their candidates, their projects, their programmes, and their study. Therefore, we think it's a remarkable, significant step to remove obstacles to the political parties' ability to make propaganda in the comfort they desire, to allow all candidates to express themselves as they please, and to eliminate candidates, parties, programs, people, and access to propaganda. On the other hand, of course, there's a benefit to the budget. Let's say when the mayor is elected in March, he faces the president's schedule and budget. In fact, the year he was chosen, when you look at it this way, he's basically a lost year. If there is an election in October, the elected mayor will be able to make his own budget, provide opportunities and opportunities to implement his projects without delay. And indeed, for all of us is benefit and great benefit. In addition, Turkey will be elected president for the first time in 2014, directly by the public. Having two elections within the same year can also bring challenges. Therefore, for both choices to be made healthy, it is beneficial to bring it forward, and it is a great benefit for our nation and for all of us. AK PARTY didn't put it forward to smuggle goods out of a fire or get into some kind of account. Because it's our suggestion, but it's something that has the support of the National Movement Party -- I want to thank you here. If we were doing the math, wouldn't another party do the math? They'll do the math. When two rival parties account for each other, one of them is doing the math there. It would be extremely wrong to say. There's no account here; there's good in it for the people, there's good in it for the people, there's an effort to do the right thing, and there's an effort behind it that I don't have to look for books. That's what we're doing. Look, when you look at the current municipalities in Turkey, 56.68 per cent of the municipalities in Turkey are municipalities owned by the AK PARTY. We're going to an election; our citizen can make different decisions in the election, make changes in mayors, city councils, change those in power in the municipality, change those in power in parliament. We have such an opportunity, such a power. We say: "Let us go to the election five and a half months ago, let us stand before our nation, let the will be restored, and let the rulers be defeated, and let us serve if our people can, and let others serve if they can." What is better than this? It's a useful step in the right way for democracy to work. AK PARTY isn't bringing it because the economy is bad. I mean, that's just so wrong. If that happens, if the economy's bad, if things aren't good, if everything's bad, it's a place to bill, it's a citizen's bill. If the EC PARTY fails, the EC will bill the PARTY, and if others fail, they will bill it. If we can't do it, we're willing to pay the bill because whatever comes from our nation is our crown, it's precious to us. So far, we have welcomed every decision our nation has made. Dear friends, I'd like to share with you a few issues regarding the government bill, which has changed the Law on Metropolitan Municipality. This bill is essentially an important design. When you look at it, it's a bill that includes risks for the government, and also risks for the ruling group. When we brought this bill, we calculated all kinds of criticism, and we calculated this bill if there was going to be an invoice here. In fact, we've never had any doubts about doing what's right. If you remember, before we went to the 2009 Mahalli Governments election, we made the amendment to the closing of municipalities in Turkey's lower population of less than 2,000. The Constitutional Court has cancelled the partial and could not be implemented by the State's decision. We knew, of course, that in some places, our citizens would object. We knew, of course, that this would have a political bill, but we knew something else: If we continue with this structure, then our citizens' problems there will continue to wait for solutions. When you look at the budget revenues of municipalities, which have a population of 500, population of 1,500, and population of 1,500, there is no way for a municipality that can't afford the current costs to bring services to a citizen. It's just a building that pays employees, pays phone money, pays electricity, pays other current expenses, but when there's service, there's no structure to produce service. We're wasting resources. So let's do the right thing: let's take the right step, without wasting our resources, to conduct the ministry properly, by shutting down such municipalities, but by taking measures that won't be a victim. Now, these municipalities are closing down, but their services will continue for five years, and they will be assigned to the Provinces Bank, where the resources will be spent for their needs. The funds to the staff will now go directly to the public's service, private administrations will run those services, but the resources of the city's municipality will become available there because they will already be a capital city within the city limits. The services there will be better than today. We see it, we know it. Look, we've already made a decision about the closure of some courts in Turkey, and we've taken steps at that point. And when we threw it away, we thought of the benefits, the benefits of this country. If we were populists, if we were in political accounts, we would take other steps instead of taking these closing steps, but we see that we know that we can't make Turkey stronger with things that are wasted, with resources that are mismanaged, with money that aren't properly managed, we can't make local services more active and more efficient. So it is also our duty to take steps that will direct the money correctly, that will lead the ministry to the foot of our citizens, to make it effective and efficient. In this sense, this arrangement is an important arrangement, a historical arrangement, not an arrangement that divides Turkey. It would also be extremely wrong to upload that meaning, for in Istanbul, the city limits of the city are the city limits and have been implemented for quite some time. We've seen that in the field, it's a success. Look at Istanbul, there are no more villages, let's say there are no more villages, but there are more rural areas there. When you go there and ask our citizens, they say that they are better served and expressed their satisfaction when compared with the services they received after becoming a city municipality. What's going on today, what's going on here? As the city becomes a city, the village's road issue, the village's water issue, the village's sewage issue, environmental work, cleaning work are being handed over to municipalities. I mean, what's in this country for a city to run roads, clean jobs, sewers, water work? It doesn't split any sides. In fact, because it is a chest, when those who have the authority to do this service cannot do the service during that mandate, the citizen will be able to answer for it in the chest. And who's been running the countryside in the urban areas so far? The province was running general parliaments, leading troops to transport services to villages. As you looked at it, the steps we took regarding the city's general parliaments were also highly criticised. We took the governor out of the presidency, we elected a president, and then they said different things. Now, when we took all these steps, we saw that the result was useful. We took down the General Manager of Village Services, why? Yozgat is writing the drinking water issue in village A of Yozgat, writing the governor-in-law to the governor, reworking the village services to the county manager, the district is going to Kayseri, from Kayseri to General Manager, budget planning and so on, again, if he enters the program, he follows the same path to Yozgat. I get tired of talking about the way and the way the writing goes. What is Ankara doing with the water of Yozgat, Bahçik village of Yozgat? Let the municipality of Yozgat do it, and let their private administration do it. So when we brought this in, the apocalypse broke, now that we've done it, it's good to do it, things are going to work out at your place. In the Metropolitan municipalities, the mayors will figure it out. We don't just change a certain province of our country, a certain region in that sense, but when you look at it, we make the city limits of 14 old city municipalities, while we make 13 new city borders. It's in all parts of Turkey, it's in the Marmara, it's in the Aegean, it's in the Mediterranean, it's in the Central Anatolia, it's in the Black Sea, it's in the southeast and it's in the East. We're throwing this guy out in every area. It is also necessary to trust our nation and respect their authority. He'll choose citizens, he'll serve mayors, and when he can't provide services, he'll answer for them in the chest. If there are wrong-doers, they have control mechanisms; if there are criminal issues, then there are laws that are relevant, they do, but we think it's a historic and important step in order to ensure that services in this country are effective, efficient, and useful for the benefit of our citizens. We also know that, with a lot of misinformation on this subject, our people will be tried to confuse...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0130par0197	You're bringing in the Federation, the Federation!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0128par0198	...but we also know one thing: we have deep confidence that our citizen will appreciate this arrangement and will give its confirmation at the point where the arrangement is right and at the end. Because each step we take has contributed to the greater service of our citizens, to the more efficient and efficient fulfillment of their needs, and will continue to contribute. Our Ministry of Internal Affairs has issued a bulletin. That's right, it was a generalization of municipalities with a population of less than 2,000. What's his purpose? Its goal is to make a study at the closing point on these municipalities known to all public opinion. So we've set up a filter there to remove the real estate, the real estate they have, the good intent, maybe the need, at this point -- so that they don't go to waste at this point, don't damage the city, don't become useless to the benefit of our nation. So let's see if it works here, let's see, is real real estate or real estate really being sold out, or is it just a way to somehow get some other kind of liquidation, or is it just a way to meet the need that really exists? In that sense, a filter was put in, in good faith. Otherwise, you shouldn't be looking for different meanings, different meanings. In my province, in Yozgat, 36 municipalities are currently being closed. More than two thirds of these 36 cities are city municipalities from the AK PARTY. I also know what my brothers there said. In 2009, our mayors -- before 2009 -- came to us before this decision, and they said, "Our city is being shut down, so here's our problem. Then come, you answer to the people. We went together to the city, where we spoke. Is the waistline closed? Closing. It's happening against us. They said, "We've heard it." After that, I asked the mayor: Mr. President, how much is your allocation from Ankara? Here, he gave me a number, about this much... How much are your staff costs? Here, how much are your other expenses? So, when you spend this money, when you pay for it, how do you serve it? No service... Well, how do you do it? I don't pay the wages, he says. The workers there can't get their wages, the officers can't get their wages, the municipalities are in the executive clamps, so there's no way we can keep this structure going, we'll shut it down. We'll transport these workers to other locations, at their own request. We'll pay what they don't get, we'll pay the debts. From now on, the current will go away. Whatever money comes from the Bank of Provinces or other sources, this money will be used only to provide you with all kinds of needs for five years. Should we do that, or do we all know there's only one small town where the winning mayor's supporters are competing between relatives? There's no race between parties in the suburbs, there's a race between families. There, when you look, whichever one wins goes the other way. Should this order go on, or should we set up a mechanism to meet the needs of this village, this town, the people of the region? The citizen applauded us when I asked him. Next time, the mayors didn't take me. Why? Because we're doing the right thing. We're going to tell our people that we're doing it right. Our people have insight, and they think that they have the right guidance. We're not afraid of the chest either. There were three general elections, two local elections, two public ballots. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We've been in front of our people for almost a year and a half, and we've answered. Now, we're going to give in 2013, we're going to give in 2014, we're going to give in 2017, democracy is a good thing to answer for. I wish this change to be a blessing, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0131par0205	Mr. Secretary, it's not 17, it's 15...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0132par0206	Thank you. Yusef Başer, Yozgat MP who asked for a personal word on the proposal.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0133par0209	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the Constitutional Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, 328. I hereby salute your high council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers are held in our country once every five years according to the election of local governments, Article 127, Article of our Constitution, and Article 2972 and Article 8 of the Law on the Conventions of the Neighborhoods and Old People. The latest selection of local administrations was held in March 2009. It is stated that every Turkish citizen who has reached the age of 18 has the right to choose, choose, vote, participate in the people's vote, participate in political activities, and every Turkish citizen who has reached the age of 18. It is the duty of the state and the government to regulate the legal and infrastructure to ensure that these rights are met in a way that will not prevent any restrictions, no obstructions. One of the objectives of the proposed constitutional amendment is the government and the government's idea of carrying out this mission. As an important element of the democratic system, the role of local and national administrations is great in the maximum provision of pluralism, the reconciliation of local and national interests. Mahali administrations are also guarantees of representational democracy, of the local and public interests of the people. One of the main elements of democracy is propaganda. Propaganda is one of the tools that allows citizens to be conscious, to have sufficient information about the candidates of political parties and independent candidates, to actively participate in the elections as much as possible. For this reason, voters should best know the local governments and candidates who will manage them as the cradle of democracies, and those who are sure of the future, and the candidates and parties should best introduce themselves and their candidates to voters. Thus, it is one of the rules of democracy that elections are fair, neutral, equal, secure, maximum accession, and the removal of obstacles to propaganda are essential. If the provisions of Article 127 (2972) of our Constitution have not been changed, propaganda, which is a fundamental element of democracy, will not have been done enough. Due to the lack of awareness of our citizens, voters will not be able to access sufficient information about candidates and to participate in the elections at all. That means the public has to choose without knowing the people who will rule them. Such a choice is not possible in the spirit of democracy. It is not possible to accept such a choice as the AK PARTY, which is not in accordance with the spirit of democracy, which is incompatible with justice. Because, from the moment the EC PARTY was established, he struggled to remove obstacles in democracy, human rights, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of law, the rule of brotherhood, the fundamental rights and freedoms, and he will continue to fight, and that is one of the reasons why the EC PARTY exists. Mr. President, the election of local governments will be held on March 2014 if our Constitution does not change. At the time of the election of the Mahalal administrations, winter conditions are the most severe and difficult. During the election period between January's beginning and the last Sunday of March, especially the beginning of the election, Turkey's geographical position has been heavy in some of our regions, compared to our other regions, and this has had a negative impact on election propaganda and election work. For our citizens and for our politicians, it is difficult to participate in elections in difficult winter conditions and accidents. In the latest March 2009 Mahalli Elections, due to the negative weather conditions, we remember that we lost valuable political man Mohsin Yazıoğlu and his friends, who are sad, and once again we remember them from here. We also know and regret that our citizens, who are on their way to vote with the parties' agencies, have lost their lives due to negative weather conditions. As an AK PARTY, we don't want to relive such sad events. We don't want one's joy to be another's grief. Mr. President, we, the esteemed lawmakers, as the EC PARTI, aim to hold elections on a date that can minimize these negatives that took place during the election period between January and March. A temporary clause added to our Constitution with this thought was intended to prepare the environment that will secure and freely communicate with citizens in the election work of candidates who will be elected to our political parties or local government bodies. As the election date, Turkey's climate conditions were most favourable, and the law was offered on the last Sunday of October. To this end, the first general election of local administrations, which should be held in March 2014 after the interim Article 20, which will be added to our Constitution, is scheduled to take place in October 2013. The first choice of local administrations to be made with the proposal was intended to prevent any uncertainty that might arise regarding the initial date and the date of the voter day, and different views that would lead to discussion in the implementation. In this regard, the last clause of our Constitution, Article 67, and Law 2979, will not only be implemented on the basis of the election's initial date and voting date. Thus, the final sentence of Article 67 of the Constitution shall be followed in the same way as the provisions and election laws of Law 2979, outside the start date of the election and the day of voting. Other amendments to the election laws will not be implemented in the elections within a year, starting with the start date and the day of voting in implementing the last joke of the 67th article. Mr. President, in the June 12th elections, we, and all other political parties, have asked our citizens to vote in accordance with the needs of the age; democratic, libertarian, civilian, participating new constitution, and we have promised our citizens. As with the first constitutional amendment that we're going to vote on today, I firmly believe that this Parliament should issue a constitution that no one else has, no one else has, that all of our citizens can call it. Because I would like to shout once again from here that Turkey does not deserve to be ruled by the 82 Constitution, which was the product of the coup 30 years ago, when the coup attempt was investigated by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. We, the AK PARTY, fulfill our commitment to our citizens. To this end, we accepted the representation of political parties in the Constitutional Compromise Commission with an equal member regardless of the number of parliamentary parties, declaring to our sainted nation that we are opposed to the majority pressing on the minority. As the EC PARTY, we want to submit the new constitution to our nation, regardless of the conditions, and we want to bring the new constitution to our citizens and to the people of the country. As it is today, he wishes to adopt a new, civil constitution, which I hereby salute your grand delegation, hoping that the Law Proposal 328 will be passed.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0134par0221	Thank you. There will now be a 20-minute question-and-answer procedure. Ten minutes is the time to ask questions. Mr. Dibek, Mr. Erdemir, Mr. Kurt, Mr. Tanal, Mr. Yilmaz and Mr. Kuşoglu have entered the system. Mr. Dibek, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0135par0225	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister: Now, with this change, we're going to hold local elections on the last Sunday of October. Our biggest holiday is Republic Day, October 29th, so it's the end of October. I looked into the calendar five years later, so the last day of October 2018 is October 28th. That's the afternoon that Republic Day started. Now, there's a process here that will eventually conflict with Republic Day. Why are you bringing this assessment to the Assembly's agenda on the first Sunday of November, the first Sunday of November, the week after tomorrow, to a local election the day after tomorrow, our biggest holiday, our national holiday, the Republic Day? Isn't it better to make this arrangement in a week as the first Sunday of November?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0134par0227	Thank you. Mr. Erdemir...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0136par0229	Mr. President, we've requested a brief statement from the esteemed MPs. Five or six hours later, you're back to ask us questions. At least for this occasion, I'll be able to express my brief word in the remaining 45 seconds. Today, in the European Union's Integration Commission, we have hosted a delegation of former European Parliament presidents, Pat Cox. At this meeting, we expressed with his power that Turkey, with his opposition, is in a joint and decisive position in the European Union's accession process. We have also expressed that we do not see the same determination in both the Prime Minister's final statements and in the statements of both the President and the Chief Negotiator and the Minister of the European Union. As a result, our society wishes for the development of a more visionary, discreet and constructive policy in the European Union process, a project of peace, democratic governance and pluralism. That's what I wanted to express. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0137par0233	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0138par0235	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, moving up the election, bringing up a serious constitutional right. So I don't think it's the right reason for a government to feel the need to hold a referendum with people in the area when I'm pushing that right forward. The law that a ruling who wants to improve local democracy in particular shouldn't be like the law you're about to make. Because you're narrowing down the authority of the municipalities, you're expanding the authority of the central administration, and then we're moving on to local democracy, so we're moving the election forward. It's a contradiction. How do you explain that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0139par0238	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0140par0240	Thank you, Mr. President. AKP spokesmen have lifted the European Local Governments Autonomous Condition. They have made a statement on the stand. I'd like to know from the Minister if the European State of Emergency has really lifted the reservations set by the state of the Republic of Turkey, which is published in the issue, the date, and what official paper; this is one. Two: Mr. Deputy Prime Minister used the following sentence in the presidential election: "The electors are subject to the law of the time when they were elected." What does that mean? If the president is elected for seven years, he is seven years old, not five years old. Well, in the same way, aren't elected mayors and chiefs subject to the law of the elected era? Isn't that a violation of the principle of constitutional equality? My third question is...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0141par0245	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0142par0247	Thank you. Minister, you've been putting up a mortgage on the will of the people of Adana for thirty-three months. For thirty-three months, the mayor of the city of Adana has been suspended. You've sent 83 inspectors, and the reason for the purchase is that the evidence has been blacked out. You still haven't been able to find the evidence with 83 inspectors, and how many other investigators do you intend to send to Adana Metropolitan Municipality after that? And my second question -- again, the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs can answer -- do you continue to punish the people of Adana by bringing to the point of destroying the Adana fair area, the only investment you've made in Adana in the last ten years, with Mr. Minister's personal efforts? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0143par0251	Thank you. Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0144par0253	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, during your talks, you said that spending is mostly going to personnel expenses, especially because of the high spending of city municipalities, because their costs are high. Therefore, you stated that they did not have to serve. Is there any benefit-altering analysis of this particular area of municipalities? So how much will this contribute to the budget, how much will it contribute, how much will it benefit financially or how much benefit, what would the alternative benefit be, has such a study been done? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0145par0256	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0146par0258	Minister, Malatya's most famous factory is the car repair factory, which has not produced in 23 years. The car repair factory, completed in 1989, was considered for almost every sector except for car repair, which unfortunately was not implemented. The factory that doesn't produce cars was thought to be used for production, such as apricots, guns, tanks, but has never been done. The factory, which has been held by the state for 23 years, has been reportedly under construction by the Ministry of Justice to build a semi-open prison. This is the best indication of the government's view of the world. The government that didn't produce found the shortest way to prison. They're trying to make the factories a prison because they can't find a place to fill the prisons and move them. What else could you expect from the mentality that put 20 people in the eight-person wards? Malatians have a very strong reaction to the transformation of this factory's production facility into a prison. Do you have a project on the subject... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'd like to ask you about my product. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0147par0262	Thank you. Mr. Firat...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0148par0264	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, in the context of the autonomy of the European Union, you know, we voted against it. When do we say yes to this autonomy law? Do you have this kind of work? Besides, you know we're on the brink of war with Syria, but unfortunately we still haven't made peace in Turkey. Some rights must be given to the Kurds in order to ensure civil peace. Finally, for example, the Diyarbakır Chief of Police has expressed a humanitarian sense that those who died in the mountains should also cry. Do you agree with this as a government? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0149par0268	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0150par0270	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we're talking about a constitutional amendment to local government, about its prioritization. According to the press, a constitutional amendment is also being considered to reduce the age of selection to eighteen. Is it the right thing to do constitutional changes so quickly, so quickly, so quickly, and not in general? Should the Constitution be changed so quickly? Shouldn't there be a seriousness, an approach, or a whole approach? Don't you think you've broken the integrity of this Constitution when you've made the constitutional amendment an ordinary legal change? And while these changes are being made, the work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission is under way. Then why are you doing the Constitutional Compromise Commission work, so why is it such a commission study? Well, then, he's got a lot of... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it doesn't make sense because it's bypassed.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0151par0275	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0152par0277	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what measures are you taking to prevent the rights loss of elected mayors and chiefs with the push-up of the elections?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0151par0279	Thank you. Mr. Acar...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0153par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've described the sad state of the city where you'll be closing. Aren't you the one who put problems in this position by not solving them for ten years? Isn't it better to make it work by increasing their income where you're going to shut it down? In Turkey, you bring a new structure, and all of our people have concerns that this construction will open the door to a federative structure, and do you not see whether or not you are justified in that concern? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0154par0284	Thank you. Mr. Oğan.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0155par0286	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, at Iğdır Municipality, the Idır municipality in BDP is now without construction due to the cancellation of the development, and there is no new work to be done. There were dozens of city inspectors, but they couldn't get out of it. Does your ministry have a study of the Iğdır municipality, which has been abandoned, which is virtually impossible to build while the municipalities are negotiating the law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0156par0289	Thank you. The time for asking questions is complete. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0157par0292	Mr. President, the valuable MPs, the question of Mr. Dibek, the first question is... the last Sunday of October, the election of 2018, is equivalent to the Republic Day, isn't it calculated? Now, of course, when the election was the last market in March, at that time, you know, religious holidays do this kind of thing, you know, in front, in the back, in the calendar. He could have come, he could have come, he could have come. Republic Day is one of our most important national holidays. If it comes to Republic Day, the festival of democracy and Republic Day will be united. Our Republic will have the holiday of democracy, the crown of democracy, so it won't be a mistake. There's no ulterior motive here, it's a step of pure good faith. I don't see any understanding or searching under this. As I was saying, if there was such a confrontation, it would be crowned with democracy, and we think it would suit the republic's spirit. Otherwise, there's no account here. Mr. Kurt, this constitutional right is now being moved up, so when the elections of municipalities are moved up by five and a half months, they step forward. Have you considered a referendum? So we didn't think about it because basically referendums are a way of looking for compromise in the public when there's no compromise in parliament. If there is a consensus in parliament, if there is a consensus, if there is no hesitation in it, and there is no need to go to the public, but if Parliament decides, let's go to the people and ask our people about it. Of course the way is clear. But there is a compromise between the National Movement Party and the AK PARTY groups. This is a consensus that the Constitution seeks to change the constitution is sufficient for the majority. So at this point...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0158par0296	Mr. Secretary, let's referenda in closing municipalities.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0157par0297	Yeah... Mr. Tanal's Condition of Local Governments... has also been asked by another member of parliament. It is not removed at this time, it is still in existence. The elected president is subject to the law of the time when he was elected president. That's right, I've expressed it, it's subject to the law of the time when it's chosen. You know, the Constitution had been modified, it had been stated that its term had been five years, but there had been a gap in the mandate of the current President. In a manner that will be fulfilled. There is no way to shorten the time specified in the Constitution with the law when a legal arrangement is being made at the point of setting that time. As a matter of fact, the Constitutional Court ruled out the amendment in 1988. You cannot shorten a period in the Constitution by law, nor is it true. If the amendment to the President's mandate had been made, then there would have been no conflict. We expressed it, there's no difference between what I said then and what I said now. At the moment, the Parliament uses the authority to make a constitution and makes a change in the Constitution, and at this point it demonstrates will. Of course, if the Constitution had not changed, it would have been wrong if it had been done by law. In addition, the Parliament can, of course, change the terms of the Constitution. But we've always expressed that it's not true about the elected officials, and it's also useful to say that it's not true. But here -- we've just said -- there's a huge obligation, so there's a good intention to take a step forward, not to take someone off the job, or to get some benefit, but to take a step in line with the reality of the country, I'd like to express it in particular. Yes, Mr. Yilmaz. On the people of Adana, there was a question of the events related to Adana Municipality. You know this subject is now Adana 4. There's a trial going on at the High Criminal Court.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0159par0303	You extend it every two months. Look, don't give false information about the court. It's not about the trial.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0160par0304	Melih kyzcek is on trial too. Come on, take it!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0159par0305	Mr. Secretary, I beg you not to give false information to the General Assembly. The Home Office extends it every two months. You're giving false information.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0306	Therefore, I don't think it's right to talk about a matter in the court. Because it's against the Constitution and the Civil Code, but I can also state that investigations or investigations of municipalities can be carried out by the administration. From time to time, Turkey has this kind of study of all municipalities, investigation permits.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0159par0307	Why don't you do something about Istanbul and Ankara? You're relieved of duty every two months.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0308	I'd like to share my numbers with you, if I may. I'm disintegrating the decision to be allowed to investigate between 29.03,2009 and 01,07,2012 according to political parties. AK PARTY...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0159par0309	It's all part of the AKP's mayoral term. Why don't you give me that information?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0310	Sir, if you'll listen... The EC has decided on 545 mayors, 41.1 per cent. 200 mayors from the National Movement Party have been granted permission, 15.05 per cent. There are 378 permits for the Republican People's Party, 28.44 per cent. 84 on the Peace and Democracy Party, 6.32 per cent.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0159par0312	Take Istanbul, Istanbul! 30 people are in Istanbul City because of the land dump.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0313	There are others, 122, 9.18 percent.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0159par0314	Why don't you take a look at the Istanbul City Department about the land dump?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0315	Permission to investigate is also a distribution of research, preliminary review and preliminary examination approvals from the Ministry, among the same dates, according to political parties.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0162par0316	Is there one conviction, Mr. Secretary, one conviction?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0317	1.461 approvals have been made regarding the AK PARTY, 45.96 per cent of all approvals. It's about CHP...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0318	Mr. Secretary, do not read the report that comes before you, give us accurate information.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0319	These are official figures, sir. These are official figures.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0320	Here, don't read them. Is there a conviction?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0321	The CHP is 946, 29.76 per cent. 382 on the DP, 12.02 per cent. 144 on the BDP, 4.53 per cent on the BDP. The others are 246. Now, look...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0323	Mr. Secretary, why don't you relieve the mayor of Istanbul for two months... 30 people are in custody.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0164par0324	Mr. Yilmaz, please... you asked a question, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0325	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I have all the numbers on these, and I know you'll lose patience when I read them all, but let me make one thing clear.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0326	No, we won't lose patience if you tell the truth.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0327	It is a legal matter for both the People's Party of the Republic and the National Party of Peace and Democracy and the independents to conduct an investigation, investigation and so on. The operations are held indiscriminately in all municipalities.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0328	Give me an example, Mr. Secretary of the Metropolitans.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0329	This includes municipalities from the EC PARTY, and other municipalities from other parties.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0330	Can you show me one example, a second example, other than Adana?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0161par0331	There's no favor here, no side here. I...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0165par0332	Iconia Karapınar Mr. Secretary, Çorum Municipality...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0163par0333	Show me a second example, other than Adana.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0166par0334	Why didn't you do it at Ankara City Hall?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0165par0335	Sharkikara tree municipality...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0167par0336	Mr. Kuşoglu said, "Was there a benefit-altering analysis of the closed municipalities?" Of course, there were serious studies, debates, before the 2009 election of local administrations. Now, for a long time, both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Treasury and the Treasury Department, all relevant units have been working on this. These municipalities, of course, have served in our time -- we've been in power for ten years. We have mobilized our means to make sure that their services are good. But the city's revenues are set, the revenues are set, the population is set, the staff is set, the other equipment is set, the resources are clear. We're looking at this income, this equipment, these possibilities, are we or are we not able to do the local services that our people expect when we use them together? There's no efficiency here, there's no use. Besides, there's something against our citizens. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0168par0338	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0169par0339	Mr. President, they didn't answer our question.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0167par0340	There wasn't enough time.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0170par0341	Mr. President, will they answer in writing?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit03spe0171par0342	The QA is complete. This concludes the talks on the entire proposal for the constitutional amendment. We'll take a secret vote on the transfer of the proposal. I propose how the secret vote will be held: from the Commission and the Government, from the Clerk Members to the Clerk of the Commission, from the Clerk, to Denizli, from Denizli and from Diyarbakır, from İstanbul to İstanbul; from İzmir to Mardin, and from Mersin to Zonguldak, from Mardin, to Zonguldak. The MPs won't be able to vote anywhere but the cabinets to the right and to the left of the presidential stand. The MPs will also vote in the department of the ministry's province, where they will vote in its place. As you know, one of these stamps is the white one, the red one is the rejection, and the green one is the abstention vote. After receiving three round stamps from the Clerk Member to use the game, and having his name marked in the name book, he will enter the closed voting place, where he will vote, where he will place the stamp in the envelope, and the other two stamps in the cart. On the contrary, the letter containing the voting stamp will be placed in the ballot box in front of the Presidential Court's bench. No stamps or envelopes will be given to the MP whose name is not read in the vote. Now, we begin the secret vote in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] Members of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister Beşir Atalay, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz, Minister of Economics Mehmet Zafer Çağlan, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ and Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdoğan will take the place of Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç, Transport, Maritime and Communications Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker and the AKP. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? Congressmans, the voting process is complete. Please lift the cups. [[The votes have been discriminated]] Members of parliament, as a result of a secret vote on the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey regarding the adoption of the articles of the Law Proposal: [[Applause]] Congressmans, I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0171par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 328. The commission and the government are in place. ON THE RIGHT TO CHANGE THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY REPUBLIC The Constitution of Republic of Turkey No. 2709, dated 1-7/11/1982, added the following temporary clause to the Constitution. "The day of voting in the first general election of local administrations after the adoption of this Law is the last Sunday of October 2013. According to the first joke, the last joke of the 67th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey shall not be applied on the basis of the first date of the election and the provisions of the Law on the election of Mahalli Administrations No. 18/1/1984 and the District Conventions and the election of the Old Committees." Murat Bozlak, Adana MP who has asked on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Article 1.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0172par0012	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have been promised to speak for the BDP Group on the 1st Amendment to the Constitution of Republic of Turkey, 328. I hereby salute the General Assembly. The main propaganda of the June 12, 2011 elections for all parties was to draft a non-refusal, non-refusal, new civil constitution based on human rights, based on the rule of law, which was the result of the September 12 fascist coup of the Assembly, and to dump the Constitution of 1982 into history's trash. As a matter of fact, after the election, the commission to draft the new constitution that was promised to our people by Mr. Speaker was given the start of the work. The Constitutional Compromise Commission, which has an equal number of members of four political parties in parliament, has been working for nearly a year. The main reason why it was taken from political parties who were members of the commission, regardless of its digital power, was to draft a common constitution, which it allied over everyone. This proposal for a change in the constitution shows that this ideal has been abandoned. Because the AKP, which took the MPP with it, didn't even hear the need to talk to the BDP, nor did it care much about CHP. Dear lawmakers, the AKP, which has come to this point, clearly and clearly, according to us, has abandoned the ongoing work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission today. The logic that eliminates the two political parties represented in parliament, which are in the Constitutional Compromise Commission at the first opportunity, can never be the reason to draft a constitution that will be a result of common will. This bill, envisioning amendments in the Constitution, is an official declaration of the AKP's end in the work of the Compromise Commission. Dear lawmakers, with the proposal of the law, the elections are to be moved up five months. The basis of both the proposal of the law and the Constitutional Commission has pointed out that propaganda is very important in terms of elections, that March is not suitable for the election date for appropriate conditions and effective propaganda, that winter conditions negatively affect propaganda work, that the election date should therefore be moved forward for five months. The chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Burhan Lamb, went one step further and stated that the chairman of the Grand Union Party had died in a helicopter crash due to winter conditions. Mr. Lamb probably doesn't know about the investigations. These reasons have been their reason for coming since the end of time. If the winter conditions did not allow propaganda, the election date would be postponed two or three months, instead of five months ahead, and local elections could be held during a much more suitable season. That's a reason to hide true intent. As it is known, the presidential election will be held in 2014. The AKP does not want to make two elections together in the same year. That's the first reason why you want change. The second reason is to prevent people from asking the AKP in the polls about their winter conditions. The AKP wants to gain political credit by going to the election right after the summer's abundance. The AKP wants to move up the election date for them, but I don't understand why the MHP wants them. Deputies of the Constitution have clearly stated that local elections will be held every five years. Today, in our country, it is known that local governments are completely under the guardianship of central administration. The 1982 Constitution, Article 127, provided protection in a way for local governments, which are unable to breathe through the intervention of the central administration, at least not before their elections are put forward. A ruling party as a result of the general elections may not be strong in the local area. The 127th article is a clause in which authorities who want to have power in the local region are brought forward on local election dates so that they do not intervene in their own favours. With Article 127 of the Constitution, it was intended to prevent a choice that would be made logical to match the teeth of the wheel. At the point of respecting the will of the people who elected local rulers, the AKP has unfortunately fallen behind even the constitution of the Kenan universe. Dear lawmakers need to go to a serious structural change to save local governments from the custody of the central administration before local elections are brought forward. To keep local governments from looking Ankara in the eye for every job they can do, to wait for approval in Ankara, to get the money assigned to them at the beginning of each month, to crawl in the queues in Ankara, to make the local rulers look like beggars. Rather than prioritize local elections, we need to free local governments from dysfunctional parliaments, which have not even as much authority as a company's administration in terms of their powers, whose name is "Meclis," and to bring them to parliaments that are literally equipped with power and duty. Deploy some of the Central Administration's powers, let's all turn them over together, form autonomous administrations in the locals. Come on, let's do this together. Dear lawmakers, the 1982 Constitution, which was the work of September 12th coupgers, has been changed over and over again. Our people's expectations are not that an antidemocratic 1982 Constitution, which is incompatible with our social reality, but that it is prepared for a whole new, democratic constitution, in accordance with our social reality. With this change offer, the AKP has also left our people's expectations for another spring. I want to stress that with alliances created or created on the axis of Turkish nationalism, there will be no way to solve our social problems with changes in the fundamental laws. Such alliances took place in the past. This country must now leave behind these alliances that alter, divide, cause polarization. Members of parliament, another goal of this proposal is the AKP's desire to reclaim municipalities in BDP's hands. During the AKP ruling period, the overwhelming majority of local BDP executives were put in prison by political decisions. We now have 36 mayors in prison. Almost all of our city council members and city council members are in prison. In all, 8,000 of our local executives, party workers, mayors and executives are still in prison. The AKP is eager to step up local elections and take some municipalities from the BDP. I address friends of the AKP: Never act with such enthusiasm. The BDP is integrated with the public, with its constituency. If that's what you're going to do, we call it a challenge, and our people will teach you the lesson you need in the first local election. Dear lawmakers, the priority issue of this country is not to prioritize local elections. What would happen if you didn't put the local elections first in a conflict where almost 10 of our young people die every day, where dozens of families get shot at every day? It is not the country's priority to prioritize local elections during the war with Syria. This Parliament's duty is to maintain peace, peace, and stop the blood of the brother that flows before moving up the local election date. Let's all stop this blood flowing together. In the AKP Congress, the Prime Minister said that our way is the way of Menderes, the way of Ozal, the way of Erbakan the late. Now, I'm speaking to my friends from the AKP: if you're really on your way to Erbakan, you'll solve the Kurdish matter before you take the local elections forward... you can afford it, and there's no one to run a tank against you, just want to figure it out. Both the Kurdish people and the Turkish people hope that the local elections will not be premature, but will be a peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem. If you do so, if you can demonstrate this resolution's will, we will support you to the end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, we and our people will stand up to your wrongs, and we'll teach you the lesson you need in the local elections. I hope and hope that your way shall be the way of the late Ozal, and of Erbakan the deceased; and there shall be no way of Demirel and Cirler. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0173par0029	Thank you. Nevzat Korkmaz, MP of Isparta, who has asked for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0174par0032	Mr. President, we are here to discuss the proposed law by the AKP and the National Movement Party, which has changed the Constitution for the October 2013 27th of March 2014 and thus getting the elections five months earlier. I present to you the views of the National Movement Party on Article 1. I salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, local governments -- municipalities and villages -- are public legal personalities that serve with decision-making and executive bodies, chosen to see local services for their residents. They are the centuries-old institutions that inherited our administrative system from the Ottoman state. It is one of the most important tools of the citizen's participation in direct management and decision-making mechanisms. Local municipalities, which were needed for their services after birth or even after death, have cost public attention with greater resources, and have become more of an attraction to the public. Candidates or candidates for the mayoral council and the mayoral candidates, if elected, will declare how they will serve, what services they will serve citizens before the election. The citizen uses the game by looking at these programs. In local elections, citizens make more candidate assessments than general elections. In this regard, local elections bring to the forefront of the propaganda methods run by candidates themselves. Therefore, compared to the general elections, the time and process of propaganda in the local elections are an opportunity to be carefully used. During this time, both the candidate and propaganda reveal the quality of the public's access to clarity or difficulties as a result of the national will of local elections. Here, dear friends, the main reason for the five months ahead of the local elections is the challenges of winter. Sir, they say the election is at the end of March, in the spring. Let's not forget the propaganda time and the time began at least three to four months ago. In this sense, the day of voting is the end, the end of a process that has priority. Then wouldn't it be appropriate for the propaganda process to live in a more reasonable season? Wouldn't that be appropriate for all parties? Of course, what I've said is true of political parties who have come to claim responsibility for all municipalities, rather than being satisfied with what they've won in the past and hiding behind them. Honestly, I don't think there's a party in this House that doesn't carry this claim. Is it possible, then, that the national will should be executed at once and that we would not seek to win the election? There are some objections, sir, the mayors, the chiefs have been elected for five years, they have programs. Why don't you let them complete these work schedules? Of course, different dimensions, different opinions can be made, but everyone in this General Assembly will agree that whether it's four years or five years, the evaluation of the first period of this period is based on the establishment of working teams. His last year is now a collection of polls to win in the chest, which is now called the paint polishing work among the public. It's been the last year, driven by political and election concerns. And I don't think our country and our people have lost anything. Besides, the precious lawmakers, the months we save are winter months. If you keep out the settlements of the Mediterranean and South Aegean coasts, where winter does not occur much in our country, it will take up a period of construction season. Then there's no point in contesting October 27th. Sir, this acquish from the Constitution is being changed. You say. However, the fact that the general election's date has been moved up once again is being changed in the Constitution. Does this House have the authority? Of course I do. Otherwise, you can't change the Constitution as a representative. It means that you can't change the Constitution. I don't think you'd mean that at a time when the work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission continues. This Parliament has reduced the five-year term of its members from five to four years in the 23rd term. So the city that hasn't worked for four or five years is going to do wonders and be re-elected in the last six months? What do you think is the validity of such a thing? I also don't think that the successful municipality, which has produced four or five years of service, will be harmful and unfair. People will give rights to successful presidents or mayors or general council members of the province. Don't let anyone doubt it. If so, there will be loss of self - control due to failure to complete the process. It is understandable. As the National Movement Party, we have a proposal for a law in which they will be paid their wages and other rights to be paid to them. We don't want anyone to lose money, especially not pension rights. Come on, support this offer, and we'll all put this anxiety away. Dear lawmakers, as you know, if this change is not made, if the local elections are not held at the end of 2013, the 2014 presidential election will be held with these elections and only three months apart in the same year. In such a case, there is bound to be some confusion in the discovery of the free and open will of the chosen one. At a time like this, not just candidates, but all political parties will fall into this chaos, and I don't even want to talk about it, but they'll find themselves in some kind of political negotiation. The effects of this chaos will continue until at least the next election, where people will be in the midst of new discussions, new tensions, new camps. There is no way to explain such a process to a country that has already lost blood in camps, not with democracy and not with publicism or human rights. Turkey won't be making the first early elections, valued lawmakers. So far, there have been many early general elections in our political history, the will of the nation. The example of early local elections is also present in our political history. In 1973, the local elections, which should have been held in 1978, were held in 1977. After the elections, why was he moved up a year earlier? A dissatisfaction such as that was not expressed. We as the National Movement Party know that the recent AKP (AKP), particularly the issue of terrorism, Syria, electricity, the recent increase in natural gas, earthquakes in education, the debate of the country's integrity and negotiations with the terrorist organisation and AKP (AKP) have caused serious erosion in the nation's trust in the government. In local elections, we see that the people will give a very serious warning to the AKP, and that the process will be the beginning of the end for the AKP, and we see that AKP municipalities are running out of credits. You can easily see that from the government's brutalisation of opposition municipalities, the efforts to control the national will that the government has failed to overcome in the polls through judicial and police pressure. Mr. AKP MP Godifed AKP has tried to close the discrimination practices of its government against opposition municipalities with words such as the work of the judiciary. He said they stood equal distance from all the municipalities. If there were grants and project assistance, I would point out that opposition municipalities -- opposition municipalities -- were unable to produce projects. This, for one thing, is a violation of the will of the people who voted for these people, not these people. It's a need for democratic personality to believe in the truth of the public's choice. When you blame voters for people who say they don't know how to do the project, remember that the people vote for you as you condemn the public. Those who vote for us are good, those who don't give us bad. To bring them to the point must be the result of your twisted stand against democracy. That's how we know why all operations are being conducted in opposition municipalities. In the same situation, you also explain to us the reason for your disregard for AKP-based municipalities and forbearance. Yes, the power is in you today, and the government is in you, but you can't be oppressed by persecution, and one day it will turn round, and the account will come back. We will see together. Dear lawmakers, October 27, 2013, will be the history of AKP's failing in the idea of unfair municipalism. It will be the date when the nation slapped the terrorist organization's negotiating table friend AKP (Kakish) with a national slap. Recently, the gas increase has reached 49 per cent in a year. I'll point out that this is the number of votes received by the AKP. Don't we always say: "APP equals increase, persecution." Here's proof of that, and hopefully the early local elections six months ago will be for the good of the nation.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0175par0048	Thank you. Ugur Bayraktutan, Artvin MP who has asked for the Republican People's Party Group on the matter.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0176par0051	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 1st Amendment to the Constitution of Republic of Turkey, 328. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the proposal brought to the Constitutional Commission by the government says that the negatives of the harsh climate conditions in March are a common demand for every healthy election, that propaganda has easy access to your election, that voting in a peaceful and peaceful environment is intended for a maximum extent of security and road safety. Dear lawmakers, when we come up with this reason, it's as if we live in another country, not in the Republic of Turkey, but in Siberia. I came to study before I came here. I've looked at the dates of local elections in Turkey, local elections in the last 30 years, and I'd like to share with you the local election dates from 1977 to this direction. Local elections were held on March 13 in 1977. On March 25, 1984, 1989 local elections were held on 27 March, 1994 elections on 27 March, my dear friends, 1999 local elections were held on 18 April, 2004 elections were held on 28 March, 2009 elections were held on 29 March. What does that mean? Local elections have been held in Turkey for the past 25 years in March and April. I'd like to say that I don't agree with what the government has brought here, but as the Republican People's Party, as we've already explained, we are not opposed to this law. My dear friends, in fact, I would insist that Mr. Bekir Bozdağ be on the stand of the Constitutional Commission. Mr. Tanal just asked him a question. But Bekir Bozdağ didn't answer me at the Constitutional Commission. I asked questions, I went out, and he said, "I'll answer at the General Assembly." He didn't answer there either. Mr. Tanal also gave an interesting answer to his question. Now, my dear friends, look, when this bill came to the Constitutional Commission on the Presidential Election Code, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ made a speech on this Commission. I'd like to share this conversation with you. He said: "The President has been chosen according to the law before the amendment made in the Constitution." In the seven-year presidential election, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ said: "He has been chosen for seven years, he must be subject to the law." I explain his speech from here: reforms in the public law have consequences that affect the future, not the past. Given that he was elected for seven years, his term of office on the President is five years, he said it means that he should be officially dismissed before his term expires, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ said. And just behind him -- I'm reading the restraints -- he said: "In the elective tasks, there are high court rulings that it is necessary for legal security to be subject to the law that completes the election. " Now, my dear friends, one of the most fundamental arguments taught in law schools is the rule of law, which means that a person should be able to predict the legal consequences of his chosen office in his own internal world, so on what date should he be chosen? When we came to the Commission on the bill for the presidency, Bekir Bozdağ rightly found a legal argument in his own way, he said: Mr. Abdullah Gul was chosen for a seven-year period at the time of his election. But at this point, he put only the conditions of the weather in Turkey, the climate conditions. Now, today we did an evaluation of the CHP Group, Mr. Kesimoğlu is here. I also respected the legal assessment he made. The fact is, there can only be one legal basis for the AKP Group to bring this to our attention, which is the 78th Article of the Constitution. Look, the problem with the interim elections and the regulation restrictions on the three periods within the AKP Group will probably bring about the anxiety of 75 MPs who have been in a row for three semesters, and there is now a constitutional amendment due to the anxiety caused by it. So there are economic problems, there are other problems, but the point is, we're dealing with a very serious picture. Today, before I came here, I also looked at a cv of Mr. Bozdağ, which law school did he finish. He did a political evaluation on us, and I understand that, without going into that legal definition -- once again from here on the council bench. There is an event in public law and legal systems or political science: We can understand the early general election, but I have not been able to read a terminological definition that understands early local elections, unfortunately. So that's our lack of law. My dear friends, I think we'd be more specific about this if the AKP Group could tell us more clearly what its intentions are. I believe that lack of seasonal conditions is not correct in this regard. Look, I'm trying to explain why I'm expressing my concerns about Bekir Bozdağ. Prior to that, a draft law on the basic provisions of the elections and voter logs came to the Constitutional Commission. There, they reduced the two-year period in election crimes to six months, concerning the statute of limitations in Article 180 concerning the amendment of Law 298. And we said, "This is a partial pardon, there's a problem here, who are you saving with these six months?" No, we're not doing that, we have no intention of saving anyone like that. So we trusted the Deputy Prime Minister of the State, and he's right. I've brought the transcripts here, and he himself says: "No, we're not doing anything like that, we're not trying to save anyone. " I'm reading according to the reports here: Mr. President, if there's a need for a separate examination of this matter, it will be examined until the General Assembly stage. I'm just saying from here that if it's called no, if the groups don't want it, we'll say no. He said no. So we said, "Well, I guess the Deputy Prime Minister is telling the truth, since the state's Deputy Prime Minister is going to say no." And it goes on and on: "If our groups say no, we don't insist on this clause." Let me put it this way, because the truth is, it's not something that we've come up with in a political way. I had a conversation right here, believing in it right behind him. When he came to the General Assembly -- Mr. Nevzat also remembers -- I was spoken of in the General Assembly, my friends. They said all the party groups made a deal, signed under it. We've withdrawn the legal regulation on this two-year statute of limitations, partial pardons, probably the two-year period in this relevant clause in the 2011 election case. The AKP Group, Ayşe Nur Bahçkapılı and their friends, CHP Group, all of the other groups signed under it, and they're here. So we believed in them, and we said, "Allah, we have wronged ourselves, so we did not have to do what we said here, so they withdrew it. They withdrew it, and we went back to our homes. It's been a while, and we looked towards the end of July, and there's a bag of laws coming up. The bag was in the law, and the relevant substance was in the background, and I noticed that the bag had been attached to the law. We also looked at the bag law, which in the Law on Election 298, they reduced the period of two years to six months in the 180th article. I asked the Minister of Justice a question today, my dear friends. If he doesn't answer the question normally... it's normal, so he might as well avoid the question. I asked a detailed question as to who was taking advantage of this thing, which cases were being made about whom. I hope Mr. Secretary will brief us on this. I wonder who was saved, my dear friends. I'm following up on this, according to the Minister's response, we'll do it. Why did I make these evaluations? I believe there's an insincerity here. Look, we've made all the choices that the Republic of Turkey has made in the last 25 or 30 years in detail in what conditions and weather he's made. These elections have been held for twenty-five years in March, but you have an argument that when you confront law and politics, when you're in the squares, you're going to put something in what we're going to talk about, something we're going to tell the public about, you're running away from the election. So, despite all these legal outrages, despite all the murder of the law, even though this law has been violated, we don't say no, my dear friends, about this choice you've made. I just want to make a statement about the law, you know, you know, like they say, law can happen to anyone one day. When it comes to your job, it's the principle of trust in the presidency over seven years. The president was elected for seven years on the day he was elected. We can't get over it, in German teaching, we call it the ban on surprise teaching, the law of the time when he was chosen. We call it the law. At this point, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ makes an assessment as if he were an agricultural engineer, no, he is. I don't see that as a lawyer. I can make it look like a politician, but I can never make it look like a lawyer. When it suits you, let's move the elections forward. When it doesn't work out for you, let's move the elections to later. The evaluation here... our group presidents are listening. Please note the 78th article of the Constitution, and I hope that next year I will not repeat this speech and remind you of these transcripts. You'll bring the real election one of these days. In the inter-election reality, you're going to present this fact that you're going to see how else we can run for mayor of the capital city within the AKP Group by saving people from this political polemite, and we're going to see that together. If I'm wrong about this, I'm going to come and apologize to you on this stand, but if this gets out, I wonder what you guys are going to do as AKP Group, my dear friends. Therefore, even though we have expressed our concerns about local elections in the coming process, I once again say that despite these legal shortcomings, we do not oppose the necessity of the political situation, the necessity of the actual situation, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0177par0066	Thank you. Ali Özgündüz, İstanbul MP who asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0178par0069	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Dear friends, best of luck, local elections are being moved up. As an opposition party, we always want the chest. I hope the people in the election will learn their first lesson by seeing the error of your policy. Dear friends, I would like to hereby enlighten the grand jury of the matter. Recently, the Prime Minister has been unfairly critical of our party in both the extended group meeting speech and the handover of 146 Turkish Azerbaijan from Azerbaijan, who took refuge in our country during World War II during the convention. I was in Azerbaijan last week. I've been talking to friends from Azerbaijan, friends from Congress. In their own original dialect, they say, "Ya, garda, why is this chief overseer of yours suddenly scratching these scab-linking wounds that happened 70, 80 years ago?" Why is a nation between the two communities bringing conflict between Turkey and Azerbaijan, the two states? This is not for the benefit of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijan) or Turkey. They said. And I said I'll deliver it, I'll carry out that responsibility. Dear friends, I feel that many of our friends in history have no knowledge of the incident of the Boraltan case. So, in this regard, I'd like to give you information as an Azerbaijan MP who passed away from Azerbaijan and came to this land. Dear friends, some Azerbaijan citizens who were said to have collaborated with the Germans during World War II are defecting to Turkey. As part of an agreement between Turkey and the Soviet Union earlier, and in the process, you know, relations are tense because Stalin claimed the rights to the straits, wanted Kars, Ardahan, Ardahan. As an excuse for war against Turkey, Turkey wants to return citizens of Azerbaijan who defected to Turkey. What you call the then state, the Republican People's Party, then the ranks of the Democratic Party, which you pride yourself on being the sequel, then are in this government. The government of the Republic of Turkey at the time, the Republic of Turkey, has made that decision. Thus, blaming our Party on this is an unfair, unfair approach. Another thing I want to remind you is that Mehmet Emin Erzade, founder of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan, which was founded in 1918 and ended by the Soviets in 1920, and all the other staffs took refuge in Turkey and lived in Turkey until 1952 and died here, and is now in Ankara. Russia has not returned tens of thousands of people to the state of the Republic of Turkey, although the USSR has insisted on it, so if you're 146 people, tens of thousands of people, if the Republican People's Party is the one who returned it, if you're blaming our Party, not the Republic of Turkey, then you need to appreciate it in the other way. Why does the Prime Minister say that? Sir, we welcome those who seek refuge in our country. Here is the connection of the immigrants from Syria. Dear friends, you know that Rabia Kadir, president of the World Uygur Congress. This one lives in America, travels all over Europe, an activist, a human rights activist. Let alone settle in Turkey, your government doesn't even give you visas. Therefore, be careful when making an accusation. And I'll tell you something else about that, special, which I don't really want to say, because the two countries would be a damaging trial for their relationship. I won't say it if you want, but I'll say it in private if I'm asked. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a very difficult subject. I hope the Prime Minister won't talk about it anymore. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0179par0084	Thank you. Ismet Su is the MP who asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0180par0087	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in Article 1 of Law Proposal 328 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. As in all of the elections that have been held so far, as we are most likely to win and be a member of the election in 2009, our thoughts are positive from the fact that the 2014 local elections have been pushed forward for about five months and, in fact, from the fact that we are happy to be part of the election. At this point, as there are all obstacles to removing the voter's will to be reflected in the chest, we are optimistic about the work and the offer to remove this obstacle, which is considered to be a major obstacle in winter. Just as we show the ease necessary for our citizens who are disabled from voters in all elections, if we can't eliminate natural winter conditions in another sense, if we can't eliminate natural winter conditions despite technology, I think it's appropriate that this be taken into a proper season. Therefore, I express my views in favour of the Constitutional amendment, which is a positive proposal to reflect the voter's will on the chest, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0179par0090	Thank you. Now, there will be a ten-minute question-answer procedure on the matter. Mr. Fırat, Mr. Aslanoglu, Mr. Tanal and Mr. Yilmaz have entered the system. Mr. Firat, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0181par0094	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, while I've already captured our Minister of Forestry and Waterworks, I'm going to ask him about Adıyaman's watering problems. How are we doing on Baby 1 and 2 watering pump stations in particular? Again, how are the studies on the Kokali and Pineland dams? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0182par0098	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0183par0100	Mr. Secretary, for five years my village has been in a county, a 5km district. You've got it connected to a 35km county. You didn't get my free will; my life, my culture was with that county. To get to that district, I'm going 35 kilometers to my current district; I'm going 70 kilometers to go to the courthouse and I'm going 100 kilometers to the military branch. All the villagers around Çakca are rioting: they say that our culture, our tradition, our essence, is Çakca. If you respect the will of the people, will you give them an opinion on how to reconnect with the Forkca? I'll go to the commission.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0182par0101	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0184par0103	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are Beykoz, Tuzla, Pendik, Umraniye, Maltepe, Kartal... There are no cleaners, no security guards, no night guards in our districts -- the first four years of training, the second four years of education -- in our schools. In this sense, our schools really are victims of our students, our parents, but the money collected in the PTA is being cleaned out of schools. When will this sacrifice of our people be removed? Second: Is the choice of this constitutional amendment called interim selection -- while our constitutional law teacher is here? Is that an early election? If it's not an inter-election or early elections, what's the name of this election in the Constitutional literature? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0185par0106	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0186par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask Mr. Minister: We've said several times in parliament that there are trillions of rants and corruption in the landsfill fields in Istanbul, and although Mr. Minister did not accept it, as of two months ago, the investigation by the İstanbul Public Prosecutor's Office has led to the arrest and the investigation is under way. In this case, in the interest of the investigation, do you intend to dismiss the Istanbul Metropolitan Mayor temporarily? As is the case in Adana. My second question is: In 2004, the city forest was given as a fairground in Adana. After seven years, under the Minister's orders, the inspectors have been inspecting it for two years and are now unofficially under the inspector's coercion report. From here, the governor of Adana has the right to rest. To get peace from this CUFAS, from an illegal place...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0187par0111	Thank you. Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0188par0113	Mr. Secretary, I'd like to first talk about a generalization of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which you've published in the past few months, and I'd like to know how you view it. The powers of the mayors elected by the public's vote in 2009 were taken from them by a general statement issued by the Ministry of Interior. You mean national will. Isn't that a coup d'etat to the national will? What kind of democracy is it to pass on the powers of elected men -- taking three years -- to the governors, to the governors? That's what I want to ask you. Also, I'd like to ask you something: you've made a statement recently, saying that 50 ponds of 70 ponds have run out so far in Afyonkarahisar. There is enough water for 700,000 people of six years. You said. We built the facility that would end in two years. We think big. You said, "Is Turkey ready, Afyonkarahisar ready?" What do you think of Malatya? There are five ponds in Malatya. Don't you think you're being unfair to Malatya?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0189par0116	Thank you. Mr. Oğan...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0190par0118	Mr. President, I had just asked you a question about Iğdır, but the Minister didn't answer. Will he answer you in writing? At least give me an answer. I told you, and you didn't answer. I repeat, we're talking about local government reform, but Igdir is now zoning. What local governments will you reform in a city without development, a zoning city that has been canceled by the State? Please let a servant of God answer this. Since the mayor of Iğdır of BDP was unable to take the necessary measures in his time, the construction of Iğdır ▪ has been cancelled, and the construction of a city at this time does not exist. Please answer this or I'll ask you again and again, just so you know.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0189par0120	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0122	Mr. President, I've already answered the question of our esteemed Adıyaman MP, but let me repeat. Especially in Adıyaman, work continues on pump water and Kokali. The planning work is over, we've started project work, and when the projects are completed, we'll tender it. Indeed, projects such as Kokali, Burial are very important in Adıyaman, and I know that I am following closely. As a matter of fact, you know, I am an honorary citizen of Adıyaman, so we brought water to Adıyaman, and we continue quickly to work on Adıyaman. Now, of course, Mr. Aslanoglu spoke of a number of difficulties caused by some villages in Istanbul, although they were very close to Çaktrak. Of course, we'll have the Ministry of Internal Affairs review the matter, and we'll answer in writing. To tell you the truth, whatever troubles there are, I'll be his follower. Mr. Mahmut Tanal told me about the cleaning at the schools. In fact, there, our Minister of Labour and Social Security is actually very supportive of the schools. It can be employed within the framework of working for the community, and we'll follow them. Hopefully, we'll have to reinforce the cleaning needs. Of course, this choice is a normal choice, so it's called a normal local management choice; there's no hesitation in it, there's no middle choice. Mr. Seyfettin Yilmaz, I've explained this land dump over and over again. I've made a statement before, even here, in the House. In Istanbul and other cities -- whether it's in İzmir, in municipalities -- our Parliament has made a decision here, and the decision is, of course, you know, the transfer and management of the waste dump has been made by law to major city municipalities in major cities, as well as other municipalities. So, we're now allocated to major city municipalities -- whether it's in İzmir, Istanbul, or in Istanbul -- places to set up land dump sites, solid waste disposal facilities. We even made a new allocation to Antalya. However, we have calculated that I have looked at the money collected in the past 15 years, which is much more than the amount of money the city municipalities are currently paying in Istanbul. I gave it to you in numbers. I'd like to stress that in particular. Of course, when you were District Manager in 2004, unfortunately, a fairground was assigned illegally.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0192par0128	It's not irregular. The Minister of the Forest and the Director-General of the Forest have the approval of the MP right now. Mr. President, since he says it's irregular, I want an answer.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0130	Of course, there were complaints about that, and the inspectors are making the necessary inquiries. I'd like to mention that in particular. I'd also like to point out, sir, that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is very accurate.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0192par0132	Mr. President is insulting me, I have to explain.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0133	I mean, because some municipalities...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0193par0134	Mr. Yilmaz, when he's done talking, you have the right to ask for a word for bullying.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0135	...unfortunately, when he knew it was going to close, he now has some property of his own...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0194par0136	He's been elected for five years, Mr. Secretary, for five years.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0137	... toss real estate or real estate. Thus, the rights of this nation were signed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in order not to sell them on the initiative of a mayor, so that they could be controlled by the public. Of course, my dear brothers, look, we've made huge investments for Malatya.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0194par0139	You've built five ponds, 70 ponds to Afyon.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0140	Look, right now in Malatya, our Prime Minister's two dams, Kapatkaya and other...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0194par0141	Minister, there's no watering.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0142	Boztepe and also the irrigation systems...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0194par0143	There's a dam, no irrigation.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0191par0144	Right now the irrigation facilities are being auctioned off, construction is under way. So in Malatiah, you know, Derme, we've completed the watering of Circetics. Hopefully, there'll be watering of the Gate Dam.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0194par0145	There's Boztepe, Boztepe is complete. We promise you that. So, what did you do with the pond, sir?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0195par0148	Iğdır MP Sinan Bey, now, sir, as you know, 1/100. Completing plans for a 2,000-lead environmental scheme...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0196par0150	Mr. President, when it comes to us, the microphone closes, so what is it?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0197par0151	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0195par0152	I hope you know about this... we give you all the support we can. Remember, we're taking over the famous dam. You asked me that last time. You asked about the airport; I came to the airport opening. It was opened by our Prime Minister. Hopefully we'll settle this for Igdir.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0197par0154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0198par0156	I'd like to make a statement, Mr. President. He gave it to me unconscionably. He made a claim. I mean, it's a tease. I need an explanation for this.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0197par0157	Here you go. Two minutes, I promise, without further ado.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0198par0161	Mr. President, valued lawmakers are now the operations of the city forests during the rule of the Justice and Development Party and its era. In 2004, when the Justice and Development Party was in power, and under instructions from the Minister of the Forest, Adana Governor Cahit Kıraç was meeting with the Minister of the Forest, Osman Pepe Minister of the Forest. Look, be very careful around here. In the urban forests, Mr. Secretary knows very well that the business manager offers the office, the district manager writes with the right opinion and approval office is the Director General of the Forest. You know very well, Mr. Secretary. You mean yourself when you say "unconcerned" to him. Look, the approval office isn't the regional director of the forest, so I'm in charge of the forest district. Either you don't know your laws or you don't know where they're going. Look, if you want this to be explained, right now, the Justice and Development Party MP Osman Coffeeci knows all about the process. Lawmakers of Adana, you must defend this. The Adana fairground is the most serious investment in Adana in the last decade, with 1.5 million people coming in a year, but there's a lynching going on just by myself, even though I don't have a signature. Look, the approval office is the Director General of Forestry, the Executive Office, the Department of Forest District, the interstate, and now they've made it illegal, and I'm asking now: how does the Governor of Adana get peace from there if it's not legal? How do the bureaucrats there get peace from that CUFAS? Mr. Secretary, if it's illegal, you've been putting inspectors there for two years. The previous two inspectors said there were no criminal elements. But did you or did you not, Mr. Secretary? The inspector who was investigating Seyfettin Yilmaz was able to make over 100 dignitaries, but last week they made him chairman of the Board of Inspection, and it's not legal, and the terms don't hold up. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So with this urge for revenge, this wrong attitude, you're not getting anywhere. Here, we want answers, Mr. Secretary. Here, answer these.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0199par0173	There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed as may, which is included in the first joke of the interim Article 20, which has been added to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey of Turkey, dated 7.11, 1982, and has been added to the 2709 issue. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0200par0177	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0199par0178	Does the government agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0201par0179	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0199par0180	Idris Baluken, Bingol MP, demanding a statement on the motion.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0202par0181	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the motion that we've made on the change of the first joke of the temporary Article 20. I salute your committee. Now, when we look at this selection calendar, we see a particularly clear concern about the March month. Look, 6 local elections made from 1984 to 2009 were made in the last week of March, one of which was made only in the first week of April 99. So the six local elections in the same season's terms, the negativity that was expressed was not a problem, but I would like to point out that in this year's year, when all the conditions of communication of the 21st century are at stake, we have no faith in the cause presented over such negativity. Now, there are a few things that need to be made clear about the process of this constitutional amendment. Look, you're making a change in 75 million. You're making a decision about an election process that has a close impact on your future all over the country. When you run this study, you don't even get an opinion from a political party that's won nearly 3 million votes for this change. Now, your responsibility here is that if a family company had a responsibility, we would have accepted it, and we're not too interested in meeting you like this. But you have to consider the people's will for a process involving 75 million. You may not agree with our political views, the way we perceive the world, the way we practice politics, but in the case of an entire country, you have to accept us as a liability because you have made promises to the public in this way. Look, when we looked at the motive, there was a reason for the propaganda and effective participation. Now, you're tired of listening, but we'll never get tired of saying it. Look, because he's propaganda, because they're working at the Peace and Democracy Party propaganda event, he's currently in prison for six MPs, 36 mayors, hundreds of city council members and nearly 8,000 of our friends. In just two years, you've detained nearly 100,000 people, so imagine, a city, you've been dealing with detention processes, unfortunately, because a population close to 100,000 people has participated in BDP's propaganda work. We offered you road-cleaning before the Constitutional Compromise Commission sat down so that this propaganda path could be opened, and you actually have made promises. The changes in the relevant elements of the TCK, the removal of the Anti-Terror Law, were, in fact, suggestions that would pave the way for effective participation in this propaganda and politics, but unfortunately, you didn't listen to any of them. You've never touched four MPs or five MPs in many places in the region, where you'll select two MPs, because you've chosen election dams for political parties, treasury benefits, because they're in your favor. You didn't do a lot of soul-searching for millions of dollars from Treasury Aid, unfortunately, when you were pouring into your safe, not a penny from a political party that represents the will of this people. In fact, we're surprised that we're now following the AKP, and we're starting to wonder what to believe, what to trust, what to map the road. Look, these words of democracy are constantly spoken, but in practice, there's the painting I'm talking about. Let us look at messages from the AKP's top officials in the past week alone and the prime minister's group speech today. Mr. Bulent Arinc here, Mr. Beşir Atalay, has thrown out all of what Mr. Minister of Justice has said about defence, basic language education, the public use of Kurdish, the expansion of authority in local governments, in exactly the way that the Prime Minister said at the group meeting today. Thus, we no longer have an opinion at the point of how much we rely on democracy's rhetoric or an arrangement you will make, and in what circumstances it should be supported and powered. In fact, we find it particularly dangerous to schedule what the Prime Minister has recently done on the presidential election. I will only finish my words by saying: The crown of peace is more precious and more beautiful than any crown of dominion. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0203par0190	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Talks on Article 1 have been completed. Now, we begin the secret vote of matter in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] The MPs will replace Deputy Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan with Minister of Education Ömer Dinçer, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz, Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağır Çağlan, Minister of the European Union Effendi, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister of Environment and Urbanism Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erd Erdogan Baytar, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç, Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications Büzli Yıldırım. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any members who don't use the game? Congressmans, the voting process is complete. Let's raise the cups. [[The selection of votes has been started.]] We begin negotiations on the 2nd Amendment on the alliance of groups. MADDE 2- This goes into effect in the history of the publication of the Law and is voted on if it is presented to the public. Hasip Kaplan has asked for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on Article 2...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0204par0205	No.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0203par0206	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Attila Kart...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0205par0207	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the 2nd amendment proposal. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0203par0208	Congressmans, please take your seats. Here you go, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0205par0210	Dear lawmakers, we are facing a constitutional amendment proposal based on road safety and seasonal conditions. I don't see the need to evaluate the seasonal conditions here, but I'm just going to say that the reason for road safety is that it's actually a confession of failure in the name of power, that it's an admission of failure. Beyond that, I don't see the need to go into the debate of these reasons, to assess whether they're right or not. As these changes are being made, we consider it important to consider whether or not legal and constitutional violations have been made. Look, precious MPs, it's the voter's will that's the main thing in democracies. A voter's will should not be undermined. This arrangement clearly violates the third joke of Article 127 of the Constitution, with Article 8 and 29 of the laws of local administrations. In addition, the principles of Constitutional Court 14/06/1988, 1988/14-18 are all being taken under way. There are obvious violations of the law. I'd like to make the following assessments, after we've briefed them only to report them to the records and report them to the transcripts, in a session where the constitutional amendment is being discussed, at what stage, I'd like to share them with the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, for ten years, I've been acting as a member of parliament, and for the last year, we've been doing a duty for you, with your gratitude, in the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Here, I see this painting in Turkey: We see that the environment of hatred and dissolution is increasing. We see this hatred and dissolution speech and its environment happening in every field. In both ethnically and in terms of belief, we see this regional dissolution environment, emotion, and hate speech rise. Between the vocational rooms -- without expressing too many trade groups -- without pointing out one to one, to stress -- we see difficulties in the relationship between the Istanbul vocational room and the Diyarbakır vocational room, we see conditions of conflict between the İzmir vocational room and Hakkari vocational room, we see an environment of insecurity. We're dealing with a reality like this in Turkey. At a time like this, we have to catch the common denominator in an environment where such hatred and dissolution is growing and our social peace is damaged. As Turkey, we are all responsible for catching a common denominator. We'll all catch this common denominator together. At this point, I would like to state that the Constitutional Compromise Commission, in fact, has a historical mission in this sense. So, do political party groups and leaders show the necessary attention, or do they show the necessary responsibility for this mission of the Constitutional Compromise Commission? Look, I want to make it very clear that we've had direct talks, of course, leaders, political leaders, all of whom have expressed their so-called support. At this point, unfortunately, other than Mr. Prime Minister, other than Mr. Prime Minister, leaders outside the Prime Minister have also shown their support, but unfortunately the Prime Minister has shown again that he is not consistent at this point, that he is not politically sincere, that he is not honest. In various stages, it was in approaches that meant intervention, which meant pushing against the work of the Compromise Commission, Mr. Prime Minister. The last statement he made in the past week was in no way admissible, permissible statement. What the Prime Minister says is, sir, if you finish these studies by December 31, finish them, if you don't finish them, I'll do it. Look, Mr. Prime Minister's statement is a disrespect to the decision made by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, by the General Assembly, by your unanimous decision, to say the least, to say the least. Mr. Prime Minister, although the General Assembly is in the middle of a unanimous protest, is standing on top of the General Assembly, as if it were an act of law and order. It says, "Come on, if you finish your work by 31 December, finish it, or I'll do what I want." This is unacceptable in no way. Here in fact, Mr. Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has confirmed our concerns, concerns, and concerns that we have expressed in the establishment of this Compromise Commission. I mean, Mr. Prime Minister, in that sense, he didn't actually mislead us. Mr. Prime Minister, the Constitutional Compromise Commission has once again confirmed that it is not sincere in its work, that it is dishonest, that it wants to use this process politically and conjuncturally. Look, my dear friends, why do we care about the work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission? For what we care about is that despite the Prime Minister's understanding, we will continue our work as Republican People's Party despite this interventionist, enforcer understanding. I'd like to say that one more time. Why do we care about the work of the Constitutional Compromise Commission? Because we haven't found a negotiating environment in this Parliament during the Justice and Development Party rulings, we've been going through a process that goes through ten years of coercion, an understanding of intervention, a midnight motions, a bag of law enforcement and one finger democracy, but for the first time, we've found an environment based on real equal representation in the Compromise Commission. Because of that environment, the social dialogue expected from the Constitutional Compromise Commission has reached a serious distance at the point of reaching a compromise. But at this point, unfortunately, we're also dealing with the Turkish Prime Minister's approach to sabotaging this settlement, sabotaging this dialogue, effectively ending the work of the Compromise Commission. What do we have here? It turns out that unfortunately -- and I'm really sorry to say this -- this is our dilemma right now -- that democracy and social peace in the Republic of Turkey are crippleing Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan's idea of a crippled democracy, unfortunately. We're living it, we're seeing it, we're observing it. At this point, I'd like to invite all of you to make a statement in that sense. You must see, my dear friends, that there is no democracy on leave, no democracy on appeal. Democracy happens with equal understanding. Democracy is a compromise. Democracy doesn't apply. Democracy doesn't happen with an interventionist understanding. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I hope you'll reconsider this on this occasion. With these evaluations, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0206par0221	Thank you, Mr. Card.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0207par0222	Mr. President, while the speaker was just speaking on the stand, he accused our Prime Minister, our President, that he had a poor sense of democracy, if you don't mind...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0206par0223	Mr. Elitaş, I'm gonna give you two minutes without any more bullying due to the bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0207par0228	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. The Constitutional Compromise Commission is one of the most important settlement commissions made by the 24th-century Parliament. Those who closely follow politics will know that before they go to the 2007 elections, the Justice and Development Party has come before the public to change the Constitution of September 12th coup, and has made a commitment to an election with such a claim. As a matter of fact, the study on the constitutional amendment we made after the 2007 elections was cut off with a huge commitment before it was made clear, before it was presented to public information, it was said: "You can't make the constitution change unless the founder is in power." What's the founding power? There was a mentality that said, "You can make a constitution, but there was a significant development in the 24th-century Parliament." All political parties agreed on a constitutional amendment -- under pressure from citizens in the 2011 elections. As a matter of fact, within the framework of its own calendar, the Constitutional Compromise Commission has launched the process of finishing writing until 31/12/2012 and presenting it to public knowledge. In the group's talks, Mr. Prime Minister expressed his intentions for the Constitutional Court in other places, and said this to encourage them in accordance with the decision made by the Compromise Commission itself. But I regret to say that because a friend of ours, a member of the Constitutional Compromise Commission, must have been under constant pressure because his life was under constant pressure, a statement expressed by the Prime Minister in good faith is being pressed against them by the Constitutional Compromise Commission. This is all wrong. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey strives to implement democracy in a universal way, in terms of its rules. Undemocratic behavior in the past... is being endeavored to crown democracy during the AK PARTY ruling period. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0208par0234	Thank you, Mr. Elitaş. [[Continue]] Members of parliament, as a result of a secret vote on the First Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey: Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak MP who now wants to speak for the Peace and Democracy Party Group on the 2nd article.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0209par0248	Mr. President, you have to look at the electoral system to see if there's democracy in a country, what kind of system and how free the will of the nation is reflected in the chest. These measurements are the measurements of democracy. If each government, based on its majority in parliament, designes the next election term for its own interests, and this design is done on the law of September 12 coup, election law, political parties law, voter logs law, the majority of democracy, participation, partnership, the country's safe elections, and the conditions for it to conduct its judicial control. Unfortunately, Turkey has had an election record since 12 September. The election record was originally started in 1987 during ANAP, where I could get the majority of Parliament by a few votes. Look, I'll tell you from the 87-year-old transcripts, there are 30 percent in the polls at the time, and it says, "Yes, Mr. Ozal, the number of changes he's made in these matters, the number of changes he's wanted to make so far, five in political parties, four in the Election Code, today, this record has been broken by the AK PARTI. However, one difference is that in an effort to push forward the election calendar with this recent constitutional amendment, a political wingman has been opened in our parliament. The members of the group from the EC PARTY agree with the members of the group, the members of the group from the MPHP (MHP); the number for the constitution is 367; the number is 367; there is no need for the main opposition, and the BDP is not a party, says a group of vice presidents. If we've delivered the will of 3 million voters, if we've represented them, we'll go in the chest and face those people again. And if We stand before them with justice, they will give us a reward for it, and our number will increase. No, if we've done wrong, if we can't really represent them, he'll already punish them, as he has punished many ruling parties in the past. Now, we're going to be in this Parliament representing the will of the nation, and a friend of ours is going to say, "It's not a party, it's not a party, it's not a meeting." The main opposition is not the main opposition, but I will not meet with him. That's enough, we've prepared the proposal, we've brought it to Parliament. Friends, political morality, political principles, these are not the principles of democracy. That's not how we saw it. Now can you tell me something? Didn't we get that election law out of here in 2009? Can you tell me if you're going to make it to this election, you're going to make it to this election, you're going to make it to this election, you're going to make it to this election, you're going to make it to this election? Can this be ethical, moral? Did these two parties account for this when they brought in this proposal? How's he gonna vote -- out-of-country voter logs -- five million voters? You know, the logs, can you take them out for me? Mr. Secretary, the Deputy Prime Minister lives here. Can you get these voter logs out for me, these will vote for them, and they'll put up these foreign voter logs...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0210par0252	There aren't any offshore voter logs in the local administration.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0209par0253	We took it out in 2009. Look, we have to set the terms of a decent election here. You won't be able to explain it, answer it. This motion... Timing doesn't matter, the opposition has to be ready for the election. In 2009, when we entered the elections, we were 50 municipalities, we made 100. When we don't make 100 to 200 in these elections, we don't make policy here. That's it, that's politics. But in the 2009 elections, all of my district, district organizations, election staff were detained, arrested, and elected mayors were elected on the first day they were taken into custody by the Ministry of Interior's written order before they even went to the prosecutor's office, before the prosecution opened the case. May it be lawful for you to swallow such democracy. I mean, what can I tell you? Now, if you claim that the four parties here were not chosen by the will of the nation, may it be lawful to you again. Keep reading what you know. ▪ Local management is the basis of democracy. If you develop democracy in local governments, the general democracy will develop over it. Now, you're bringing in 29 major city municipalities. I'm surprised at the MHP. I ask myself, "Why did God lead me this way?" They come with a structured system designed to lose at least three parts of 29 major cities. In exchange for that, we'll get at least two city halls in this system. Now, I see, Mr. Honey spoke on this stand, I have a report, 2009. He's critical of the election system and you know what he says, Mr. Bal? He enters the presidential system from that day-to-half, saying that if you continue with this idea of election, you tend to become a dictator. They lose both in this regard and in the loss of Balıkesir. They also lose in Manisa. Come on, I get it, with the MHP, the AKP, the nationalist, conservative, racist, or so we call it, it might come together in understanding...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0211par0258	Look at you!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0212par0259	You'll take care of your own racism!
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0209par0260	I don't understand CHP, I don't understand the main opposition. They will not take the main opposition for a man, they will ignore the main opposition, and the future will knock on your door, and you will say, "Here you go." I'd point out the door, and if he had such a sense of democracy, I'd say, "Here you go, and that understanding is wrong." Now we want to make it very clear to you that in politics, we need a very serious political language, an instrument. If the Deputy Director of the Group ignores a party here, calls the Council when it's stuck at another time, or even talks when it's stuck, or even does not have the obligation of the four parties according to the Internal Charter 19, then he should expect it from the next approach. I mean, what we're saying is, eat some more picola nuts so you don't get it wrong, that's what I'm saying. Look, it's a political tool. If you don't use the language well, you'll be overwhelmed. The color of the artist and the sound of the musician, of course we'll use the language of democracy when we use the instrument of politics. How do we get to the people's will, the best? How do we represent the best in local governments? There's an 18-year-old election law coming in, 29 city municipal laws coming in, and on the other hand, we want to make the constitution. It's a lumpy, patchy selection system. The Law on Elections, Political Parties of the Kenan Universe, September 12th, hangs around the neck of this Assembly, and with this black spot, we are going to the election. Where's the free will, where's the will of the nation, where's the will of the citizen to reach the chest? And I'm asking you again, how is the voter abroad going to vote, come out and tell me about it? Tell it to people, you can't tell it, you can't tell it because it doesn't exist. Now God is virtual to you... [[The microphone was turned off by the device]] And I'm saying that you need to see what tricks in the virtual space will bring to this country, what the scraps will bring to this country. Of course, the election system is a problem for all of us.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0213par0266	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0209par0267	We should all talk about this. We don't run from the election. We're the only party that's going to say, "Come on, let's see if we can get together." I say it's that simple, I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0213par0270	The Conqueror Coupler, Van MP, who has asked for a personal word on the matter.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0214par0272	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself on the 2nd Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, Article 328 of the Law Proposal. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the elections of local governments are held every five years under Article 8 of the Law on the Elections of Mahalile Administrations 127 and 2972 of the Constitution. The latest selection of municipalities was held on 29 March 2009. Thus, when the legal deadlines continue, they will be held in March 2014. In Turkey, it is the common opinion and right of all parties that elections and political propaganda can be made healthy. As a citizen has the right to vote on his own free will, it is only natural for politicians to have the basis for describing party programmes and their own contributions. The lack of this stage is also the cause of an unhealthy election in the country. During the election of local governments, winter season is very heavy and difficult in some areas due to the geographical position of our country. Therefore, political parties are difficult to carry out election studies and propaganda activities. In addition, our citizens are having great difficulty participating in elections, receiving information and contributing due to seasonal conditions. With local elections, local residents select executives to manage them for five years. In the process, the season's conditions will help him to get healthy information and make the right decision. Local elections are also an important process for the healthy development and strengthening of our democracy. One of the main elements of democracies is that the awareness of citizens is one of the key tools to gain sufficient information about local rulers and actively participate in the elections. For all such reasons, the election of a temporary clause added to our Constitution will be held on October 27, 2013, in March 2014. In this way, our people will be able to vote peacefully and not in the harsh winter conditions, but in the more appropriate month of October. This season will be a season when our politicians will have a more comfortable policy, where they can reach their constituents, where the risk of transportation from winter conditions is minimal. Because of our citizens' better knowledge, their easy access to knowledge, and their effectiveness, the nation's will will is more accurately reflected in the chest. Dear lawmakers, there have been a lot of negatives in the past because of seasonal conditions, which I hope will never happen again. For all these reasons, it would be much more useful to move up local elections. In the past years, local elections have been asked to be brought forward due to seasonal negativity. For this reason, law studies have been adopted, but the public vote has not resulted in positive results. The next process has been carried out in these harsh seasons. I'm sure a new chapter will be opened with the decision of our great House, which will bring good results for our society's democracy. The reason for the move-up of elections is not in the interest of any political interests, but in order for national will to be reflected in the chest. For a transparent, understandable reflection of national will into the chest, propaganda, active participation and accurate information have a significant share. The Mahalli administration elections must not be forgotten that many elections are being held, choosing neighborhood and village mayors, municipal council members and mayors. Therefore, it is vital that the voter be reached and able to express himself and that the voter also makes a healthy decision. In this context, I respectfully salute your grand delegation, assuming that the withdrawal of the elections from March 2014 to October 2013 would eliminate all these challenges and contribute to our country's democracy.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0215par0278	Thank you. The question-answer will be carried out on the matter for ten minutes. Mr. Tanal and Mr. Wolf have entered the system. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0216par0282	Thank you, Mr. President. From the problems of Cezeri Professional High School in the district of Tuzla, İstanbul Province, the classes are 45 people. When are the 45-person classes really going to be brought down by the number? In addition, there is no machine work in vocational high school, there is no welding department in vocational high school, there is no woodwork department. In this respect, because Tuzla is a population of 200,000 people, at the same time, our Tuzla County is an industrial-sized district, and in this respect, these sections are needed for the development of quality, qualified employees, when will they be repaired? In addition, our schools do not distribute milk within the framework of the FATHIH Project. When will this be distributed? At the Hilmi Sonay Elementary School in Tuzla County, the classrooms are 60 people. When will these go down to normal standards? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0217par0287	Thank you. Mr. Wolf...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0218par0289	Thank you. Minister, we're changing the Constitution and democracy is the main reason. While the people who are expressing the demands of democracy are being clubbed, they're being injected with pepper spray, you're constantly trying to achieve events in these laws that will be developed in favour of the AKP. But how are you going to get justice in representation without changing the way the city council was elected in the City Code, and how are you going to sit local democracy? I'm really curious. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0219par0292	Thank you. Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0220par0294	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, there have been ongoing investigations and operations being launched into HHP municipalities recently. Do you find it ethical in this process of elections to be done in the name of discreditation, disparagement? Do you consider the government's behavior democratic? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0221par0297	Thank you. Mr. Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0222par0299	Madam Secretary, three of our MPs were pepper sprayed today. Don't you ever mind your conscience? Have you asked my friends what this is? You've got pepper spray in your eyes... and our friends have gone to the hospital. Is your conscience clear? I'm ashamed to inform you that I'm ashamed to have a congressman sprayed with pepper spray. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0221par0301	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0223par0303	First of all, I'd like to clarify one thing before I answer any questions. The third clause of Article 94/A of the Law on the Basic Decisions of Elections and Votes of Votes of Voters of Elections and Votes of Non-Semitic Voters, Parliamentary Elections, Presidents' Elections and People's Votes. (The vote of our citizens living abroad is only related to these three elections, and there is no voting of our citizens abroad in the election of local governments. First of all, I wanted to underline this so it wouldn't cause a misunderstanding. It is not within the legal framework of the parliamentary general election, the presidential election and the possibility of voting in the local administration elections, which can vote in the public vote alone. Therefore, there is no problem with the choice of local governments here, and I would like to express it in particular. The question of Mr. Tanal is, of course, about the Ministry of National Education. It would be more useful to answer in writing if they thought it was appropriate. Because right now, not only are my friends giving me information, but I can't give you the right information about this right now. Let's answer this in writing, and we'll share the right information with you. Mr. Kurt had an assessment that began with the demands of democracy. Of course, I see him as an evaluation rather than a question. This arrangement is aimed at ensuring that voters' local executives will follow, monitor, follow, propaganda mayors, municipal councils, city councils, all of which can do their more comfortable propaganda, reach their voters, and reflect the voters' will in a more accurate, more comfortable way. There's no point in looking for an account behind this -- I've said so -- because today, when you look at municipalities, about 56 percent of the municipalities -- I've given you the number of the sea -- are AK PARTY municipalities. And when you put in a number of DP municipalities, it's actually going to be even higher, so the two parties have come together, they have so many municipalities, they're going to the elections. They say, "Let's move up the election." So they're ready to give up all the municipalities right away five and a half months ago. If the CHP is ready to take them, then they'll be working in the field, our citizens in the polls, and they can change municipalities, give them to other parties. If we'd been in an account at this point, we wouldn't have gone to an election campaign with so many municipalities on our hands. We don't have that account. We've always been honored to appear before the people, to answer to our people. In that sense, let's go to an early account, give him an early account, and let the citizen see who's paying for it himself. There are antidemocratic provisions within the laws of other election laws, political parties. We know they have coup laws. It is also a duty for Parliament to redefine those laws from top to bottom. We believe that it will be rebuilt in time, and we have a commitment to the public on this matter -- look -- that we will renew these laws again, along with Parliament in the next process. The law on a new election law, the basic provisions of a new election and voter logs... we need to change other laws. At this point, we reiterated our commitment to the public in the last congress. This study will be carried out in the next phase. Mr. Bulut's question about municipalities. Of course, I made a statement during negotiations on all of the municipalities. Of course, when there are any reports, complaints, complaints, whether they are true or not, how right, how unfair, how wrong, how ill-advised they must be, whether they are involved with the CHP or with the BDP or with the independent mayors. If he sends the paperwork that he doesn't have to do any research, then there's a bigger mistake. Maybe there's a mistake, there's an injustice, there's a corruption, there's an illegality, there might be a cover-up. No one has the right. Such a complaint, of course, is used and used in the framework of the laws of this nature when it comes to complaint. At this point, there's no election-oriented study at this point. The numbers I gave you are very clear. There are investigations and investigations of hundreds of mayors from both municipalities of the EC PARTY and CHP and BDP. The most studied mayors are the mayors of the EC PARTY. If we were involved in such an account, we would not allow such a study to be permitted to the mayors of the EC PARTY. Also, when you look at the ones we've given permission to investigate, it's where you're allowed to investigate most of the mayors of the EC PARTY. Currently, there are mayors from every party and mayors from the EC PARTY. It's important not to view any of this as a process of election-responsibility, because it's not just today's numbers, it's the numbers that have come up in the process since 2009. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And then, of course, when something happens, you have to investigate it, you have to examine it. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0224par0312	Mr. Secretary, thank you.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0225par0313	Mr. Secretary, you didn't say anything about pepper spray.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0223par0314	Wrong... if I had enough time, I would have answered.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0224par0315	There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the Grand National Assembly Law Proposal No. 328 is currently in session. I request that the clause be changed as follows. Article 2- This goes into effect in the history of law publishing and in the event it is presented to the public, in 90 days from its publication, it will be called into public opinion. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0226par0322	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0224par0323	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0227par0324	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0224par0325	Mr. Young...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0228par0326	Motive...
tbmm-2012-10-09sit04spe0224par0327	I'm reading the reason: The referendum is scheduled to be held within 90 days of the release of the law. I submit the motion to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Negotiations on Article 2 have been completed. Now, we begin the secret vote of matter in Adana Province. [[Votings are being started.]] The MPs will replace Deputy Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan with Minister of Education Ömer Dinçer, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay, Minister of Development Cevdet Yilmaz, Economy Minister Mehmet Zafer Çağır Çağlan, Minister of the European Union Effendi, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, Deputy Prime Minister of Environment and Urbanism Bekir Bozdağ, Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erd Erdogan Baytar, Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç, Transport, Maritime and Telecommunications Büzli Yıldırım. [[Votings continued.]] Are there any lawmakers who don't use the game? No. The voting process is complete. Please remove the boxes. [[The selection of votes has begun.]] Members of parliament, as a result of the secret vote of Article 2 of the Law Proposal on the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey: Members of parliament, the First Talks on the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey have been completed. The second meeting can begin after at least 48 hours. In accordance with the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 10th 2012) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (October 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
