tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, we're on the agenda. The presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly, and I'm teaching it: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the National Defence and Internal Affairs Commissions is scheduled to make a formal visit to Croatia. Its participation in the ceremony is subject to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. I submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted to the counter. Members of parliament, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the Central Management Law bill of 2013 and the 2011 Central Management Computation Act. Under the schedule, we'll have two rounds of interviews today. The first round includes the presidency, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the State Department, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Council, the budget and precise accounts, and the final account of the Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board. 1) The presidency's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 EPISODE DETECTIVE EXPERIENCE 1) Prime Ministerial High Control Board 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Constitutional Court Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) President of the Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Court Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Prosecutor's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The Prime Minister's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Prime Ministerate's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency (x) 361 and 362 S. The Numbered Basmazes and Funding Citvets are added to the 36th Union Charter, dated 10/12/2012/2012. 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2013 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2011 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, the 34th Union of 5/12/2012 has decided that the question in budget talks will be asked without justification and the question-answer process for each round will be 20 minutes. According to this, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour must enter the system. After the talks on the tour are over, the questioners will ask their questions in order of order on the screen. The question will be completed in ten minutes. Ten minutes to respond will be given. If the answer is completed before ten minutes, the next question holders will be promised for the rest of the time. It's for your information. In the first round, I read the names of the members who were spoken for by their groups and individuals: Nationalist Movement Party: Edip Semih Yalçın, Gaziantep MP, ten minutes; Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP, ten minutes; Faruk Bal, Konya MP, fifteen minutes; Ismet Grandataman, Bursa MP, fifteen minutes. Republican People's Party: Atilla Kart, Konya MP, nine minutes; Bkent Kuğoğlu, Ankara MP, eight minutes; Bedii Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP, eight minutes; Dilek Akagün Yılmaz, Uğur MP, eight minutes; Turgut Dibek, Kırklareli MP, eight minutes; Kamer Young, Tunceli MP, nine minutes. Peace and Democracy Party: Sırrı Sakık, Mud MP, 20 minutes; Murat Bozlak, Adana MP, fifteen minutes; Alto Tan, Diyarbakır MP, fifteen minutes. AK PARTI: Muhammad Bilal Macit, İstanbul MP, 5 minutes; Nevzat Pakdil, Kahramanmarash MP, five minutes; Mustafa Kabakcı, Konya MP, five minutes; Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Nigde MP, five minutes; Yusuf Başer, Yozgat MP, five minutes; John Akman, Şanlıurfa MP, five minutes; Mevlüt Akgün, Karaman MP, Mehmet Necati Çetinkaya, Adana MP, five minutes; Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas, Sivas MP, 5 minutes; Şahti, Şahti Şan. In the name of his subjects, Zülfu Demirbağ, Elazığ MP, five minutes, in his favor. Versus Flood Köse, Corrum MP, five minutes. Interrogation in 20 minutes. Now, Edip Semih Yalçın, MP of Gaziantep. Here you go, sir. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0002par0069	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action to discuss the presidential budget here today. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the presidential system comes during the first phase of agendas that have been tried to remain public recently by the ruling party's spokesman. This is a matter that directly concerns the presidency, but so far no comment has been made from the President, who is in charge of the matter. We think it's remarkable that the current government has raised this issue in the process of creating a new constitution. As you know, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey continues to write new constitutions in the Constitutional Compromise Commission. Naturally, the debate of the presidential system, which will determine the shape of the regime, will also come to the commission. In this case, new constitutional studies will be interrupted and will remain in the shadow of the regime debates. At a time when the regime debates are on the agenda, there is a high probability that the constitution will bring a political crisis with it. Therefore, the regime should first end the debate, and the constitution must take its final form. At a time when the violations of fundamental rights and freedoms are widespread in Turkey, the ways to ensure all human and democratic rights are sought, the way the presidential system is tried to be treated as a cure for trouble, we are not looking for good intentions, we are not participating in assessments that the presidential model will be a solution to Turkey's problems. Respected MPs, the political regime is a political building. It is a system that regulates the governance structure of a society, in a broad sense, between those who govern it and those who govern it. If there are values such as the common language, culture, geography, country and belief union that will make the phenomenon of unity and integrity continuous in society, it is the political regime that will keep those values together. The regimes that can't achieve social harmony and balance destroy governments. There are many political regimes and practices on the face of the world. Each country adopts and implements the way it governs its own society. Even the least theoretically imperfect regimes are likely to cause new problems in practice. When the model of a political regime, which does not suit a society's structure, cultural dynamics, is adopted, social tissue will reject it. The United States is most likely in debates about the presidential system, but it is not considered as to whether the American model will function in another country, whether it will fit in other social structures. In the United States, the presidential system has its own historic process. The structure of the American community, the dynamics, and the pains during the establishment of the federal government are unique to this country and not to this nation. Members of parliament, the classic parliamentary regime is tasked with representational tasks for the president elected by representatives of the nation. In this system, the prime minister's powers do not search for the semi-presidential model. In contrast, the president's jurisdiction is wide in the presidential election. The president also has sovereign powers to disband the assembly, to seek a referendum, to declare a state of emergency, to be able to raise the power of law, execution, and even the power of justice. The president is a king above living and above running. Hence, famous political scientist Marcus Duverger described the head of running the presidential system as the elected king. It is not right to present the semi-presidential model as a cure for Turkey's problems. In countries outside the United States, this model has more disadvantages than its advantages. The number of countries ruled by parliamentary democracy in the world, including Britain, Germany, Italy, Japan, India and Australia, is much higher than those run by the presidency. Besides, there is no evidence, no scientific data, that there is a direct link between the level of democracy in any country and the presidential system. Dear lawmakers, Mr. Prime Minister's presidential dreams have been published and published by an AKP MP. The book, which advocates the presidential system, admits that the presidential system, which the ruling party is trying to implement, is similar to the reigning system. See, what Mr. Prime Minister says about the presidential system: let's discuss the presidential system and take advantage of it. Let's work so that it's the Turkish system. Once again, the first condition for the regime to be a Turkish-run style is that the unitary state structure and the principle of national sovereignty must be protected. There is no way that we can believe that a mindset that is trying to remove the name and the emphasis of national sovereignty from the Constitution will create a presidential system in accordance with the fabric of the Turkish nation and the Turkish culture. As a matter of fact, a poll conducted by a research company recently revealed that support for the presidential system was very low in public. It is a fact that the state of rights and freedoms in a country depends not on the kind of healthy functioning of democracy, but on how the system works and how it's designed. Then where is the problem for Turkey? The problem is not in the regime, but in the mentality, perspective, and practice of those who run the regime. Unfortunately, political power has a problem determining Turkey's priorities and needs. While Turkey is in the ring of fire and the security of our borders is threatened, it is unfortunately wasting time on agendas set by the Prime Minister's single-man ambitions. Dear friends, democracy is not a regime built on the absolute and arbitrary will of the majority. Democracy is a form of governance that guarantees the rights of those left in the minority in the face of the majority's judgment. It's wrong to count democracy as the decision of the people to determine their will by choice. In Dicta regimes, the people also go to the chest and vote for the dictator. So what's fundamental is the establishment of a fair and liberal regime that maintains the law of all the people equally. The closest system to modern democracy we're talking about is multiparty parliamentary system, pluralistic democracy. With that dignity, it's not reasonable to introduce the presidential system as a cure. The main thing is to make the necessary constitutional and legal arrangements to address shortcomings and flaws and to operate the system in good health. In that sense, Turkey should focus on strengthening and healing the existing parliamentary system, not on changing its current parliamentary system. If Nasrettin Hoxha tries to steal yeast into the lake, it is of no use to try a foreign mixture within the state and society by importing regimes into our nation's cultural lake, or by mixing a few different regimes. The conditions for bringing the presidential system in Turkey are not yet ripe. Before they want the presidential system, it is imperative that those who run Turkey reach an agreement at the point of who owns this land and accept the eternal sovereignty of the Turkish nation. Honourable lawmakers, another fact has come to light due to presidential debates. That is that Mr. Prime Minister, the late Alparslan Türkesh Bey, who is the father of our party, reads and explains his book Nine Light. The Prime Minister's reference to the nine Light systems has greatly pleased us, but Mr. Erdogan is getting the part of the nine Light that fits his presidential dreams and ignoring all the other valuable information. AKP executives who illustrate nine Lightes for the presidential system are struggling for nothing. The understanding that wrote that book is based on the fact that Turkey belongs to the Turkish nation; the undivisable integrity of the Turkish state with its country and nation is based on the national and unitary state structure. When it gets stuck, we wish that the AKP (AKP) people, who cling to the idea of MHP, should not only use what is available to them from nine Lightes, but to have their soul available to them. This is my wish and wish to end my words, and I salute the High Council with my deepest respect, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0003par0085	Thank you, Mr. Yalçin. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the second speaker is Süleyman Nevzat Korkmaz, Isparta MP. Mr. Korkmaz, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0004par0089	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Chairman of the Court. I salute your high council. Dear members of a historic Assembly, as you know, we were led by the Grand National Assembly, and then our state was established. For this reason, this Parliament is the Gazi Parliament; it is the Turkish nation's only solution; its value is better understood during the coup, when parliament was eliminated because every military coup council was targeted. However, even military juntas felt the obligation to form a parliament, whether for show or not, to enforce their own will, because they could not express their legitimacy without parliament. In this regard, this great roof represents the desire of the Turkish nation to live within the pluralist parliamentary system as much as it represents its unity, its unity. Anyone who serves under this roof must be aware of the responsibility of this mission and of why you're here. Everyone comes and goes, the people who live. Sociologists don't describe the concept of the nation as just a community of people living today. It's all about the past and the future, people. That is why it is imperative that the will in parliament look after the founding will and the back of the nation. No one and no party is above institutional law, and no one can make any demands beyond that. It's unthinkable for anyone who's taken it as a way to act outside of this, to have a privilege such as parliamentary immunity. Because this great roof is not a place where the enemies of the nation, the baby killers, the outlaws, are protected. Everyone has to pay attention to these issues, especially those who run the House. Parliamentary Presidency is not just a position that takes foreign travel or accepts delegations, determines who will be appointed in parliament or who will be employed in parliament. It's an institution that escorts our constitutional system, state integrity, the protection of our national unity. Many proposals and proposals that are incompatible with the rhetoric and spirit of our Constitution have been discussed and legalized in this Parliament, despite opposition from the National Movement Party. With a parliamentary administration that turned its back on these sensibilities, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was practically notarized as the government's notary. Effendi is the nation's unconditional word. The majority of us do whatever we want. It has been transformed into form. Turkey's Grand National Assembly reflects the will of our nation, along with its power and opposition. Sovereignty is not said to belong to the majority of the people unconditionally. What makes this system democratic is not the power of power, but the presence of opposition. The Speaker must know that he can only serve democracy by protecting the law of the minority in the system. Dear lawmakers, elected by the AKP, today or before, the Speakers of Parliament have not shown that position. I'm asking which Speaker of Parliament has resisted the AKP's plans to crush the opposition on behalf of democratic culture. Apart from symbolic boards and votes, when is the opposition allowed to participate in parliament's administration? Even in this last ombudsman's election, the House has been watched undermining its reputation with a vote that even crows laughed at, in accordance with procedure, but contrary to consciences, unfortunately, no AKP MP has been offended by it. All right, as in RTÜK, this board could have been a mixed board, represented according to the vote rate taken by the parties. Why is it that you have the majority, a simple display of kindness that has not been granted a life of different ideas? In the creation of a Parliament that fits the laws of power, such as this, does it not have the negligence, responsibilities of the rulers, of those who need to speak? Once again, I would like to remind you that the Parliament Speaker has urgent duties to stop the opposition from being a ground where the AKP has ignored its opposition, and should not run away from responsibility. Of course, with these criticisms, I consider it a duty to express my thanks to all of your departments, bureaucrats, and all of your employees, especially the Support Services, who provide services to lawmakers day and night. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk about the Court, which is one of the institutions in the ten-year period of AKP power that has been evacuated, one of the main pillars of the state. One of the key criteria for real democracies is the accountability of power that uses public power and its source. The government, of course, will use public power and public resources because it is authorized by the citizen to serve. However, the national will, which gave him that authority, gave the opposition the mandate to oversee the government in his name. Powers that can't be accounted for can only happen in dictatorships. Powers who use public power and people's money in accordance with the interests of the nation do not fear control, do not avoid accountability. But the AKP must have hidden something that has been avoiding accountability for ten years. There's no mistake in the analogy, as the occupational forces did when they left our land, burning, tearing down, emptying out any institution that might be able to answer to him today or tomorrow. During the ten-year period of power, the AKP used at least $1.5 trillion of public resources each year, including $150 billion. The double road cost he boasts of is about $20 billion, which is about one percent of the resources he uses, one and a half. Health costs have tripled, but the government has squandered public resources to enrich its allies, private hospitals and drug cartels, not to take the burden off the citizens. Billions of dollars of this kind to be questioned, unfortunately, cannot be audited. The AKP has emptied the boards of inspections, the most important foreign control institution has made the Court ordinary, de-compensating it and transformed it into a consultant. I mean, it's taken all the weight out of our political system. And these numbers, unfortunately, confirm what we're saying. The Court's budget last year is 142 million liras, 142 trillion liras. The budget size that should be controlled is 920 billion, 920 quadrillion liras. The number of institutions he needs to inspect is 6,700. Please note that the number of institutions he supervised in 2012 is not just 132, not even 2 percent. Moreover, almost no inspection has been made in areas such as government municipalities, development agencies, institutions' rentals of vehicles and real estate. The number of reports sent to parliament control is zero. Yeah, you didn't hear wrong, zero. Each report cost $1.1 trillion. Since there was no report sent to Parliament in 2011, the public's money is 142 trillion liras. For the first time in the history of our parliament, the budget used by public institutions has not been learned. It's simply a duty to neglect, to damage the state. The court, which should be overseeing whether the state has been harmed, has become the institution that has damaged the state itself. From where to where, gentlemen! In the midst of the law, the Court administration, which did not send these reports to parliament, has committed crimes, using the clause added to Law 6353. The government, which bears the political responsibility of the Court, is obliged to bring an explanation to the Parliament immediately. In the case of tax evasion, the Court has eliminated these reports, avoiding the will of the nation, for reasons such as fire and flooding. Therefore, the republic's prosecutors must also pursue this open illegality. Not only opposition MPs, but AKP MPs with a conscience and a mercy should be offended by this order that defies the will of the nation. The repercussions of the government's escape from control have crossed our borders. We're looking at the European Commission's latest progress report. This report states that the independence and efficiency of the Court's control and control has been compromised, saying that the legal changes taken by the AKP (AKP) from parliament have caused serious concerns. The AKP, in its definition of itself, really the white party, should go ahead with the lawless and non-serious act of the Court. Otherwise, tomorrow's reckoning will be held on the Supreme Court. As a result, I see no point in discussing the budget of institutions that we can't even see their reports on and their exact account, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0005par0098	Thank you, Mr. Korkmaz. The third speaker for the National Movement Party Group is Mr. Faruk Bal. Mr. Honey, here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0006par0103	Mr. President, I stand before you to explain the views of the National Party of Action in the 2013 budget talks on our three important institutions, which constitute the essence of democracy and the rule of law. I salute the grand jury. On this occasion, I would like to begin by wishing that the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, and the Court of Justice, the Clerks, the Clerks, the Editors, the Editors, the Editors, the Editors, the election staff, would have a better opportunity to serve the judiciary in a better year. Dear MPs, the concept we call "Democracy" is a mechanism of balance and control between legislation, executive and judicial bodies. Legislature, execution and judgment are in every political regime, but the mechanisms of balance and control exist only in democracies. These balances and control mechanisms are carried out in harmony between forces, while the control of powers is carried out only by the ability of the judicial body. Thus, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office have become three important institutions, which are directly linked to the regime, the rule of law and the rule of law and directly affect our daily political lives. My dear friends, the Constitutional Court of Legislature, and the executive body are balanced and supervised by the Courts of State and Administration, and when we add the Supreme Court, which has faced serious problems in its history, our judicial system has become a total problem and is the most serious problem facing Turkey. In this scope, the Justice and Development Party has ruled this country for ten years. The Justice and Development Party had the influence, authority and opportunity to address the main issues of the judiciary within ten years. Instead of resolving the problems of the judiciary, the Justice and Development Party has added new problems in ten years. The judgment, of course, used to have problems. These problems would have to be solved. In these problems, there was a problem expressed in the form of the judiciary's decision-making, which affected its neutrality, there were issues about the fact that the judiciary had offended its confidence, there were problems with the neutrality of the judiciary, and the Justice and Development Party had to look for answers to these issues, while it was only due to its rights, law and justice, and justice that brought them to an impassable point when we arrived in 2013. My dear friends, the judiciary had a workload problem. Ten years ago, when we looked at the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the first-degree courts, the budget talks at that time, we said it had reached a critical extent. Now, I'd like to give you the percentages of how far the situation has reached from that dimension to 2013, which we're going to take to the point where we're going to move from there to there. My dear friends, the amount of work that came to the Supreme Court Office in 2011 increased by 105 per cent according to 2002 figures. According to 2002 figures, the amount of work for the Supreme Court legal agencies increased by 82 per cent as of 2011. According to 2002, the amount of work for the Supreme Court criminal agencies increased by 210 per cent as of 2011. The increase in these rates is based on the amount of work that's coming in, and the situation is even worse when we look at the active files. Dear lawmakers, the amount of work that comes to the legal and criminal agencies increased by 348 per cent during the process handing over from 2002 to 2011. The case file, which was eliminated due to the statute of limitations, has increased by 983 per cent. The conclusion is that the citizen is court-martialed with one another. When a citizen takes refuge in the court as a safe haven, he does not get his due. The citizen's right to a fair trial is violated. The citizen is not entitled to a reasonable period of time. When we look at the prosecution, it's not different when we look at the state of the State of the State and the interior of the administrative courts. The rise in the regional administrative courts from 2002 to 2011 has reached 93 per cent in the business situation, 135 per cent in the administrative courts, 67 per cent in the tax courts, and 259 per cent in the district court. The conclusion is that since the State has supervised and balanced the executive body, the executive body is also a political responsibility of the Justice and Development Party, the citizen is complaining of the Justice and Development Party's services, politics and the functioning of the state. The citizens are at odds with the state, the citizens are in line with the state, and the direct political engagement of this order is the Justice and Development Party. My dear friends, we've always complained about judgment. As a member of the judiciary, I watched these complaints with sadness and anxiety and anxiety. First of all, the Justice and Development Party complained and made judgment a target. Instead of finding a solution to their complaints, law, justice, the AKP wanted to wash blood with blood in the judiciary, and came to a conclusion: First, the judiciary said it had made a political decision. It was true that the judiciary made political decisions from time to time, such as the decision to close the party, but now it's a decisive political decision, as in the Lighthouse case, as in the case of the special authorities, the courts are still being used as a weapon to suppress non-compliants rather than as a group of justice. He had a complaint at the point of insecurity of the judiciary, which the Prime Minister himself had expressed, and that was the opinion of the public, but now, this has come out catharticly, and the results have been reflected, until the polls of the public. My dear friends, when we consider the result of the shakedown of trust in the judiciary, no one now trusts the judiciary but you, because you have politicalized the judiciary, you have begun to use political judgment as a weapon. Of course, in that ten years, there was a reason why you were so moved by judgment or so much over judgment. Within ten years, the AKP has created subsidized capital, and the AKP has frightened non-compulsives in the ten-year process. Within ten years, the AKP has created a supporting press, and in the ten-year process, the AKP has frightened non-compulsive media. In the AKP's ten-year-old administration, advocating bureaucrats have taken over the state, and in ten years, bureaucrats in the AKP's administration have been intimidated. In ten years, judgment has been threatened by judgment. In ten years, my dear friends, the judges, the Supreme Court members have been intimidated, the prosecutors have been intimidated, the writers have been intimidated, the defendants have been intimidated, the intermediaries have been intimidated, every level of the judiciary has been intimidated, to their bailiff. How on February 28th, the judges who decided to listen to their own phone were exposed today because of fear of the Sacit Islander. Today, prosecutors who have investigated AKP supporters' corruption by a court order from Germany have been intimidated, fired, and dragged into court by another element of the judiciary. So, not only did you politicize the judiciary, but in 2007, you had it put to sleep in parliament, even though you prepared a bill to reduce the number of members of the Judiciary's 250 to 150, to reduce the number of members of the Court to a court of law and reduce the number of members of the State. By the 2010s, you turned the Supreme Court into the world's most obese court, turning it into a 387-member obese court, and turning the State into the world's most obese prosecutor, making it 180 members. What was your purpose in doing that? Your purpose was clear and clear, and it was to have your followers elected to the Supreme Court, your supporters to the State. You played the same game in the Constitutional Court, and as a result, you created Turkey's most serious, fundamental problem in terms of democracy and law. You have turned capital into a more violent and more ruthless party state than the only party state in the 1930s, which you have tried to strongly criticize by making the press allies in the ten-year AKP rule. We're not the only ones who say that, but now the European Association of Judges is watching Turkey. The reports of the European Judiciary Association, which was submitted to everyone's information on November 11, 2012, were published after a six-month review. It is expressed here that judges, prosecutors are afraid in Turkey. It is expressed here that judges and prosecutors are anxious by your practices of discipline and court-martialing, and that is the most significant indication of the direction of the dictatorship, which eliminates the principles of independence and neutrality of judges and justice in a fair, reasonable time, and eliminates universal values. My dear friends, in this framework, when you created problems with the regime, democracy, the state of law, you didn't bring any of the problems of the judiciary that are awaiting solutions. You're going to reduce the workload of the judiciary, provide technological support for the judiciary, motivate the judicial staff to work, cut off their rights of transportation as well as any of the problems given to you, as well as their job risk, justice compensation, technical service compensation, overtime fees, service, and care problems. Editors who perform the most important tasks in the judiciary are employed as slaves for a price of misery. You deny the bailiffs, who are not only in the file, but also in the pencil business, the ability to take the general management services class and improve their social lives, just a little bit. All of these deprivations and their unresolved problems are not just the problems of the judiciary. These are the main problems of citizens awaiting judicial service because the problem of the judiciary has become not only the problem of the judiciary but also the problem of citizens awaiting judicial service. The length of judicial services, the lack of their cases in a reasonable amount of time, is the problem of the judiciary... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... ontheotherside is the problem of the people who are looking for justice. So, this problem has become huge in the ten-year AKP administration, and we say it's not possible to solve it with the budgets that have been split, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0007par0121	Thank you very much, Mr. Honey. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, the final speaker is Mr. Ismet Bünataman, Mr. Bursa MP. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Ataman, please. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0008par0126	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I begin my words, in the year of his death, I remember Huseyin Nihal Atiz Bey, a man who dedicated his life to the idea of Turkish nationalism, mercy, gratitude, and respect; God rest his soul, and may his place be in heaven. On a winter day, the bayonets were silent on a front, and suddenly we're stuck, we're stuck, Pusat-free, Turkish hands naked, Turkish hands without lines. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group on the budget of the National Security Council General Secretaryship budget and the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister and National Intelligence Agency of the 2011 Central Management Act. I hereby salute your high council with the utmost respect. Honourable MPs, the 2013 budget is not social and fair. Injustice and unconscionability not only show itself in tax collection, but also in the distribution of the budget. While the primary duty of social and democratic states is to present social and public services to its people as equal, free, qualified, and available, the AKP government aims to make a budget that aims to transfer our taxes to its supporters rather than transfer them to public services. The AKP follows a budget policy that encourages rich people to earn more instead of lifting the burden of the poor. The gap in income distribution and injustice are increasing day by day. As the rich become richer, the poor are struggling to survive under more difficult circumstances every day. Dear lawmakers, we must have a common goal to strengthen the presence of the National Intelligence Agency, which is irrefutablely important to all of us in the process of coming to the National Intelligence Service, to the National Service, to the National Intelligence Service, in 1965, to the country's country and nation. The National Intelligence Agency is waging a war on psychological and propaganda against all domestic and external elements that have an eye for Turkey in war and peace. As with any state, the state of the Republic of Turkey must organise intelligence activities in order to establish the peace, the security of property and lives of citizens by providing the necessary information on domestic and external threats. In a recent arrangement, the Prime Minister's permission has been granted to investigate members of the MSI or those assigned by the Prime Minister for the purpose of carrying out a specific mission while performing their duties or for alleged crimes. The Prime Minister, who first denied negotiations with the PKK in Oslo and then had to accept it, apparently used the MIT as the instrument of division and the trigger hand, to prevent the emergence of the truth and to take himself from the judiciary to the non-democratic position. The Special Prosecutor's Office of İstanbul has rushed to legal changes in order to protect members of the MIT, who have been called as suspects by the special prosecutor's office. Along with this arrangement, the 26th article of the MIT Law has been redacted to cut the legal process. This step is a legal primitive, a product of the cabinet mentality. In a manner of speaking, the homeowner is the thief. It has been left to the Prime Minister's pleasure to allow those appointed by the Prime Minister to be investigated for their crimes. One of the basic principles of the law is that no law can be passed to a person, and the principle of law is violated. I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister a few things: has the hunger strike been terminated by the MIT-Ecalan talks? Is the government, with the MIT, trying to preserve the leadership position of Ocalan (Ecalan) within the organisation? What is the purpose of denying and later accepting talks with the PKK in Oslo? Who recorded these interviews and leaked them to the press? Has there been an investigation into the matter within the institution? If it's started, what are the consequences? Our recommendation to power is that the work of the National Intelligence Agency, which is under the command of the great Turkish nation, should be supported against our superior national interests. You have to give up opening policies by acting against division and all sorts of divisions. A total war against terror must be waged. National forces must be reinforced by realizing that the Turkish nation is being targeted from the front and straight ahead. The attacks against the nation and the state must be eliminated. In 2012, the budget of the MIT was $750m, $924,000, while the 2012 budget was $665m,568,000. The national intelligence agency's budget for 2013 increased by 32.2 per cent from the previous year to 995 million 569 thousand liras. The National Intelligence Service must be prevented from seeing the Prime Minister's private services. If the prime minister imagines an organization that brings him news, gathering the materials of his own domestic politics, he must travel with his own party budget to create this from members of his own party. People's trust fund and the satisfaction of personal ambitions are a result of great humiliation in both cases. In the rule of the Justice and Development Party, which has been re-provoked by terror, the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) is coming to raid the police station in groups, and in this situation, Deputy Prime Minister Bkent Arinc: The terrorists were very numerous and had heavy weapons. Despite the theft of the vehicle used in the bomb attack, which caused 10 people to be killed in Gaziantep, and 67 others to be injured in various places, four months -- including buses -- it also shows our lack of intelligence and the extent in which it came. In the case of Syria, either our intelligence agencies are missing or they are wrong, or the Prime Minister is setting policies based on US sanctions, not on the information he's been given. Otherwise, it's not wise to reason that a Muslim country's Prime Minister is responsible for these events, where the brother's quarrel is at its peak, where his Muslim blood flows like a gutter. While there's a lot more to say about our lack of intelligence, while Oslo is in the middle of nowhere, we're wondering, shouldn't our intelligence be strengthened as our intelligence units' budget increases to this degree? Or does the Prime Minister just finance and use intelligence services to listen to citizens, rivals and journalists? Dear lawmakers, what can be expected of a National Security Council that keeps the state high moraled with all its organs, ready for every occasion and condition, but whose activity has been destroyed, driven to hunger and curse, and has been consumed by vision and mission? The National Security Council makes recommendations on the appointment, detection and implementation of the state's national security policy. He finds an opinion to ensure co-ordination, gives his recommendation and opinion to the Council of Ministers and fulfills the duties given by law. Turkey's efficient air defence system is unfortunately not available. This problem has always been postponed. The Justice and Development Party, who boasted of building the so-called national defence industry, has not achieved a worthy success. The tenders have not been terminated. Now that our country is a party to the Syrian civil war, which Prime Minister Erdogan has forced to climb unnecessarily, it faces a clear danger. To side with a crisis like the Syrian crisis without an air defense system is like holding fire with your bare hands. The number of Patriots required of NATO is few, and unfortunately, it is not in a position to provide adequate protection, but its presence is only appearance. The government must take new and urgent measures. When Assad's regime falls, if a single missile hits any of our cities, its actual and psychological effects are greater than thought. Those who rule the state of the Republic of Turkey do not have the luxury of giving our nation this misfortune. After a missile hit Turkey, it would be impossible to make up for the loss of our state and nation if we could all, together in this great Parliament, all of us, in the mornings. It's hard to understand how those who have been in charge of power for ten years can do more than they can when we don't have a domestic air defense system. I'd like to ask the ruling owners: What work did you do to build a domestic air defence system in your ten-year power? What measures have you taken in the face of a possible attack on national security? Dear lawmakers, this government has set the record for a covert grant in the history of the republic. They used $5.3 million, Mr. Ciller, Mr. Erbakan 6.3 million, Mr. Yilmaz 8.8 million, Mr. Ecevit 170 million in grants. Prime Minister Erdogan, who set a record of spending on the covered grant, spent $391m in 2011 and $587m in the first eight months of 2012. The budget deficit is being given a raise on grounds, while millions of dollars spent by the Prime Minister are not disclosed as to where it goes. Where does this money go? What's with the extravagance? Did the millions spent on covered funds go to Oslo meetings, or was it given to someone else? Besides, what is the desire of the Prime Minister's palace to be built on the site of the Ataturk Forest Farm? Is the current Prime Minister's office inadequate? In recent times in the Empire, the luxury of the palace will not bring Turkey to the end of the great Ottoman state, I hope. Is this how the fake Ottoman project, a product of the U.S. Middle Eastern Project, the project to break up the Middle East, destroy the Islamic world, will be built, as well as the new palace of Ottomanism? It seems that Prime Minister Erdogan expects the legitimate monarchy to be restored and that he himself will be the chosen sultan, and he strives to create the infrastructure of it. Honourable lawmakers must be made to work in modern ways, by redefined authority and responsibilities of institutions in the field of domestic security, by providing the service to be carried out in harmony. In corporate construction, intelligence activities, information flow and the fight against crime, an effective co-direction must be provided between the units. Border and coastal security must also be provided for cross-border measures when necessary. As I put an end to my words, I wish the 2013 budget to bring blessings to our beloved nation, and salute your grand delegation with my deepest respect and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0009par0151	Thank you, Mr. Bigataman. Now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Attila Kart, Congressman of the Conium. Mr. Card, please. Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0010par0157	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the presidential and parliamentary budget. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the fact that five years since August 28, 2007, the president of the Republic, who should be the head of the state, has been no more than a validator of procedures and practices, as he discriminated among the citizens of the Republic of Turkey. He could not bear the dignity, weight and responsibility of the presidency. I'd like to share these with you immediately with concrete events and examples: after five years, Mr. President has ratified 674 laws and vetoed 6 laws. He's been in full command of approval. Universal law has shown no responsibility to base any democratic measure in terms of community sensitivities, pluralistic construction. On the one hand, he was trying to send a message to the ruling group, and on the other hand, he was at the top of his game to avoid the Prime Minister's reaction. He put his personal position and expectations above the interests of the Republic of Turkey. There's been a lot of joy, injustice, and irresponsibility in the presidential election. There's a lot of examples, and I'll give you an example: The candidate who won 9 per cent of the presidential election at Gazi University is preferred to the candidate who received 60 per cent of the vote. Why would a woman who has not been appointed to the first position, who has taken the vote below 10 per cent, and has made it clear to a certain congregation that I will be elected to the first six, if I am guaranteed to be elected? Why would the President appoint someone who does not refuse to do propaganda? At what cost and at what cost? And after making such an unjust choice, sir, I complain in his own way, sir, as I complain in the SEC's legislation, it binds my hands. Is there any credible and consistent explanation for saying that? Would such cheap politics suit the President of the Republic of Turkey? We can't find out about the President's informal visits to Saudi Arabia and Qatar. We're asking in legal terms, we're asking in motion, we're not getting answers. You can see that the sense of responsibility and darkness prevails here, too. Are you hiding something from the public on unofficial visits? As he did not reveal the gifts he received from the King of Saudi Arabia, he cannot explain the reason why the King of Saudi Arabia went to his feet on November 10th and awarded him a state medal of honor. What superior waiver, what superior success, and what superior benefit did the king of Saudi rule display? On November 10th, the President and Prime Minister presented a picture of the King of Saudi Arabia in a lame position and a hotel visit, causing a great deal of suffering and suffering over the dignity, representation and sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey. Why does the president hide his informal visits and gifts to Qatar and Saudi Arabia? Is it appropriate to hide these things from the president? The book of journalist Ahmet Şık is being destroyed in the draft phase. The President's comment: "Sir, freedom of opinion and thought is advanced in our country." There can be isolated events like this. The book was going to sell ten thousand, and now it's going to sell a hundred thousand. Would you look at the shallow and irresponsible position of the President, which would not be appropriate for the presidency of the Republic of Turkey in a time when all citizens of the Republic of Turkey were being watched, through listening, through surveillance, their basic rights and freedoms were threatened, the perpetrators and the responsible were never found, and the auto-sensorship was dominated not only in the media, but in the entire community? Isn't that an attitude that literally means discrimination? Look, precious MPs, how can a country be surrounded by its communication, its safety? How do you get delivered through a country's media, sports, economy, advertising cake? Do you know what the example of this is? This is an example of the precious MPs. Look, in that TELEKOM, why would the President of the Republic of Turkey not open his mouth, why would he ignore it, why would he ignore it? Why doesn't he follow, and why doesn't he answer? Queen II. From Elizabeth, in May 2008, you receive the Grand Knight's Order on a British aircraft carrier anchored in front of Dolmabahçe. Maybe. We also don't question the meaning of this. How can the President not be disturbed by the absence of the Turkish flag on an aircraft carrier in the black waters of the Republic of Turkey? Don't these symbols, these gestures, these concepts, these values mean anything to the president? Doesn't the president know that when he received the 2010 Chatham House award on November 9th, when he was again receiving it from the Queen, it was in 1918 when the British invaded the Canakkale Strait, and when Alexander made troops for Antioch? Could the President be so lacking in political consciousness, political sensibility, or does these values not matter to the President? For the past three or four years, questions have been being served in the CSI-based central exams in the Republic of Turkey, where the President is deeply disturbed by this painting, but continues to perform theatrical demonstrations. He doesn't remember being responsible for this painting. He thinks the public believes what they're saying. Such seriousness does not suit the President of the Republic of Turkey. Dear MPs, the President of the Republic of Turkey cannot be president, the head of state cannot be. The regular and compatible work of state bodies has failed to fulfill its responsibility. He's never been more than a party president. I'd like to make a brief assessment of the Turkish Grand National Assembly as soon as I can. There's a lot to say, but the internal affairs and correspondence of the House is being interfered with outside the House. The House has become governed and directed from outside the House. That's what we've seen in the process of running for head of state. Parliamentary personnel await the removal of their rights to self-employment and staff injustice. Parliament staff needs morale and support. They're uncomfortable being discriminated against. And one thing that's finally worrying is that an attempt to destroy the archive of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's memory -- look, the process of outside interference has begun. We're seeing a new process, my dear friends, for stenographers, who are the most competent, the most selfless, the most responsible, the most technical, the most accurate. Instead of these friends, we're seeing the beginning of an attempt to establish a new structure in those certain relationships from outside the House. I'm warning the Speaker from here. We're talking about an initiative that could wipe out the House's corporate identity, its credibility, its dignity. Don't watch this destruction, this intervention, this attempt. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, you may appreciate that we will, of course, vote no as Republican People's Party against the budgets of the President and the Speaker of Parliament who performs such an understanding. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0011par0173	Thank you, Mr. Card. The second speaker is Ankara MP Bkent Kuşoglu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Kuşoglu, come in. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0012par0178	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Court budget. I salute you all. My dear friends, I would like to make a classic speech on this Court, saying that the Court is low on the 2013 budget, that there is much, that the Court's activities are insufficient, that they are inadequate, but I'm afraid there's a very vital situation in this situation, on behalf of the Court and on behalf of our people. So I have to talk about it first. It was discussed here yesterday, and the three presidents of the opposition also expressed the issue. In particular, the main opposition leader, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, devoted at least 12 minutes of his speech to this subject and said: "The most important issue of democracy is that we are here as MPs, because we are elected, in a sense, to the point of denial. Regarding the budget rights, it is a shame for us that it did not meet such an important issue about the 1,200, about democracy. He asked for the reasons for this in his twelve-minute speech. And Mr. Prime Minister mentioned the crime, I don't know what he said, not a word about it. I'm embarrassed. But it's really important, it's important to all of us, it's why we exist. We're here to oversee government spending, government spending in this country, that's why we exist. If there's any irregularities about this, if there's a problem, here, the Prime Minister should have come and answered it first. Shame on all of us, I'm afraid, is a subject of cruelty. I'm not going to get into this too much about budget rights, but I've got some questions in a little while. I specifically want these on the record and I want this matter answered. One: Why, as I have just said, did the Prime Minister not say anything about such an important issue, which the main opposition leader has been working on for several minutes? And today I'm looking at the press, and it's not clear to the press how important this is, unfortunately, they're not telling me enough. Perhaps the public didn't understand it either, but it's important that the highly valued lawmakers, people with a conscience, people who trust in the people and the Hakk. I'd like to ask the question again why it hasn't been answered. Two: Why was the 25th amendment to the Court of Justice brought here before the Court's General Assembly's opinion was taken, even though it was in the law, in July, when we gave the reason why the reports did not come here? The Law clearly states that a amendment to the number of laws is brought in with the opinion of the Court General Assembly. Why is a basic law brought here in a hurry by a bag of laws without being seen? Three: 132 performance reports were filed at that time concerning public enterprises. Why are those reports not being processed now, brought in the 35th item in a hurry, covered up over all this? Was there a situation? Now we have to ask, we all have to ask. What's covered up? And on that date, if such a need is felt, a temporary substance is put in place, not brought into such a rush, and it is said that the work on the 2011 will continue, or there will be a study about 2011. There is no such thing. There's no way to figure out why this wasn't brought in. The Court is a 150-year-old institution, an institution older than the Republic. It's in every country, anywhere with a government. At that time, for the first time in the history of 150 years, he makes an announcement, saying, "Look, my dear friends, the esteemed lawmakers, you've made such a change." Before and during the preparation of the matter, the Court's presidency was not given any information, no opinion was asked, so we had no part in this proposal text. We were asked to be on the commission the next day, with a fax message delivered the afternoon the day before the meeting began. We have not been able to participate in negotiations on the commission because of the way the proposal is prepared and also because it is not possible for us to participate in its content. That's what a state agency says. This council needs to respond to what's going on with it. And in regard to that, I, first of all, hold the ruling group's Deputy Speakers and Prime Minister responsible. First, they need to answer. An issue this important must be answered on a matter that concerns the dignity of this House. My dear friends, there is also a provision in the Constitution. According to the Constitution, this should not be the case. Even if we approve the final account of 2011, the Court must arrange these reports and send them here. Mr. President, I address you in particular. We'll have to take advantage of this particular matter, especially when we confirm this exact account. In accordance with the Constitution, we need to send these reports to us according to procedure. We also need to take a martyrship, not neglect our duty. Dear friends, on the other hand, there is this issue: There is no inspection outside the Court's supervision. I made a promise last year off the agenda. I told you the state was about to be wiped out after these 35 laws were passed, and we wouldn't be able to see the government after a few years. The inspection has already been destroyed, there are no inspection boards, especially the Finance Ministry, you see the situation in the Court for the past two years, there are no reports, no internal audits. Where there's no control, there's no government, we need to see this. I checked the records to see if there were any internal audits, no audits. There's only been 500 or so inspections in five years, and they have no consequences. That's not the way the government operates, that's not how the government maintains continuity. That should be the shame of all of us. When we make a decision about this, we all need to step up our conscience and think about it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0013par0191	Thank you, Mr. Kuyoglu. The third speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Bedii Süheyl Batum, Eskişehir MP. Mr. Batum, please. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0014par0195	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Constitutional Court for 2013. On behalf of myself and my group, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, why are there Constitutional courts, why are they set up? The Constitutional courts in the world only have one function: to maintain and secure basic rights and freedoms by controlling political power. To ensure that the operations of political powers are in the grip of the law. That's exactly the way it's used in constitutional law: to take politics into the legal grip. (Mr. Justice Minister described it in a different way, in a different way in the 2013 budget presentation; he spoke of superior judicial services, quality in the services of justice, and even the satisfaction of those who benefit. The satisfaction of the creators, that's right, we liked it, but we found out that the Minister and the majority of the government, unfortunately, understood something completely different from the satisfaction of the consumers. What they understand is customer satisfaction. You know, if the customer was my benefactor, we would have accepted it in a sense, but what you understand is that it's like an economic activity, not a right problem, but an economic problem, the Constitutional Court is a business, an institution. Don't say no. My dear friends, you have truly perceived the Constitutional Court as an economic institution, and you perceive it as an economic activity. You have redacted the Constitutional Court's Constitutional Court's Constitutional Court and the Law on Judicial Laws, and you will spend individual applications on Article 47. You said, "You are receiving tuition, 150 euros." In Article 51 of the same law, you bring something like this, if the application is not accepted, if it is not accepted, you will receive a fine of 2,000 lira. Now, what kind of right-seeking freedom is this, what kind of Constitutional Court? One person has been wronged, and my freedom has been violated. You did not accept the application of 150 liras. You did not accept it. The person who applied to the European Court of Human Rights is doing it without money. If his application is not accepted, there will be no punishment. The appeal to the Constitutional Court is 150 lira. Two thousand liras on the porch if it's not accepted. Because to you, it's not a freedom of rights, it's an economic activity, and the Constitutional Court is a business! Come on, if you understand, I'll accept, I'll say, the ruling majority saw it that way. The Supreme Court, the court of Hashim Kılıç, thinks it's a serious business. And don't say no to him. Dear friends, friends, you have denied the judge. And our grounds for rejection are very clear, very clear. We've written that we've written about the head of this court, that the Wikileaks documents of the court have written exactly as follows: "The American Ambassador came to us privately on August 1st, telling us that the CHP should blame itself for its current problems and that the People's Party is not doing anything right, as if its only job was to blame itself for everything the AKP government had done that the government had not said. It's the ambassador who said that. After that, he said: " (CHP) is running away to a facilitator. There is ease to solve problems by suing the Constitutional Court. He also said: "There is no way to allow those who have opinions outside the majority to act in such a manner as blocking power, defusing power. " That's what one man said, and we rejected him as a judge. How dare you! This is an economic institution, is the economic institution ever discredited? He said so, just like that! And according to Article 50, the judge has fined us 6,000 liras for our request for rejection. Well, I don't know if there's any good press here or not, but at least, MPs, look here: the first receipt, the second receipt, the third receipt, the fourth receipt, the fourth receipt... we have 12 receipts like this. Why? That's what the business agency, sorry, the Constitutional Court, is punishing us for looking for our rights, for rejecting the judge. We're discussing the budget of this Supreme Court today. Dear friends, 6,000 liras... that's how business works. Dear friends, I have one more thing to say. Now, he thought it was the necessity of the exploiters, the satisfaction of the utensils, and he perceived it as customer satisfaction. We agreed to all of this, and we said, well, that's business. Such will be the result of this. At least let him be an intermediary merchant. You know, we call him a self-medicating merchant. If he's an interim trader, we'll take him too. Notice, my friends, that Mahmoud Tanal and Ali Riza Ozturk asked us how many cars were assigned to this Hashim Kılıç, and what are their money? And these answered. He didn't answer first. Bekir Bozdağ said, "What do you care? It's up to you to keep their money, their cars, and then Mahmoud Tanal applied through the Information Act. They've answered. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, hang in there -- a tradesman, let's understand business -- says we bought him a car. We pay 7,600 euros a month for this car.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0015par0201	Rental?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0014par0202	Mercedes. Rent... rent... 7,600 euros a month. Here... Now, multiply 7,600 euros by a daily rate, that's close to 20 billion a month. Dear friends, a regular trader pays 220 billion a year. What kind of Constitutional Court is this? What kind of business is this? (HP and MHP in rows) What kind of a busy trader is this? Dear friends, the last thing I need to say is that at least he would have acted as an intermediary merchant in his decisions.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0016par0207	If they bought the car...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0014par0208	I wish they would... He changed his 30-year-old mind in his decision. In his presidential decision, he made us all laugh, put two stats together. In doing so, dear friends -- I say one thing -- on the one hand, Recep Tayyip Erdogan wanted to please Abdullah Gül. Well, of course, an interim trader will decide in favor of the bidder, the investor. We're discussing the budget of this Supreme Court, folks.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0017par0211	Mr. Batum, thank you, sir. Time's up.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0014par0212	So, I say no to this budget once again on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0018par0214	This is 7,600 euros, both the Chief Public Prosecutor and the Supreme Court Chairman...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0014par0215	Yeah, that, too. We'll tell them when the Supreme Court arrives.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0019par0216	Mr. Batum, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0014par0217	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0019par0218	Fourth speaker, Dilek Akagün Yilmaz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Yilmaz, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0020par0222	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a commitment to submit my views on the Supreme Court budget on behalf of the CHP Group. I'd like to start with the words of the great leader Ataturk, who is trying to be forgotten in this country. There is no need in the constitution of an organized society to explain the importance of independence of the force of justice. The right of justice of the nations is the first condition of independence. The existence of a non-independent nation as a state is unacceptable. Sadly, the principles expressed in these words in 1920 have now been destroyed in our country. This country is no longer subject to the independence and neutrality of the judiciary. The fight that is still happening is who is the owner of the judge? I'm really asking you, who's in charge of the judgment? Community or Prime Minister? This question sums up very clearly the situation of the Turkish judiciary, the Supreme Court. But you should know that neither the Republican People's Party nor the Turkish people will allow this reign to continue, and that the judiciary will not be put under the table like this. There is no rule of law in this country anymore, no independence of the judiciary, no sense of justice, no guarantee of the safety and freedom of anyone. The Constitutional referendum on September 12, 2010 is a breaking point in our country because the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council of Judges Prosecutors' structure has been completely altered, judicial independence has ended, the judiciary has become political. The Supreme Council of Judges, who became a politicalist and have been reduced to a general directorate of the ministry, has rewarded judges and prosecutors who appear to be close to power with their appointments, but they are independent and neutral, and they have thrown out those who actually do judge and prosecutors like hallac cotton. In fact, prosecutors have been tried to intimidate the entire judicial community, as the prosecutors who conducted the Lighthouse investigation have been removed from the hands of the prosecutors. Today, the Supreme Council of Judges swings over judges and prosecutors like the sword of Damocles. The empire of fear, let alone neutral and independent decision-making, is unfortunately encompassed by the entire judicial community. In all the elections of the 192 judges appointed to the Supreme Council of Judges and the amendment to the Supreme Assembly of the Supreme Court of Judges and the Supreme Court of Judges, the 192 judges who are newly appointed to the Supreme Court of Appeals, have been instructed to vote in the direction of the ministry. Elections are held from the Supreme Court to the heads of the agency, with the measure of proximity to power in all matters, up to the establishment of the council. Now Mr. Prime Minister can be happy; the judiciary is not a shackles on his feet; rather, it opens the way for all illegal operations of power and the ambitions of dictatorship. However, with these applications, the Republic of Turkey has declared to the world that it is not a state of law, it is a state ruled by dictatorship. Of course, the world didn't miss the fact that he'd fallen into judgment. As with the European Union's Progress Report, the European Judiciary Association, which visited our country last month, has determined the position of the judiciary in our country as follows:*It seems that the Turkish government has allowed the board to be included in the process of restructuring the HSYK, not by those representing the Turkish judiciary, but by the government's views. Concerns have arisen that the current structure of the High Council does not effectively support the independent judiciary. The European Union of Judges reminds us that guarantees of separation of powers and judicial independence do not allow the other two men to instruct the judiciary on what is necessary. Independent judiciary is based on the constitution and the law, not on the orders and directives of other men. Mr. President, if we're discussing the Supreme Court budget here, we can't ignore the inadequacy of the Supreme Court building, the lack of service to many different buildings, the lack of physical capacity of the building, and the fact that many of the examiners are working in tiny rooms that are in the toilet. It is required to be discussed here that the judges in the Supreme Court have been subjected to a virtual mobbin under pressure to make a decision, that the rights of salary and equity, despite the heavy workload, are far behind, but the budget set aside for the Supreme Court is 3.5/in 10,000ths of the general budget, friends. Will we be able to solve these problems with this budget, the government? Do the Justice Department or the Judiciaries throw serious shots about it? If the ministry really doesn't want the judiciary to accelerate and wait years for files in the Supreme Court, is it possible to establish these budgets, which have been established for years, but cannot be established? Another method the ministry understands is that citizens should not prosecute, I think, because now the costs are taken in advance when they're suing for amendments to the Law of Law. In a business case, even when they're going to receive labor, 500-600 liras are paid in advance, and expenses are paid. The citizen cannot prosecute, so the judiciary's work is reduced. If you don't have the money, don't press charges, don't ask for the rights so things will get less. What a fine solution the ministry has come up with, hasn't it? Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in July of this year, you removed the court of special authority with the third judicial package. Of course, this doesn't take for granted. You immediately replaced him with a terror court. And on top of that, you said, "Let those courts continue their duties until the trials of the private court, which is dominated by the congregation, are over." And you left sacrifices to the congregation justice. These inquisition courts are doing their historical duty. They do their executions without trial, with confidential witnesses, CDs, anonymous tip letters, without gathering evidence, without listening to witnesses, without sending the files to an expert. On December 13th, we will attend the trial of our MPs, Mr Mustafa Balbay and Mehmet Haberal, without trial, along with our people, all Republican People's Party MPs. But we already know they'll be there. If he's preparing for a fair trial on the basis of terrorist covert witnesses, without the answers of the museum yet, without the evidence being evaluated, there will be no fair trial there. It is the will of justice and the will of the nation, not of our MPs on trial there. Believe me, the European Court of Human Rights will sentence the Republic of Turkey to serious compensation in these matters. This is not something to brag about, but this trial our friends face will result in this conviction. Unfortunately, there is only one party dictatorship in this country now. The independence of the judiciary has been eliminated, the judiciary has been designed. In this country, where the judiciary is not independent, where the state of law is defamed, the empire of fear has been created. There will surely be a day when corruption, partisanism, all sounds of opposition are silenced, our country's integrity is tried to be destroyed. You'll need independent and impartial judgment one day, but once you do, you'll be too late, my friends. I give you all my love, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0021par0236	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the next speaker is Mr. Turgut Dibek of the 40s. Mr. Dibek, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0022par0241	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have been promised to share the views of the Republican People's Party on the Court's budget. First of all, I salute you. The court -- as the Court has just stated -- is an institution with over 150 years of history. He came all the way from the state of Shurah from 1868. 1924 is an institution in the constitutions of 61 and 82. So it's an institution that has a very important function within our government functioning and has taken on very important tasks. A high court is serving as a judge, judging, overseeing the illegal procedures of the administration; there is a task of reviewing, consulting, but I want to make it clear that this is the 150 years -- the period of the presidency -- that, I think, since the Supreme Court has taken these last two years from no government, from any government, from any government, from any government, from which they have pulled it out of power, and I want to make it very clear. There are friends here in charge of the D.A., and they're watching, and they're listening, so they'll understand what I'm saying. Look, dear friends, after the referendum -- after the referendum in 2010 -- I was here last semester -- I'm a living witness to the process we've been through, we've got fellow lawmakers -- AKP spokesman, especially after the referendum -- Mr. Secretary, other officials have always said that there were files in the Supreme Court -- and there were files piled up for the Court, 1.5 million cases waiting in the Supreme Court, there are 200,000 files waiting in the Court; here our citizens are being victims, the files are being subjected to a statute of limitations. An effective and fair, quick trial requires changes, reforms are needed. These were all magical words, beautiful words; we've always heard them, but we've heard them, dear friends, with Law 6110 in February 2011, the law that changed the entire structure of the Supreme Court and the State of State; it was not enough; then a decree was issued in August 2011 -- which you know very well that AKP likes to make arrangements in the rule of law -- but it was not enough, as well as some changes were made in the final operation to change the structure of the Dane. I don't want to tell you anything about the Supreme Court because it's the Court. Look, my dear friends, the number of apartments of the State has already been 13. This was added to 2 apartments by Law 6110, which I had just mentioned. There were 95 members in the court, 61 additional members. On the grounds that I have just stated, the judgment must be accelerated, we will move on to the double committee. Here, we will add two circles, and we will melt these files. This has been done with the expression. From 2010 to 2011, he handed over about 200,000 files, 197,500 files. In this statement, those changes were made in February 2011, but the numbers are here, and I'm looking -- and I'm going to talk about them soon -- actually the file that was transferred from 2010 to 2011. You might think that after these changes, the number of files from 2011 to 2012, from 2012 to 2013, now that we're in the next year -- it's in December, but now -- the number of files that have been turned on is reduced; it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not about that, it's about other valuable friends. In fact, what procedures are required in the court to reduce the number of cases? In the District Administration Courts, Management Courts and Tax Courts, make the following changes in the Law Against the Court of Appeals and Missions. As I recall, in February of 2010, Danıştay had sent a draft of 8-10 articles, maybe 12 articles to the ministry, so if you make these changes, our files will be reduced by 40 per cent, 50 per cent; there is no problem, there is no need for another change. Some of them, with this last judicial package -- they did it in the judicial package in July 2012 -- so they did it, and we supported it -- were able to get certain objections to some of the files in the district administration court, because there really were a lot of files that shouldn't have come to the prosecution. But look, what happened in the meantime? Let me put it simply because the time is really short. Dear friends, in this last amendment, in the package of judgment, about the State... the AKP's government has had a lot of anger in itself that has been in it for years, but it hasn't actually been hidden from time to time. Mr. Prime Minister -- he had decisions about the coefficient, you remember, he had decisions about the full day -- I remember very well, these decisions were driving us crazy. These decisions were ideological decisions, and we couldn't accept them. And to the ministry officials, to the Ministry of Justice, he said, "What are you going to do, stop this State from making decisions that will trouble us now?." Look, I'll tell you what happened at the DA's office, in this last law, dear friends, we bypassed the D.A.'s office, or rather you bypassed it. The prosecutors now express their opinion only in the main part of the cases filed as the first-degree court in the district office. The D.A.'s office was a very important institution, actually. So it's not really true to say that the prosecutor is the prosecutor, because the prosecutor is acting at a neutral, non-partisan point in the case; you can think like a reporter, you can think like a spokesman. In the administrative court, dear friends, since cases are subject to the written judicial system -- and so is this in France, all over the world -- those documents, written documents, are required by different people, to be examined by experts, to have opinions, and since this is a requirement of fair trial, the prosecutors have been serving for many years, dear friends. But what did you do? That's the law that lifted the prosecutors' powers to do that duty after that. What else did we do? What did you do? There's the Council of Prosecutor's Offices; a very important board is making a court of law, so its decisions lead to courts in the administrative judiciary later on. You've changed the Executive Court Board twice. You have turned one into 31 in Law 6110, and brought one into the building of 31. That wasn't enough, and you dropped it to 21 people in the last court package, and you made the Board of Executive Courts to serve for three years to change, and the goal was that until now, the Board of Executive Courts has been held, and there are decisions. These are, in a sense, binding decisions, as I say, both in administrative courts, the administrative courts, the district administration courts, and the State Department's offices. During this three-year period, you've established a precedent that will allow the AKP's power to be disturbed, disturbed, and angered by decisions to date to be eliminated. In fact, I have so much to say, I'm afraid I can't get enough time, and hopefully, I'll be able to say it another time. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bkent Arinc said something -- his friend, his friend, said -- at work at a meeting, God gives and gives. He said something like that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As far as the prosecution is concerned, I can point out that at the end of my words, at the point where we're here, I think you're in the right place, you're in the right place. From now on, I think we're going to have to face a state-of-the-art structure that doesn't need new changes, which is comfortable, without pissing you off, without disturbing the AKP's power, without making decisions that you don't want. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0023par0259	Mr. Dibek, thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, the last speaker is Mr. Kamer Young, a member of the Tunceli Congress. Here you go, young man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is nine minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0024par0264	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to explain my views on the current budget programme, the 2011 final account, the 2013 budget programme, of the high-profile law enforcement agencies. Dear MPs, actually, of course, the Prime Minister's 2011-2015 Prime Minister's Strategic Plan, and then there's the 2013 Performance Programme. When you read these, it's written really well, and it's made with a lot of fancy words, but it's the bottom line. Now, valuable lawmakers, in a parliament, in an institution, where people can respect each other, the sense of rights and justice must be dominated, where the injustices said should not be destroyed by the decision of dirty fingers -- taken away. Now, we're talking about the most legitimate issues here, but unfortunately, you're raising your finger, destroying the law. In a society like this, you can't talk about it with respect in a parliament like this. Now, there is a certain Erdogan in this prime minister's office. When he was mayor of Istanbul, his son ran over a woman and killed her. What did he do? There, the city wiped out his criminal elements, his prints, didn't arrest him for a single day, the judges and prosecutors who acquitted him are now in the Supreme Court. Now, in the Lighthouse case, when the corruption at the Lighthouse came to him and his family, he dismissed the prosecutors. Now, the precious MPs, the one who said that Erdogan... he had a statement: "Democracy is a tool for me, it can't be a goal." Can a person who's a tool for democracy be a Democrat? His respect for democracy? What does secularism mean, sir? One cannot be both religious and secular, he says. Is that a thing to say? That's what's on your mind. He says: "The government belongs to the people without condition" on the stand; no, sir, the sovereignty is not for the people without a condition, it is for God. When he accepts the presidential system tomorrow, he will say, "The government is not unconditional; it is not for God; it is for his nation; it is for him; and when he says, "When he says it, it is for his people," he will probably go to a psychologist's examination." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, look, dear MPs, the state of the Republic of Turkey is being asked to be brought down along with Erdoğan and Abdullah Gül. How do you want to be taken down? For once, the Turkish Armed Forces are being wiped out. They invited the American general who put a bag over the armed forces and met it with red carpets. Within NATO, the Turkish navy took in all of the navy's military commanders because the navy opposed the effort to take control of the Black Sea from Turkish commanders to other commanders in NATO, and also because it prevented its search for oil within the southern Cypriot borders. Now, look, in a country, a government that thinks about its homeland, loves its people, protects the dignity of the state, does that put such a despicable person on top of its head? That means something. When Erdogan came to power for the first time, he was a coward in 2001, in 2002, he went to the American authorities and told them to bring me together with this Chief of Staff, and then, when he was a coward, we look at it now. Now, there is no law left in your reign, no justice left, no honesty left; the theft is going as far as it can go, the corruption is going.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0025par0276	You got your answer here yesterday.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0024par0277	Now, yesterday, Erdoğan here says that our mayor of Kayseri has received compensation from you. Have you studied the allegations we've made about the Mayor of Kayseri? No. They've given their allies an acquittal, the judges are suing, the judges are afraid, they're giving you compensation. He also opened four compensations for me, and he won three, and now one of them is on trial. Yohu Tayyip, do I have to take care of your kids? I'm giving scholarships to college kids now. Well, you'd have a conscience. That's enough! You're already taking the money all over the place, and... well, at least don't make a claim on us. Now, valued lawmakers, look, one of the things that this government does... is, for some reason, the Undersecretary of MIT is very protective. I don't know what's wrong with that. Look, he took the GES facilities from the General Staff and gave them to the General Staff. You know what happened after that? Why did he take them? Why did he give them to me? He says: "I am the only picker. You are the only picker. But when I took the intelligence units from the Joint Chiefs of Staff and gave them to the MIT, the MIT did not arrive at the army in time for the army to be in trouble this time -- that's how I understand it -- that's how they got the intelligence information in there. Look, there were 27 martyrs in Hakkari in one day. And people think that these 27 soldiers were actually martyrs for their country. No, sir, it was for AKP's whims. Why do you give information, intelligence, if the Joint Chiefs himself don't use it there in time? Explain one reason. They say, "Sir, I am in charge." Will you be in charge? Recep Erdogan is a frightened man. He says, "Let me listen to everyone. You listen to everyone, but, brother, what is your power, what is your talent?" You're here... now, he doesn't like the PM, and I'll tell my master, he doesn't like the presidency. He says: "I will have all the authority, and I will appoint all the people. " People can't afford everything, precious MPs. Now, it's said... sir, there's talk of law in Turkey. Yeah, there's got to be justice independence to talk about law. Now, if you give the judges fear, which judge will decide against you after that? The tenders... the corruption is going as far as it can go. That's where Mr. Ahmet is laughing. We're reviewing the CSI Commission. Now, there are so many corruptions in the KİT... in Italy, for example... look, Turkey is opening a place in a city of Italy, where its costs are 25m euros a year, friends, general expenses... where is this taken from? Now, we've come across a budget, this budget is not clear, there's no audit. Mr. Recep has appointed his fellow bureaucrats and fellow bureaucrats to red tape, and they... the poor poor poor poor man, with his money cut off from his bread, where are they going? Look, he's making these tenders, and I'll tell you the simplest deal: guys, this fast train project has the proper facilities for the State Railroad, this travers factory, that makes the traverses. They didn't build the traverse of this State Railroad, I'll tell my master. They built a private travers factory in Erdogan's in-law. They pay 150 trillion a year. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, would that be possible? I mean, it's all about the allies, unfortunately, the resources. Now, one of Turkey's biggest dangers now is the Syrian issue. Everyone in their right mind should ask: Why have we come to the stage of war with Syria, my friends? Why are we here? Right now, we're on the verge of a war with Syria at any moment. Why is that? Recep Erdogan's whim. Look, it's in the papers today; sir, 200 people from Al Qaeda are going to Hatay by Turkish Airlines, where they're put in private cars, they're going to Syria. Gee, guys, I mean, if something like this were to happen to us, if another country were to make such a hostile move on us, wouldn't we be able to resist it? Here's the thing: Recep Erdogan is trying to make a war, so he doesn't dare. And when the war breaks, he'll declare a state of emergency, and he can't trust the commanders because the commanders fear he'll let him in as an extraordinary commander. So a person in such a complex state of mind. But Turkey now has to reduce power today, so you have to bring it down. If not, Turkey will face terrible things tomorrow, you'll see. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So many institutions... how do we answer with nine minutes, each one of them big institutions? Here's the National Intelligence Agency, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, the Disasters, the games, the funny attitudes in these Disasters, all in the open, but how do we say this? The budget is already an imaginary budget. This imaginary budget can't help people.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0026par0287	People voted for us because they didn't believe you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0027par0288	Mr. Young, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0028par0289	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0027par0290	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0028par0291	In his speech, our Group President insulted our Prime Minister with unspeakable insults. I want to answer.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0029par0292	He didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0027par0293	Yeah, well, maybe we shouldn't start this. Here you go, in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0030par0297	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's not worth dealing with, and I know that.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0031par0299	Then why did you leave?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0032par0300	He didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0030par0301	Look, dear friends, now, we're discussing the budget. Less than nine minutes. For God's sake, what did you say about this budget in nine minutes? You think you can fool these people every time you're on the stand with mouthfuls of insults, slanders? People answer me every time. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister gave me the answer, and he gave me the answer to every single one of them. People are watching you, and they're watching us. Maybe here, I think, you should tell the Mayor of Kayseri, I think he'd be more comfortable if Mr. Kamer sent 10 pounds of sausage to Young. You're going to be slandering me so much, you're going to start a smear campaign, and then you're going to say, "Don't sue me." Look, dear friends, democracy is a tool. Yeah, I'm telling you, it's not just me, it's everybody. What is democracy a tool for? It is a tool for the welfare and happiness of this nation, this country. It's a tool, you should know that. If you don't get it, I don't think you have a right to talk about democracy, politics. Second, a man who is not afraid of God, nor ashamed of his servant, says, "This is for God, nor for your people, nor for me." No one can say that except a man who has no fear of God, and has no shame on his servant, and no one can say that except such a man. Shame, shame! It's a shame. Be afraid of God, and be ashamed of men!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0033par0304	I wonder how you're gonna tie it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0030par0305	Again, NATO, the Turkish Armed Forces, all the institutions that I know of were here -- pardon me -- and whatever came into his mouth, he counted all his insults. You should know that Erdogan was brave yesterday and brave today. With his courage, he received 50 percent of the vote, and with his courage, Turkey moved him from where he took it to where you couldn't even imagine. Turkey has brought it to one of the great, powerful, leading countries in the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You wouldn't understand! But by causing these insults...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0034par0309	Mr. Aydın, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0030par0310	You say theft, corruption, but as they say, the thief thinks everyone is a thief...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0034par0312	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0035par0313	Mr. President, he picked on me. He said: "He is not worthy to be answered. I am a parliamentary speaker.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0036par0314	Well, you are!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0035par0315	He twisted my other words. If you'll excuse me, sir, I'll answer.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0036par0316	He told the truth, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0037par0317	Mr. Young, has he insulted you?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0035par0318	Yes, I do, sir. I guess you didn't listen, he said...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0037par0320	Just a minute, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0038par0321	He said it was not worth answering.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0037par0322	Wait... why are you yelling? I'm asking you, I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0323	No, I mean...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0037par0324	Come in, sir. Come in in in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0326	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, of course people who are not capable of understanding my speeches, as an expression of their ineptitude, say it's not worth answering. Anyway, it's the simplest way for people to go.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0040par0327	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0328	My speeches are well understood by the public.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0040par0329	The public understands us too!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0330	If you, Abdullah Gul and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, have courage, let's take a walk in these streets.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0040par0331	We're walking.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0332	Let's walk, no, let's walk. Look, Recep Erdogan and Abdullah Gul are protected by 5,000 police officers, friends, 5,000 police officers.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0040par0334	Don't be so dramatic!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0335	They are protected by armored vehicles brought from the United States. In this country, people can't find bread, and they're driving around in armored vehicles, millions of dollars in armored vehicles. There was a budget here yesterday -- for God's sake -- there were at least 200 or 300 guards in those halls. Who is he afraid of, friends of the ministers and the ministers? Is that a thing? Gentlemen, look, you still don't realize the evil that Recep Erdogan has done to this country, leading the country to disaster.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0041par0337	People are making decisions, people.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0338	This person, look, you know what he says to the journalist? The castle... the filth is flowing. He says to the journalists...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0042par0339	What's he saying?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0039par0340	Before this, the soldiers had put a collar around your neck, and I took it out of your neck. Now, international agencies have put collars around your neck. Well, Mr. Recep, I mean, if someone told you that Mr. Recep, they're wearing a collar around your neck. Would Mr. Recep agree? So don't say things to others that you won't accept. Mr. Recep doesn't know the meaning of the word coming out of his mouth. Let's teach him how to talk, where to behave. Obama showed him the bat, and then he went to America, and your man said... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Don't sweep it into the hole, take advantage of it... what should we do?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0043par0345	Mr. Young, thank you. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0044par0347	Mr. President, Mr. Orator is already talking about the same thing. He was right about what I said by talking about it again. I thank them, so I don't talk to them, I don't answer them.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit01spe0043par0348	Thank you. Congressmans, I'm calling for a 45-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0043par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue our first round of round talks with the Central Management Budget Bill in 2013 and the Central Management Computation Bill in 2011. The commission is in place. The government is in place. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Muhammad Bilal Macit, İstanbul MP. Mr. Macit, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] [[Continue]] 1) The presidency's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 EPISODE DETECTIVE EXPERIENCE [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministerial High Control Board 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Constitutional Court Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) President of the Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Court Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Prosecutor's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The Prime Minister's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Prime Ministerate's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2013 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2011 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0045par0045	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my EC PARTY Group on the President's budget in 2013. I wish you all a good day. The presidential office is considered the most important representation of our country. Information on the activities and position of a country's top office, the presidential office, in particular Turkey, actually means that we have knowledge of the prestige of that country. The physical conditions of institutions, technical infrastructure, institutional logo, architecture, and its activities tell a lot about politics and prestige. Maybe that's why in the developed countries of the world, the representational authorities have buildings that have become symbols. For example, when we say America, we think of the White House or the Kremlin in Russia or the House of Elysee in France. These buildings represent and inspire confidence in the state tradition of their country. In our country, the Çankaya Mansion represents the institutional identity of the state. In 2002, a paradigm change began to take place in Turkey, as the EC PARTY came to power. Here's the reflection of this community-seeking and community-based paradigm change to the presidency's office, which began in 2007 when Mr. Abdullah Gul was elected President. This change also shows itself with the physical and technical infrastructure of the Mansion, its activities, and its changes in these areas. Before 2007, there was a gray mansion portrait, where domestic and international invitations were limited due to wear-out, expenses. When we called it the Çankaya Mansion, we thought of one of the highest places in Ankara, behind the bars, hidden in the trees, and a distant image of the public. And the images used for the Chankaya Mansion were just cars with red plates coming in through the iron gates. Politically speaking, there was a status quo image that was struggling not to adapt to social change, but to ensure that there was no change. In fact, the best example of this change may have been that colleges were handing out free laptops to students, even in Internet cafes, and in the early 2007s, where there were fast Internet and Pentium computers, and in Chankaya Mansion, the Internet was limited to working hours and 256 computers. After 2007, the change of understanding began to manifest itself in the Mansion with its physical conditions, with its invitations. The technical infrastructures of the mansion, the hospitality facilities, were restored; the image work of the Mansion was accelerated, and the first digital archive with TSE documentation was created. In spite of old times when even the Internet was cut off in the name of savings, the office of the presidency was actively used on social media. Not only did red plates enter, but it became an institution for civil society representatives, journalists, ordinary citizens, businessmen and politicians. Travels, meetings, and receptions were organised not only in the national sense, but in the regional and global sense. The goal here was to develop important connections and relationships. These are steps that will expand the country's influence not only in the short term, but also in the middle and long term, and will strengthen its political power, economic well-being, and international prestige. To illustrate a few examples, our President made 38 visits abroad in 2012 and 7 abroad and hosted about 30 heads of state in our country, and according to a survey, the work of our President, indirectly developing $35 billion of business agreements. Here, the U.S. President's desk, the Oval Office, every citizen of the world with media access. We can do the same for Turkey. In parallel with the changes of the growing international arena, the growing international influence, the growing power of the country, we can also design the Chankaya Mansion in this sense. Finally, I think that any number that has been properly spent for a country's institutional identity will contribute to the country's presence, its international prestige, its economic well-being, all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0046par0052	Thank you, Mr. Macit. Mr. Nevzat Pakdil is the second speaker on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. Mr. Pakdil, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0047par0057	Mr. President, my esteemed congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the 2013 Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute you all. Honourable MPs, I'd like to mention here some of the work our Turkish Grand National Assembly will do. Right now, there are studies of the commission that all of our parties participated in regarding the constitution. As of now, there is no constitution made by civil representatives, MPs, and citizens in Turkey. In 2010 alone, there was a small part of the constitution that went public with the referendum decision of our Parliament. I'd like to point out that it's appropriate for this Parliament to bring a new constitution, a civil constitution, to our nation's approval, with all our parties' joint efforts, with all our parties' cooperation. A second issue is the amendments to Turkey's Grand National Assembly Interior. At the moment, indeed, in the study of legislation, the existing Civil Code contains major problems and seriously disrupts the work of the legislature, reducing the efficiency of our parliament. There is a study here that groups have done before, and there are now proposals of the Civil Charter, which the AK PARTY group's deputy presidents and some of our fellow lawmakers have submitted to parliament. It is our duty all of us to change our Civil Code, to work to make our Assembly more efficient, and I truly believe that we will. This way, we can make parliamentary work more careful, more efficient, more respectable, and there are tasks for each and every one of us in this matter, and that's not a very difficult thing to agree on. Here we have a great role as representatives of the nation, as our group's vice presidents, our Speakers and parliamentarians, and it's essential, and it has to be done and done. Another issue is the study of parliamentary diplomacy. In addition to the work done by competent presidents, the political work done by parliamentarians today is of great importance to those countries, just as the governments do or in some countries. On this occasion, I would like to share a moment with you: when a delegation from Canada visited the Turkish Parliamentary Union, it was the subject of a Canadian MP who had previously served as a deputy MP there, he says: "It was very common for us to accept the Armenian bill -- the massacre or genocide, with their description, whatever it was. He came in front of us and we voted for him. I voted positive, too. But then when I came to Turkey, when I realized some facts, when I looked into them, I realized that what we did wasn't right. This is no ordinary event. So it was left to historians, to be clear with the opinions that historians will provide. But as politicians, we've made this decision without knowing it, and we've passed. But today, at this point, at this point, I think what we're doing is not right. If such a thing were to come to our attention today, and I had been a member of parliament, I certainly would not have voted for it. Likewise, when that bill that the French Constitutional Court rejected came, all of our MPs, with the intensive parliamentary diplomacy made by lawmakers from each party, and also with great contributions from the government, with the contributions of NGOs, the French Constitutional Court cancelled and sent back the bill. This shows us very clearly how important parliamentary diplomacy is. Then we must fulfill that responsibility. In other words, lawmakers, everyone has a law, public officials have a law, NGOs have a law, but lawmakers don't currently have a right to financial and social rights. We all have our duties here. We don't have to work as members of an exceptional, elected organ in a status without law. As all lawmakers, each of us has to carry out its role in all groups, and in this period, we must make sure that lawmakers have their own unique law. Thank you all. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0048par0067	We're waiting as presidents.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0049par0068	Thank you, Mr. Pakdil. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the third speaker is Mr. Mustafa zucchini. Mr. Pumpkin, come in. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0050par0073	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in 2013. Before we begin with my words, I salute you all with the honor of our friends who have emigrated to eternity, with gratitude and gratitude and gratitude to our states and political men who have served under this roof until now, as the founder of our great Parliament, Gazi Mustafa Ataturk. Mr. President, my fellow MPs, it is our duty, of course, to give our Parliament the dignity it deserves to be the only Parliament to continue its fight for sovereignty at a time when we celebrate the 89th anniversary of our republic. You are well aware that this mission will only be achieved by capturing the level of complex civilization that Great Ataturk has set as a national target for all of us, and by contributing much more to the efforts at its point as a Parliament than it had in the past, it will meet the expectations of our people. A functioning democracy and the national will that lives in our Parliament is our greatest source of power. The power of our parliament will bring our country into the future as the power of our country and a well-working democracy. The 2013 budget we're going to make will help us use our Parliament more effectively and efficiently. As it is known, both our budget for 2011 and our budget for 2012 have been spent 70 per cent on routine spending, such as staff, health, and other important parts on improving the physical spaces of our Parliament, strengthening the infrastructure of knowledge and technology. In this scope, the construction of the planned parliamentary service building is rapidly under consideration of practices in modern parliaments so that our lawmakers can perform their constitutional and legal duties more effectively and efficiently. We plan to launch in the early months of 2013, God willing. The building, previously used by Guardian and Ceremony Battalion Command, has reached the end of continuing repairs and renovations. The roads, sidewalks, parks, and buildings within our campus have also been strengthened by the concrete system, which is used by disabled people, carrying ladders of honor. The main building had extensive work done to improve physical spaces, and necessary repairs and maintenance were done at the venues, the ceremony hall, the members' restaurant and kitchen, the General Assembly hall, the press conference hall, and other venues. The parking and service building, which is one of the biggest problems of staff and lawmakers, is intended to build a multi-story parking structure and a staff service building above it to meet the need. There will be about 25,000 square meters of parking and 8,000 square meters of staff service. There will also be an archive, education and congressional centre with 15,000 square metres of land on nearly 50 acres from the Privatisation Administration's presidency. To improve the working conditions of our MPs through the 2013 budget, our 2013 budget for improving the legislative process and quality has been offered at $773m, 60,000 dollars, with an increase of 18.7 per cent compared to the initial budget budget in 2012, with an increase of 651,252,000 TL. In our budget offer, personnel costs are 51 per cent, social security premiums are 6 per cent, goods and service costs are 14 per cent, current transfers are 10 per cent, capital costs are 19 per cent. Our coven also has an important number of visitors. According to visitor's reception hall data, the average person per day visits our Parliament. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been working hard in the 24th term, as they have been in the past. I wish that the 2013 budget, which has been meticulously prepared for financial discipline and structural reforms, should be good for our country and our nation, and I salute you with respect and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0051par0084	Thank you, Mr. Pumpkin. The next speaker is Mr. Alpaslan Kavalıoğlu, Nüğde MP on behalf of the AK PARTI Group. Mr. Kavalıoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0052par0088	Mr. President, members of the High Council, I find that the Court has made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the 2013 budget. I salute your high council. The Court, a high control institution that controls Turkey's Grand National Assembly, is a constitutional institution that takes its neutrality from its independence. The Court is equipped with the duty and authority to assess, judge, and final judgment those responsible for auditing public institutions' accounts and procedures, illegal procedures. Our Court, founded in 1862, under the name of the Court Ali-i Accounting, has a history of 150 years. Throughout its rooted history, it conducts its control, judiciary and other functions in the most efficient way, constantly developing in the framework of modern approaches and conditions of the day. The Court also works intensively to fulfill its duties and responsibilities with new regulations. Members of parliament, the Court aims to present audits and judicial services in the most efficient way, but is constantly focused on development and change. He is working with international high-management organisations to seek answers to global problems through joint and parallel controls. Given the new trends, he is conducting control and contributing to the development of control methods, not only as a national actor but also as a major international actor. The audit work that began in the previous years began with the adoption of Law 6085 has been completed, the control area log has been updated, the organizational work has been completed, the audit guides have been prepared. The secondary legislation proposed by Law 6085 has been completed, the translation of international control standards into Turkish, educational activities have been organised, IT infrastructure has been launched, and the new Law of the Court has been translated into other languages. Regarding control activities, the current year-based control system has been changed, and the audit log has been updated. In addition, audit plans and programmes have been prepared, international audit studies, a declaration of compliance and auditing of political parties. It's very good for the nation to have all of this done. In the Court's 2013 financial year budget bid, the Court has 63 per cent of its funding, 9 per cent of its staff costs, 23% of its social security costs, 23 per cent of its goods and services transactions, and 5 per cent of its capital costs. The fact that 63% of this grant is a staff expense indicates that the services of the Court are of weight to human service. Our Court's greatest capital is credibility. In all his works, the Court is trying to produce reliable and correct jobs, independent and impartial. It is imperative that the Court of Public Resources be trusted and impartial, who supervises whether or not they are being spent in accordance with the law, the rules, the purposes, and those who fight against corruption and corruption. Members may be more fair, accountable, with the removal of factors that obstruct transparency and cause corruption in public, giving the Court a key task of increasing transparency and strengthening Anti-Corruption Strategy, which has been prepared by our government under the development of a more transparent and reliable understanding of governance. In the name of our parliament, therefore, the Court, which controls for the sake of the national will, is expected to best internalise scientific and technological developments and achieve a control capacity that will set an example for the world under international standards, so that it will strengthen our control work, which is our most important function after the law. With such opinions and thoughts, I wish you the best of the 2013 budget, and on behalf of myself and my group, I pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0053par0098	Thank you, Mr. Kavalıoğlu. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the next speaker is Yozgat MP Yusuf Başer. Here you go, Mr. Basher.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0054par0102	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the financial budget of the Constitutional Court in 2013, and I salute you all. Constitutional courts have been established in representational democracies to oversee political power in terms of basic rights and freedoms and to ensure that the legislative body behaves in accordance with the constitution. It makes sense that the Constitutional Court entered the Turkish legal system after the May 27th coup as a product of the 1961 Constitution and that its founding members were members of the High Court of Justice in Yassia. Unlike the modern world, we have constitutional courts at the head of custody structures designed to control, limit, and amplify national will. The constitutional courts, designed in advanced democracies to block the majority's judgment on the minority, have been charged against the nation and the will of the nation of a narrow bureaucratic oligarchic elite. In Turkey, from 1961 to 2010 constitutional referendum, the Constitutional Court's decisions and arguments have been made, it has seen that it has broken its legislative function, it has interfered with the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, it has controlled norms, and it has not been in charge of its constitutional authority, and has sometimes attempted to make its law by taking binding decisions, as in the case of the 367. The Constitutional Court has continued to be the most decisive actor within the political institution for many years, with its closures, political bans on political leaders, annulling constitutional amendments, and thus, bureaucratic oligarchy has been able to design politics and engage in politics. The Constitutional Court has sometimes been able to overturn the basic rules of arithmetic, while Turkey's legal history has been very controversial, and has been able to determine that seven members are even greater than 411 members. The Constitutional Court has narrowed down its political field by calling it "for the Turkish nation" and has emptied the political institution into an unauthorized and dependent body of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a sort of shield and sword against the people's will and the people's will of the bureaucratic oligarchy. Unlike the Supreme Court, which has based its legitimacy on the will of the people around the world, the Constitutional Court has led Turkey to deep economic and social crises and has been more focused on debates than ever before. Mr. President, with the Constitutional Court's amendment to the public appearance of the EC PARTI in 2010, the Constitutional Court has been restored to its duty to protect and protect the state of law, fundamental rights and freedoms, and the democratic system, and has been excluded from daily political debates by structural and functional changes in the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has been granted the right to an individual application so that the Court of Freedom can carry out its function, and the application of our citizens to the European Court of Human Rights and ultimately reduce the violation decisions made by our citizens. As the EC PARTY, we have opened the way for our citizens to seek their rights in the Constitutional Court, the court of the nation instead of the European Court of Human Rights. The EC PARTY did all this only to ensure that the rights violations, not only the savings of legislation and executive organs, but also the rights violations caused by judicial bodies who exercise sovereignty and are charged with protecting human dignity, remain unresolved. The individual application will help develop the constitutional judiciary, allowing the implementation of Turkey's basic rights and the difference of understanding in European Court of Human Rights decisions to be eliminated. The Constitutional Court has left the political institution unfunctioning, not as a authority that narrows down politics and nullifies the public's will, the EC PARTI has made it an upperjudgment that protects and protects basic rights and freedoms and the state of law. The Constitutional Court believes it will guide the executive and judicial bodies, especially with the freedom and pluralistic decisions that Turkish democracy and the legal state will provide as a fundamental actor, and I wish you all the best of the 2013 budget.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0055par0115	Thank you, Mr. Basher. And now on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Yehia Akman of Şanlıurfa. Mr. Akman, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0056par0119	Mr. President, Mr. Lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Supreme Court in 2013. I hereby salute your high council. Dear friends, before the AK PARTI powers, when the Supreme Court, the court, the court, the court, the concepts of the court, we heard a great deal of it, especially when we heard about judges and prosecutors, especially judges and prosecutors, who were caught between the wallet and conscience, who were mentioned for generations of cases that lasted, that they were being served in the halls under the steps of the courthouses, that they were being told of the archive rooms where the rats had circled; and again, they were tried to be served with broken materials and age typewriters. It's a real pleasure to see that none of this has been discussed today as we discuss the 2013 budget. Today, really, on the contrary, we can talk about our judges and prosecutors, whose rights have been improved as much as possible in Turkey's terms. In the same way, we can be very proud to say that the courthouse palaces have been opened in their name and that our judges and prosecutors have begun to serve in these palaces. Again, thanks to very modern systems such as UYAP, we can now say with pride that even a paper pen has begun to operate a forensic distribution system that is not often used. These are very good developments, but perhaps the most important development that crowns all of these developments -- Kanaatim -- was the relief of the partial constitutional amendment that we changed the outcome of the referendum on September 12, 2010. In particular, when we look at the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court is struggling with hundreds of thousands of cases a year, we have to say that the growing number of judges has increased from 250 to 387, and we observe that the number of apartments has begun to melt this number seriously. I think so, and I hope that with the presence of the court of law, the Supreme Court will have an easier way to be the court of law, which has been referred to as the Court of Justice since it was founded a hundred and forty-four years ago in the name of the Court of Justice. Because even in today's day, we all know that many of these cases are in serious need, that they can't be examined properly, that they can't be checked out, that they can't be checked out, and we all agree, but -- as I've said -- after the indictment courts come in, the burden of serious work has been reduced, and I believe that the Supreme Court will become a serious criminal court, and I hope it will. After that, we will no longer, perhaps today, talk about some of the differences between the Supreme Court agencies, which are sometimes criticised in the legal circles, and some of the different judicial contradictions. Again, with the referendum held in 2010, we can say that there was a very serious democratic climate in both the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court, while the number of members increased, with the change of their working styles, that these courts had actually achieved their original glory. With the right of personal application to the Constitutional Court recognised in Turkey, people now have the right to go to the highest authority, and I think -- as of this year, there will be a serious reduction in the number of lawsuits going to the European Court of Human Rights, and as a whole, our judgment will now come to a point where we are proud in every respect, and I hope the same way. With such feelings and thoughts, I, the Supreme Court, hope the budget will bring blessings to our entire nation, especially the Supreme Court community, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0057par0127	Thank you, Mr. Akman. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Mevlüt Akgün. Karaman MP. Mr. Akgun, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0058par0131	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Supreme Court's budget. I salute your high council. My dear friends, the basic guarantee of democratic law and human rights is independent and impartial. The main goal of judicial independence is to give a citizen the confidence and faith that justice will take place within the framework of its institutions and rules, free of any influence, governance, or direction. The existence of a State in a country, therefore, is one of the preconditions for being a state of law. In our country, the State Court is a high-management court assigned to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, an advisory and review authority. The court was founded in 1868 under the name of the State of Şura, and was made into a constitutional institution under the Constitution of 1924. High-management court in 1961 and 1982. He's in position. The court plays a protective and regulatory role for individuals and administration as judges and advisers. For this day, the Court consists of 15 apartments, including 14 cases, one office for consultation and study. My dear friends, as a high judicial body to date, the main problem of the State has been a rapidly increasing work burden over the years. Due to this problem, trials have been extended, and violations have been made by the European Court of Human Rights against Turkey. In addition, there were no doubts in the court that would undermine the sense of justice of the parties who were on trial, that would lower their trust in the judiciary, that would open the country's horizon. The Law No. 6110, which envisions a change in the State Department's Law for this problem and is published in the Official Journal of 14/2/2011, has been recorded with major improvements. With this law, two other administrative litigation agencies have been established in the State Department, allowing the negotiations to be carried out in each apartment with a pair of committees. 66 new members were appointed to the prosecution, thus strengthening the Court. The conclusion of the case files has been opened more quickly. In this context, members of the Council of State's Administrative Court have been elected for three years with a amendment known as the third judicial package. Thus, the board has become able to work every working day of the week, allowing hundreds of cases to reach a verdict. Furthermore, aside from the amendments mentioned, the new service building has been completed, the institution has been moved to the new service building and has begun its operation so that the trial process in the State can be conducted quickly and healthy. As a result of all these positive developments, the trial has accelerated. My dear friends, the new goal of our State should be to make legal and institutional arrangements that will allow the judicial process to work quickly, fair, safe and accurate in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law and the rule of law by continuing efforts to improve the quality of service. In addition, the development of alternative solutions to reduce the workload of the judiciary should be a priority in the new legal provisions. My dear friends, institutional independence is a prerequisite for fair and impartial trial in the face of legislation and especially execution. The constitutional and legal steps necessary by our government have been taken to free the judiciary from the influence of thinking that a political idea is a backyard and to restore its true independence. There's no question of the neutrality of an independent judiciary. The judge must first believe in law and justice, be careful with the powers the law has given him, refrain from restricting freedom by interpretation or comparison. In violation of constitutional rights, illegal procedures and decisions should not be protected or protected in the legal state, regardless of who comes. Administration and representation belong to the Chief Prosecutor's Office, which is independent of the judicial mission. With these thoughts, I wish the State's 2013 budget to be good, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0059par0144	Thank you, Mr. Akgun. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, Adana MP Mehmet Necati Çetinkaya is in charge. Mr. Cetinkaya, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0148	Mr. President, dear members of the High Council, before I address you on behalf of my group on behalf of the Prime Minister's budget, I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, from the day we founded the EC PARTY, our goal was the great Turkey target. Everyone is Republican, but since the November 3, 2002 elections... our Prime Minister was not even a member of parliament at the time, and he told the nation in the General Assembly Hall: "Our goal is to raise Turkey to the level of peaceful civilization. What was the level of civilization? In particular, I would like to remind my friends in opposition that in the 10th year of the republic, the great Ataturk: the supreme civilized quality and ability of Turk, forgotten, will rise as a new sun on the horizon of his horse, the future civilization. The whole point is to reach that goal of development and give birth to that sun, or else you will never be able to give birth to that sun with words. In order to achieve this goal, we put our day and day into the night as the AK PARTY power, and we set out in this way, saying, "We are on a long, fine road, day and night," and thinking that serving this nation is the greatest service, and thankfully...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0061par0150	So it was never done before the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0151	Listen, Governor, listen...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0061par0152	Wasn't it done before the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0153	Listen, look, you've been governor, you're my colleague, you've reached the virtue of listening.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0061par0154	Isn't that a shame? Isn't it a pity for you to deny your duty before the AK PARTY?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0155	Yes, in that great movement of civilization, I'm simply saying that I'm a member of this party. I am proud to say that today, at work, the success of serving that nation has been an envy to the world. Today's success in health has attracted even the President of the United States' interest and approved the same project in his Senate. I believe the opposition accepts and appreciates it in its own inner world. For that, I thank your inner self. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear friends, see, on that day, on November 3, 2002, when the evening election results came to light, our Prime Minister called out to the nation: "The destination is 15,000 kilometers double." Today, we have completed a double road of 16,380 kilometers. Today, there is a university in each province, and in addition, we have completed several universities in many provinces. We have now completed the second university in Adana, and we are preparing for the third foundation university. There is an airport with her. There is now an airport in 48 provinces. In addition to Çukurova Airport, we are currently building the Adana Çukurova regional airport. When we build Adana, Mersin and Osmaniye airports, there will be a minimum of 5 million additions to tourism in a year because Turkey, with its tourism project in the south, is creating a new Antalya. Dear friends, the roller coaster was a dream.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0062par0159	Did you open the labor market in Adana?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0160	The roller coaster was a dream.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0063par0161	I'm the one who did the bidding.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0162	You made that dream come true with us. Thank God, today...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0063par0163	I did the bidding.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0164	...Ankara-Conya's express train...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0063par0165	I made his tender, Mr. Necati...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0166	Today, along with Ankara-Eskişehir-Istanbul's express train and Marmaray...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0063par0167	I made Marmaray, what are you saying?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0168	Marmaray is the miracle of an investment, of development. Could you ever imagine that? So today, along with Marmaray, we also perform the third tunnel of the throat, and the bridge of the throat.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0063par0169	Mr. Cetinkaya, you were dreaming, we were doing it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0170	We're building the third largest bridge in the world on the Gulf...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0063par0171	It's a speech, Mr. President. It's just a speech.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0172	...and thus descends between Istanbul and Izmir in three and a half hours. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I've been governor of those districts, and I know how much the citizen suffers.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0064par0176	Thank you, Mr. Cetinkaya.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0177	Dear friends, we have come to understand that this is not the place of your place, but the ability to come into the world! Then we will rise up and therefore give birth to the country's greatest sun of civilization, by the will of God, and say, "Long live the great civilisation!"
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0064par0179	Thank you, Mr. Çetinkaya, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0065par0180	You couldn't go to Southeast because of fear!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0181	With these feelings and thoughts, I salute the Grand Assembly and wish that our budget -- God willing -- would be the basis for the development of the great Turkey in 2023.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0064par0182	Mr. Cetinkaya, thank you, the next speaker...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0060par0183	My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0064par0185	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0066par0186	Mr. President, of course, Mr. Cetinkaya, while he expressed his enthusiasm, I think he was surprised by the date because we're the ones who tendered the Ankara-Istanbul fast train contract in Ankara-Eskişehir, we're the ones who got the loan, and we're the tender. We are also the ones who received Marmaray's loan and made the tender. So, I believe, Mr. Çetinkaya, at the time, we were carrying out what they said.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0067par0187	Not as a high-speed train.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0066par0188	And we thank them, of course, for stepping in that direction, but let them continue to follow the vision of the National Party of Action.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0068par0189	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0069par0190	Mr. President, Mr. Çetinkaya is the Adana MP. Tell me about the fast train in Adana! What happened to Adana, Mr. Çetinkaya? Adana expects your services.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0068par0192	Now, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the next speaker is Mr. Hilmi Bilgin, Sivas MP. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. Scholar, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0070par0195	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency as part of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the National Intelligence Agency was founded on July 25, 1965 by Law No. 644 for the first time in order to meet the state's need for intelligence, to gather information on all matters concerning the preparation of the state's national security policy. The National Intelligence Agency carried out its activities in accordance with Law 644 for nearly 19 years, with the need for a new legal arrangement, issued State Intelligence Services No. 2937 and the National Intelligence Service Act on November 1, 1983, and the law was adopted on January 1, 1984 and is still in effect with various changes. The main task of the National Intelligence Agency is to report to the authorities on time by detecting domestic and external threats to our national security. The National Intelligence Agency, as stated in Law 2937, provides national security information on existing and external activities, against the indivisible integrity of the Republic of Turkey's country and nation, its existence, its independence and security, as well as its elements that constitute constitutional order and national power, and delivers this information to relevant institutions and organisations, particularly the President and the Prime Minister. Our country is the world's most strategic country in terms of historical, geographical, human and natural resources. Our country's strategic weight has increased with the end of the Cold War period. In our country's territory, terrorism, internal conflicts, wars have never been taken away. In the world where global conflicts and threats have become more dangerous and more complex, both the need for intelligence services and the importance of intelligence services are increasing. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have given special attention to the security of our state and nation, our state and our nation, the protection of our current and future national interests, the strengthening of our country's political activity in the world, and the strengthening of the National Intelligence Agency's domestic and external threats to our country, starting in 2002. It is a priority for our country to be able to maintain its presence safely in the 21st century, to overcome information intended to be a leading country in its region and in the world, to create strategic intelligence networks that have been shaped according to national interests, to develop deep information about existing and possible areas of trouble, and to create dynamic staff and units that can based on these information to plan for the strategic future, and to transform this plan into implementation policies. This is a renewed vision of the National Intelligence Agency increasing its quality of human resources, while increasing its capacity in technical and physical terms. With renewed vision, qualified personnel profiles and advanced technical opportunities, the National Intelligence Agency has risen to a stable position among its international counterparts. In order for the National Intelligence Agency to continue its activities in line with its renewed vision and continue to increase technical resources in line with the developing conditions of the day, it is imperative that sufficient budget opportunities be recognised, a necessity. This is the understanding that our government has always given the national intelligence agency budgets, budgets, and will continue to give. The National Intelligence Agency's budget for 2013 was estimated to be $995m, 560,000, up by about 30 per cent, according to the 2012 budget. Dear lawmakers, I congratulate the members of the National Intelligence Agency, especially our Undersecretary of MIT, who, from the day it was founded, worked hard to make sacrifices for the safety and interests of our country, and were proud of our nation's successful services. As I hereby complete my words, I wish you all the best and the best of the 2013 budget to our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0071par0205	Thank you, Mr. Hilmi Bilgin. Now, on behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the last speaker is Ankara MP Fatih Şahin. Mr. Hawk, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0072par0209	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the National Security Council General Secretaryship of the 2013 Financial Year Budget Bill. I salute you all. The concept of national security and such structures as the National Security Agency are mainly concepts and institutions produced in terms of the new concept of defence and security in NATO countries during the cold war period after World War II. These concepts and institutions, the product of the Cold War era, have a different and original historical background in Turkey. In 1949, a council of military-military karma was established under the National Defence High Council, but by 1960 we see that the council was not very active in politics, and that it was not very involved in civil politics. When those who did the May 27 coup had to leave power to civilians after a while, how can we use power even if we are not in power? The concept of national security in both the Constitution and the laws has resulted in a very vague and broad interpretation of the concept, as well as the structure and composition of the National Security Council, as well as the actual executive body of the board. It is possible to say that a period of actual power in Turkey is on the National Security Council, as we consider the membership composition, along with its organization, the law of the organization, and its interests. This board, which spoke and decided in every area until the protection of the ports, how to wear its headscarf, was the most concrete example of the custody system and bureaucratic oligarchy. Under normal circumstances, military and civil bureaucrats need to consult on political power in order to ensure the country's defence and security, but we have developed the concept of national security as a concept that narrows down the political field, completely encompasses the area of civil politics, even rivals politics. The National Security Council, in this sense, has come to the attention of the actual legislature, which sometimes gives the Parliament instructions, and sometimes as a guardianship authority above the Council of Ministers. The 28 February process was the clearest example of civil policy intervention by bureaucratic oligarchy through the National Security Council. The building, which imposed a decision on the Council of Ministers, imposed a draft law on parliament, forced the Council of Ministers to resign if necessary, has sometimes replaced the duties and powers of the Council of Ministers. I think it's possible to say that in this country, for many years, power actually defaults on the National Security Council. The composition of the National Security Council has changed and has become civilly weighted as a result of amendments to legislation during the EC PARTY administration. The executive authority of the board has been revoked. Conditions have been set to prevent organisation across the country and to transform it into a real advisory body. Thus, the board has become literally a consultation and consultation body that meets the needs of a representative democracy. The National Security Council and the Secretary General of the National Security Board are no longer an instrument of power without votes from the public. These institutions are not guarantees that someone's ideas will remain in power forever. These organs and organizations, as in the entire civilized world, are under the command and control of the political power responsible for the people. In democracies, it is imperative that political authorities benefit from the opinions of soldiers and civil bureaucrats and experts and that decisionmakers be equipped with necessary and adequate information in the decision-making process. In this context, it is inevitable that there is an body responsible for providing constitutionally national security and under the authority of the Council of Ministers to collect and produce the necessary information. In this sense, the National Security Council is a very necessary and useful institution for democratic systems, but on the condition that you act in accordance with the rhetoric and spirit of representational democracy -- in real sense, a consultation body -- and that the political power can produce the necessary information according to its directives and instructions. Today, the National Security Council, thankfully, is close to this structure, above the Council of Ministers, not in front of parliament, is working under the will of the nation. For these reasons, we, the EC PARTY Group, find it appropriate to vote in favour of the International Security Council General Secretaryship of the 2013 Financial Budget Bill. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0073par0219	Mr. Hawk, thank you. Speaking for the AK PARTY is complete. Now on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Mr. Sırrı Sakık. Mr. Sakık, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0074par0225	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. I would like to share with you the opinion of the Peace and Democracy Party on the presidency, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Prime Ministership, the Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency, the General Secretary-General of the National Security Council institutions. If only our friends had come and listened to us in Parliament during these important talks, what do we mean, what do we say, what our demands are, if they had listened to us, we would have been happy. Now, of course, we don't usually talk about numbers like that, and it's not really our thing, but budgets are important. Budgets have been drawn up for many years. We constantly hope that budgets will serve peace on this bench, but, no matter what, budgets in this country have served constant wars, constant conflicts. I will make my wish and wish speak again. I wish, I hope, that the budget for 2013, in the Middle East, and in our country, would be a budget to transform war clouds, winds of war into breezes of peace, for that reason. Mr. President, dear friends, from the day of our President's election to today, we are all in public witnessing his positive messages to the public. One of the main problems of this country is that we have a brotherhood project that proposes to solve the Kurdish problem, that there will be good things, that differences are our wealth. And so far, from the day he was elected, we are a group that is constantly looking out for the President, protecting the President, caring for the people's will. And when the president was wronged, we were the first to stand up in this Parliament and stand up against it. Look, in the budgets of 2008, 2009, 2010, when we specifically said that Mr. President was under siege at Çankaya, there was not a single voice from the AKP Group, and there was nothing that came out of the other opposition groups, and we had seen something, and they had surrounded the President in Kashk. In our talks at that time, we expressed here that the wife and children of Mr. President were not admitted to the Çankaya Mansion, but none of them, at this point, have shown any sensitivity. The last time we were confirmed, there was an explanation for Hayrünsa Gül Ma'am. He says: "There were several doors to the corner. Official ceremonies, formal welcomes were held from Gate A. If the visiting president has arrived with his wife, our President and his wife will meet together. It was like that until we came in, but after we came in, this app was applied to us differently; they wouldn't let us through Gate A, they would let us through Gate C. What is door C? It's the other door. They'd take it from there, and that's the biggest injustice to us and to women in Turkey. She's actually being very kind, but she's telling us maybe part c of what's going on, but she's not telling me part a, part b. And what did we say on that date? Why is the President's wife and children absent from the Mansion? The news immediately from your group, they tried to talk him out of it: no such thing, ma'am, the mansion is being renovated. See, 2007 and today, Mr. President, his wife and children still reside in the Foreign House because they didn't allow the President, his wife, and his children to live there. It was so clear, and we were the ones who took care of it. It's a positive opening at this point, but these doors should not only be opened for the President, his wife and children, but all doors must be opened for the rest of this country. So at the October 29th celebrations, a reception should not only be about freedom of the turban; it must be done, as well as the rights of other peoples. And it's very important that Mr. President recently put the State Control Board into action, especially in the case of Sivas. It's our call from here. He's not on trial, and the trial didn't go as far as barley in Roboski's cases. For him, it is the last port of refuge, a call to our President. You, please assign the State Board of Control to Roboski, because as long as the wounds of Roboski are not covered, then Roboski will be the Jerusalem of the Kurds, and you will know that. Mr. President, dear friends, I'd like to start by saying thank you to the Speaker. So this figure that we've known for years has often been a political figure, feeding on nationalist veins like this. We thank him for his compromise attitude after he was elected, for his efforts at the Constitutional Compromise Commission, for some legal changes, and even for his efforts to get the MPs their freedom, and we hope and hope that these efforts will continue. Dear friends, in our view, as we evaluate these things in unity, here, against us, against Kurds and other peoples, a colonial law against different groups of beliefs dominates this country, distinguishing others. In the past, while you've been suffering from this legal system, by turning this legal system into a front and back garden, the law has persecuted the people here. Now, I'm going to give you a few examples. This, in particular the Prime Minister's recent statement of Parliament, is to declare that, in fact, if this Parliament is to declare it, this Parliament must first return and take a stand against injustice. Look, civil society organizations, jurisprudences wearing pushi, putting up banners, pulling up rope, speaking Kurdish, writing, politics, lawyers are in prison today. You, your government, just a few days ago, the funeral of two dead guerrillas... was desecrated, even by order of the Home Secretary, by order of your government, by order of our funerals, by the gas bombs. Nowhere in the world, in any law, in any religion, there is no disrespect for a funeral, but there is one in our country. The judiciary does not seek the murderers of Kurdish children, whose names I count; the judiciary does not seek the killers of those who slaughtered 34 innocent Kurds in Roboski. What's he doing? What happens when you wait for the identity of the massacrers in Roboski, waiting for them to come to trial? The Parliament awards the Honourable Service Medal to the man who was previously the General Manager of Punishment and Inquisitorship in the operation "Back to Life", which resulted in the death of 32 people. Look, it's given during this House and your reign. The Turkish Armed Forces, who are responsible and charged with the massacre of 34 people in Roboski, are again giving them the highest honorary medals. I don't understand how honorable these medals are. So someone is going to be responsible for the deaths of 32 people during their term -- you're doing duty -- this Parliament will give it a medal, and Mehmet Erten, who is in charge of the first degree at Roboski. -- such claims -- they're giving it a medal by the Turkish Armed Forces. That's our idea of colonial law. So when this country is designing law, if it doesn't open its doors to other peoples, if it doesn't open the doors to the law, we can't have peace. Look what this Parliament has done. This Parliament has not made an effort to free eight MPs in prison. But on September 12th, this Parliament liberated the murderers who strangled and slaughtered seven TIP-Level students overnight. Now, those of you who turn to us, turn around and look in the mirror. Who you set free, who you made those decisions for. If Parliament is going to make a move, it must first turn around and look at itself in the mirror. One of those killers murdered two mayors of the Republican People's Party. Seven workers... this Parliament cleared those who slaughtered young people from the Turkish Workers' Party. Now, for him, if this Parliament is really going to make an effort to resolve the problems, you must immediately bring a social compromise, the third judicial package, around him, not a protective understanding that protects the killers, but clearly do so at once. Look, it's not just the law, it's you as a system, you're segregating, you're monogamous, you're racist. All of Turkey's institutions, I've looked at them one by one, there are 17 members in the Constitutional Court, one of which you can't find Kurds, Alevi and opposition members. No matter how many members there are on the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, one Kurd, Alevi, you will find no opposition. You will not find a Kurd in the Court, in the Court, in the Supreme Election Council, under the undersecretary of any ministry; you will not find him in the presidency, you will not find him in the prime minister's office, you will not find Alevi.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0075par0236	He's not even in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0074par0237	You look for Turk and Sunni. I'm talking to the documents, the documents, I don't have the crescents. If you act like this, that's colonial understanding. If you, see -- let me read it, from Kayseri to Hatay, to the army, to the tens of them general managers, I don't know, one by one, and I've looked into it, and you're talking about law -- first, you're going to eliminate your law, you're going to remove it. We don't know that kind of law. If you are so cruel to Kurds and opponents, we do not know the Constitution or the laws against us. Such a practice is not available anywhere in the world, and it's been applied to us for years, and it's been implemented. You won't find one Kurd in the General Staff, you'll turn around and you'll say, "Oh, my God, what do these Kurds want? Now let me tell you, my friends: Kurds want to be equal with you, they want to live with you, so Kurds want to have all the rights the Prime Minister has. We don't want a law to look at this place upside down while we're sitting here. We all want equal law, and history has given you an opportunity, and life has given you an opportunity; see, in a place where there are serious conflicts and fights in the Middle East, history offers you an opportunity. Take advantage of this historic opportunity. What do you do? Come, make peace with the Kurds of Turkey, come... how did you once stand as a whole against developments in southern Kurdistan, saying that our red lines were going, so you were going, so that in the Central Government, Mr. Celal Talabani would not be the President? You were tearing up the apocalypse and then you went against Mesut Barzani and the government there and supported the Turkmens in Kerkuk, and supported the Arabs in Musul, and those lines you call our red lines, and then what did you do? You went, and you sat down with my presence in south Kurdistan -- that was the right way -- and you made a $12 billion deal. Is that bad? No. Do the Kurds there hurt you? No. So, why is it so hard to make peace with your own Kurd now and become a serious state in the Middle East, a stronger state? It's not that hard, but you've made us victims of politics, and you've done everything you could to get us elected president. Look what you did today. Today, in your media, semi-official newspapers, our co-Chair Gülten is being taken to the mountain from the KCK. There is no such thing, brother, there is no such thing. Don't release jurisdiction and law enforcement on us with news from Asparagas. It's a dead end, that way you won't get results. Don't block the democratic channels, don't do this by ruling us out. If you are truly friendly with the Kurds in Syria, Syria is as important as South Kurdistan, you can build bridges with friendship from here and create the law that you created with them in southern Kurdistan, but with a struggle that began here first... start in Oslo, and then re-open the process that you suspended, and don't be afraid of that. Oslo talks were important, but the Kurdish issue should not only be perceived as a problem of law and justice; the Kurdish issue is a problem of rights, law and justice. It is not right to approach the Kurdish problem only with intelligence units. Yes, I know there are important people in it, including MIT. By God, I know people from the political world who are far ahead, and I believe that they have a conscience, and that they should be involved in the process, but that's the mechanism that matters. So there's no reason why the Kurdish problem can't be solved if you see Parliament here as a shooting address, so if you don't block the democratic channels, then there's no reason why the Kurdish problem can't be solved. Look, let me tell you something else. The Prime Minister told me yesterday. It says here: "We stood up against April 27th. You've done well, there's nothing bad here, but there's April 27th, February 28th." Well, there's a month between February 28th and April, and it's called March. Well, there was a coup here in March, so the soldiers gave instructions, and the politicians carried it out. On February 28th, no one was arrested. We've all gone, we've had painful years, and we've gone, we've stayed in prisons. The Constitution has changed because we were arrested, or all the MPs who were in the Welfare Party at that time would have fallen. Because of the price we've paid, you've become deputy, you've become president, you've become president, but the Commission for Research on Impacts doesn't count as a human being, you're investigating the persecution policies against Kurds and you don't even think about it. Coming up, September 12th, March 12th, May 27th, he's investigating them all. May God tear down your house! Well, wasn't there a March 2nd coup? Those people were in prison for ten years, their parties were shut down, their MPs fell. Some of the MPs are out of the country right now. They're not here? They came there with the will of you and the people like us, and today they're abroad, but the Board of Investigations isn't even investigating these coups, and they don't even need that. Again, the Prime Minister had an explanation for Gaza at work. And my time is short, so... right, you did well, your peace effort in Gaza, but that's not a sign that you have a peaceful identity in the Middle East! I wish you had followed a peaceful policy in the Middle East. Here we go, there's hostility against Kurds. Bring them to life, but if you don't do it, we're all satisfied with peace in Gaza, preaching war on our own land, shouting war on our own land. Mr. Prime Minister says: "The year is not 1994. Yes, it is 1994, but I say in God's name, whatever the rejection and denial policies of the state in 1994, whatever the rejection and denial policies of the 1924 are, in terms of the Kurds, the year 2012, your denial and denial policies continue as a whole. From the founding of the Republic to this day, in shape, you say things from time to time, but it's not in law, it's not in democracy, it's not in the public. For him, the spirit of 1994, 2012, is found in the spirit of denial and denial of 1924. Now, for the last time, Roboski is a wound that won't close for us. Look, we'll all be in Roboski in a few days, and it's our duty to heal the wounds of Roboski families, for the sake of humanity, for the sake of Islam, for all of us. For us Kurds, especially for the families of Roboski, our home is a grave, our graves are a home. Every day, families wake up at dawn, they go to the cemetery with their children, they pray in the grave until nightfall, and for that, do not stand by the tyrant. You've been persecuted, too. We can all heal these wounds together, some conscience, some common sense. I wish you well again. I wish to thank you all for turning the winds over this country into a breeze of peace.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0076par0245	Thank you, Mr. Sakek. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the second speaker is Adana MP Murat Bozlak. Mr. Grizzly, please. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0077par0249	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Group on the budgets of the Supreme Court and Court, which are part of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill. I hereby salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers continue to maintain their place on the agenda in Turkey's issue of judicial independence. Although judicial independence has been adopted as a principle in the constitutional plane, the principle in practice does not fully respond. It's a reality where management has a serious impact and intervention on legislation and justice. The AKP government, unfortunately, did not have a different attitude towards politicizing the judiciary, using the power of power in its own interest. In the European Court of Human Rights, independence of the judiciary is defined as the court's failure to take orders from another person, especially the administration and the fact that the parties in the case are out of reach. Neutrality is explained as having no prejudice that will affect the case's resolution, especially if some of the courts or members of the court have no sense or interest in their favour or against them at the level of parties. Unfortunately, it is not possible to talk about a judiciary, independence and neutrality in Turkey that meets these criteria, and the judiciary is under the government's command. In front of the cameras, Mr. Prime Minister is able to look us in the eye and admit that he had instructed the judiciary, and we have spoken to the court regarding immunity, and the judgment will do it. In this case, can you talk about democracy, the principle of separation of forces, judicial independence and neutrality? According to the Constitution and Court's Law, the Court is tasked with overseeing all revenues and costs of the general and supplementary agencies and their property on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and finalizing the account and transactions of the responsible, and doing the audit, auditing, and binding of the laws. Again, according to our laws, the Court is neutral and independent, and the Court cannot be instructed. Yesterday, opposition parties filed strong objections to the Court's final accounts in 2011. Without this report, they claimed that the budget of 2013 would not be discussed. Have these claims from opposition parties come to fruition? No. Look how well we're moving on with our budget talks! Where there is no independence of justice, I find it unsupported to ask for such preconditions to be followed. The judiciary is not independent of the AKP (AKP) and the judiciary, which does not take the AKP seriously, is immediately taught the necessary lesson. Haven't we experienced this in this country? We've lived well. When prosecutors of special officials' heavy criminal courts were in a position that the AKP did not like, didn't the AKP eliminate these courts in one day and establish special district courts that would serve as a substitute? He did. In that case, it would be unnecessary to expect a report from the Court despite the AKP. As a result of the amendment to Court Law No. 6085, the honorable MPs have been completely unable to maintain control over Court, military and civilian institutions. The ruling party has significantly eliminated the control of public institutions by the Court through a late-night operation based on its numerical majority, and has also struck the principle of independence and neutrality of the Court. The Court's control areas have been expanded, but the amendment to Article 35 (Islamic Law), and the control authority of the auditors of the law, are incompatible with democratic standards, even further back from Law 832. With the amendment to performance control in the law, the AKP has excluded the Court's control of whether public resources are being used effectively, economically and efficiently. The Court's audit is limited to public institutions' operational reports, and the supervisors' duties are narrowed. Military institutions and organisations are among the public institutions in which the Court is obliged to supervise, but the Court's control of military expenditures has been further limited, unlike any other public enterprises under its supervision. As it is known, the Court is being appointed for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey while it is being audited by the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, and the Court's auditors do not need further permission from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to check at any institution, but the new Law does not foresee the control of the Army Aid Agency, or OYAK, which is subject to a special law. Since the Military Aid Agency is not subject to supervision under this law, Court auditors can control this institution, not by themselves, but by request of the Grand National Assembly Proclamation Proclamation Commission. On the other hand, inspectors are able to control any institution, including the Turkish Armed Forces, according to the policy established by the public administration, and cannot question whether they are actually meeting the purpose and the need. The issue of the transparency and accountability of military spending is as well as among the democratic criteria that must be met within the framework of Turkey's full membership talks with the European Union. Dear friends, unsupervised military expenditures are a significant amount within the budget due to restrictive provisions. According to the 2013 Budget Bill, Turkey's institutions responsible for security, security and intelligence increased by 16.2 per cent compared to 2012 to 45 billion 297m euros. With other sources not shown between budget numbers, this amount is actually much higher. The main reason why military spending is so high is because the Kurdish problem is not being resolved in democratic, peaceful ways. At a meeting he attended on February 28, 2010, Transport Minister Mr. Bululi Yıldırım stated that the state's military expenditures from the Kurdish issue's security solution were $1 trillion: if we hadn't spent this resource here, 15,000 24 classroom schools, 9,000 400 beds of full-bed education research hospitals, 200 Bosphorus Bridge, 120 Ataturk Dam and 450km divided roads. Here's the source for nothing, says the minister. Due to the lack of solution to the Kurdish problem, according to the minister's information, a trillion dollars was spent by 2010, but more importantly, more than 40,000 people were killed, 3500 villages were evacuated, 17,000 unsolved murders were committed, and nature was also destroyed. While our people await the solution of this problem from the Turkish Grand National Assembly, I regret that the Prime Minister's segregation and otherist attitude yesterday made me feel that as an individual, this Parliament is far from solving the Kurdish problem. Mr. Prime Minister, despite all prohibitive and restrictive provisions in the electoral laws, despite the 10 per cent Turkish threshold, on behalf of 36 parliamentarians who voted with independent candidates in the most negative conditions of 3 million votes, Mr. Co-Chair Gultan Kışanak, who stood on the stand representing the will of 3 million voters and expressed his views and watched the leaders of the other opposition parties after our Co-Chair have left the General Assembly hall to ignore his speech. In the past, soldiers were leaving the General Assembly hall because of the BDP people, and now, unfortunately, the Prime Minister is leaving. This attitude is not an attitude that will serve to solve Turkey's fundamental problem, the Kurdish problem. There is never peace in a place where the will of the people is not respected. I urge the Prime Minister to give up his attitude as soon as possible. The Supreme Court, along with other high courts, has been one of the most important ideological devices in the project of creating a single nation based on Turkish identity, where different identities and beliefs have been ignored and assimilated. Throughout the history of the entire republic, the Supreme Court considers itself a liability to the authoritarian, repressive and assimilationist policies of the state. The Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors, an institution tasked with the organisation of the state's judicial policies, plays a major role in the implementation of this function of the judiciary. The government changed the structure of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors and the high judiciary in the June 12th referendum. At the time, it was said that by this change the rule of rule of law would be passed on to practice by breaking bureaucratic and military custody, where the judiciary would be neutral and independent. However, at the coming stage, it is becoming increasingly clear that the constitutional referendum, which the government calls "reform," is nothing more than one of the groups fighting for power within the state's government's process of liquidating the other. Despotic, the manipulation of an authoritarian administration, the manipulation of someone else to replace it, the dissolution of the custody order, or to present it as a democratic new structure, has failed to convince anyone. As the new formation and the mindset of the judiciary and the state have been maintained, the judiciary has unfortunately been transformed into a single-voiced tool of pressure, where the power is clearly staffed. The Supreme Court has always been at odds with the principles of independence and neutrality of the judiciary. It is impossible for a judicial institution interacting with political power, military and civil bureaucracy, with the principle of judicial independence to be considered, and it is impossible for a high-judgment office to be neutral when it assumes its mission to protect the state. The Supreme Court, as in the past, has now signed decisions that have led to a clear violation of human rights, rather than immediately, of the cases where Kurds, Alevis, minorities, women are on their side. Women's murders are widely known in cases of violence and rape against women. The decision on Armenian, Greek, Suryanian foundations and Hrant Dink's decision has been used in our memory as a typical example of countless decisions against non-Muslims. Today, we see that this approach has become a rule, especially in cases where Kurds are tried. The murders committed by the state's security forces have been placed under a complete umbrella of punishment by the Supreme Court's verdicts and convictions. In the state's security forces, the perpetrators of the murders committed against civilians, teenagers, children have not been punished. The Kurdish issue, any statement on the protection of Kurdish identity, is being made openly in violation of the Supreme Court's standards of universal human rights, and the owners of testimony are being punished. The Supreme Court has purposely interpreted the laws that the law insists on describing as flexible and vague, leaving all laws and human rights rules aside to shut down all political activities for Kurds. In cases related to the Kurdish issue, almost all Kurdish political activities are confined to the definition of an illegal organisation with the decision and conviction of the Supreme Court. The number of Kurds in prison with various engineering studies used as instruments of the judiciary has reached untenable sizes in an unprecedented way in the world. It's safe to say that one of the most important share holders of the Kurdish problem is the Supreme Court. Dear lawmakers, such as the Supreme Court, make decisions about Kurds, non-Muslims and Alevi decisions that violate both civil law and international law that violate the rule of law. Confirming the decision of BDP municipalities to be relieved of duty, Danıştay has made it a rule to reject appeals in cases filed in Kurdish as well as in the municipal activities of our mayors, as well as in Kurdish, with Kurdish names given to parks, streets, and streets. The court's decisions regarding different groups of beliefs are already in violation of human rights. The same can be seen in his decisions regarding compulsory religious lessons. In cases relating to dismissal, the State has also signed decisions that deny human rights, which make the state superior to the rights of citizens. Dear lawmakers say we will vote with respect to a budget free of transparency, which serves peace, justice, brotherhood, in a Turkey wish where the judiciary is independent and neutral. (Applause from BDP rows)
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0078par0266	Mr. Grizzly, thank you. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, the third speaker is Mr. Altan Tan, Diyarbakır MP. Mr. Tan, come in. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0079par0271	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, on behalf of my party, I would like to give you my opinion on the budget of the Constitutional Court. Congressmans, I'd like to focus first on the purpose of the Constitutional Court. A member of parliament who had spoken before me made a brief description, and I agree with that definition: "Take politics into the reins of the law." Well, here is the unconditional nation of our Parliament right behind us. It's right above the bench of the Speaker of Parliament, and it's right behind me. Then I'd like to say a few words about what it's like to clamp down on a coven under the sovereignty of the nation. First of all, we're told things that, like the Constitutional Court, many institutions and institutions of the state have existed since the early days of history, and if they don't, there's an apocalypse. Very clearly, as you all know, there is no Constitutional Court in Turkey until the period of May 27, 1960, when the Constitution was issued. Not during Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, not during Ismet Inönu, not during Celal Bayar, not in any of these times such an institution is in the nature of the Republic of Turkey. So, what happened after that, a trial like this was needed? There are numerous articles, articles, books, opinions. I don't want to count on you here one by one. That's the law's grip on politics. The sentence sums it all up. The Constitutional Court was founded on April 22, 1962, and its official start date is 28/8/1962, and today, in many countries around the world, there is no Supreme Court. Now, after we make this brief brief, let's come to the Supreme Court's ceremony after it's established. So, what are the powers of the Supreme Court? Such an institution was established, and again -- you know -- along with the 1961 Constitution, a Republic Senate was established in Turkey. Most of the younger generations don't know what the Republic Senate is. This Republic Senate was also abolished, eliminated, and terminated by the coup d'état of September 12, 1980. Now, he establishes the Senate of the Republic, the will of the coup after 1961, and that's not enough, he establishes a Supreme Court to control them. What are the powers of the Supreme Court? The Supreme Court's main authority is to check whether the laws made are in accordance with the existing constitution -- the way it is done -- in order and in essence. So that's all right, so I'm calling the purpose of the nail-in-the-nail thing, or I'm not saying that the Constitutional Court exists. I'm not saying that it's okay. What's his authority on constitutional amendments? In constitutional amendments, the authority is simply to check whether this constitutional amendment has been done correctly, or, basically, you can make this constitutional amendment, you can't do it, you don't have an authority or the authority to make a fundamental comment, but you know what's happened. During the Republic period, 61 political parties have been closed so far, 25 of which have been closed by the Constitutional Court. It includes religious, nationalist, leftist, right-wing, Kurdish, socialist, whatever you can think of, political parties who get votes from all sides, every ideology and every base, who want their votes. Again, in this way, when describing the Constitutional Court, the following phrases of an AK PARTI friend of ours are interesting: the concept of a difficult oligarchical governance, the epiphany of bureaucratic oligarchy. Today, in response to the Constitutional Court's -- this understanding that he blamed -- he chose to continue this structure in the same way by simply replacing his members, appointing new members as his successors. As if a socialist party MP was speaking, for a moment, I assumed myself in such an environment, but unfortunately, at some point, there is no serious change in the position of this Supreme Court. The closure of political parties is again under the authority of political parties, as well as the financial control of political parties. And in these comments, for example, there was a 367 decision in the past period. Also, the decision of the Parliament to lift the ban on the headscarf, which was decided by 411 votes, and, unfortunately, another unfortunate hand, with the headline of the mind, has been raised to 411 hands of chaos. There is a decision again in line with the mind that has disregarded the will of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. So when we look at his past, what this Constitutional Court wants to do, why there is, who's in service; it's very difficult to understand, in quotes, but basically, if you look at what he's doing, it's very, very clear. There's also a lie in all these interferences and decisions that transcend your authority: there's an institutional philosophy of the republic, sir. Here's what the founding will said, the founding will formed it, and in accordance with the philosophy of the founding will, it has a obligation to interpret these substances like this, like this. There's a lie. Dear friends, I would like to present to you one lie: there is a 1924 Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. From 1924 to 1928, the constitution of that founding will is the religion of the state, Islam, until 1928. The official introduction of secularism to the Constitution is 1937. It's just a reminder. As for the political party closure criteria. Today, when a political party talks about the state system, the elected governor, again the bells ring, but the same Constitutional Court has a ruling about the KADEP party, which is considered to be a reason to be shut down, or, again, that there can be no reason to shut down these ideas, for democratic autonomy, for the increased authority of democratic governance, for the regional administration, for the state system, for the elected governor. I mean, how does he act in these decisions, how does he decide, what criteria does he apply? He's just applying the criteria for his own pleasure. Another important thing is, the Constitutional Court, you know, this new representation situation that's been raised to 17 members, what's it based on? Now, with offers of different institutions and institutions -- not counting them one by one -- my time is very limited -- these 17 members are ultimately defined by the President, and three by the proposals of these institutions and organizations -- but when we look at other countries -- we see that the United States of America, Germany, France, France, Spain, Italy -- is very different from the elections here, where the elected ones are much more dominant. For example, in Germany, eight members are being thrown out by the Federal Assembly and eight by the Federal Council. Again, three members in France are appointed by the President, three by the Speaker of Parliament, and three by the Senate President. Now, you, the government, is the unconditional condition of the nation. When you say, "There's no place for this to go" when you try to put a handcuff on it again. You have to trust your own coven, we have to trust our coven. So another institution, another institution on the institution, another institution on it... so, who's going to determine them? If you say "politician owner" again, then why do you need it? Here, Congress is already here, in the political community, there is no need for the Constitutional Court in that sense, because the House has its own Constitutional Commission, the Justice Commission, many commissions. All these changes and practices are actually able to be done by Parliament. If there's abuse, it's the same for those assigned on different occasions. Dear friends, Turkey urgently needs judicial reform. He's done a health reform with Turkey's pros, minuses, it's a separate issue, but it's an urgent education reform and judicial reform... and I'm not getting into education because it's about judgment. Today, 20,000 of the 120,000 applications made to the European Court of Human Rights belong to Turkey alone. Even that makes our situation clear and clear. Today, there are thousands of people who have been arrested, detained, held, in prison for three and a half years from many cases, including the KCK case, who have yet to make a statement, who can't even make a statement; such a legal scandal, no disgrace. Certainly, from the Constitutional Court to the bottom, Turkey urgently needs a legal reform. The new constitution is essential. On December 15, 2007, at the latest, our new constitutional proposal will come to parliament. Here, December 15, 2007, December 15, 2012; it ends five years. We've been waiting for five years, and the Justice and Development Party is following such a policy that neither skewers nor kebabs can say clearly what they want, what they want to get at, what they want to get at, what they want to get at, love! As a member of the Constitutional Compromise Commission, it's assumed that this is the obligation to express it here in these sentences, from my point of view. Dear friends, the Constitutional Court budget has been raised by 50% this year. So, why was it increased? So all of Turkey's institutions and corporations' investments have increased by 50 percent? No. Again, the Constitutional Court is required to apply for 150 million euros each with the new money. When this appeal is seen as unfair, when it's rejected, you pay 2 billion fines with $2,000, which is old money. The European Court of Human Rights has no price to pay for neither the application nor the rejection. I mean, another friend of ours told me, is this a commercial establishment, or is this a door where the oppressed, the victim, the desperate, the poor, everyone gets their dues? The budget is going up 50 percent. I've just highlighted -- why is it being increased? In terms of $7,600 euros, or TL, a monthly vehicle alone, over 17 billion a month, is paid over 17,000 TL. Well, why isn't this car being bought, and nobody knows about it. Dear friends, finally, the Constitutional Court is an institution that judges ministers and prime ministers. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, I'd like to end my conversation with a criminal complaint. Yesterday, the last chapter of the 9th chapter of the Prime Minister's talk, which he reads on December 10, 2012: the April 27th declaration remained a futile attempt, thanks to the standing of the AK PARTI government. However, the cost of this e-sign has been $2 billion per year, with interest only to Turkey. How much does February 28th cost to this country? Compare it to you. Who says so? Mr. Prime Minister says, look, it's an open-and-shut complaint. I wrote it, I signed it, I read it. It cost $2 billion a year. What's been done about the person responsible for this?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0080par0287	The armored car's been taken.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0079par0288	Armored car, talted, I hope to receive a medal. I'm pressing charges against Yasar Buyukanit as well as the Prime Minister for the damage of $2 billion. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0081par0292	Thank you, Mr. Tan. Congressmans, the talks on behalf of the groups are complete. On behalf of his people, Zülfu Demirbağ, Elazığ MP in his favour. Here you go, Mr. Ironbone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0082par0298	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself to express my views in favour of the 2013-2015 budget of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I salute you and our great nation. Before we move on to budget proposals, I'd like to inform you about the work being done: As you all know, the Constitutional Compromise Commission, which began its work on October 19, 2011, with the support of our nation's expectations and political will, has ended the process of receiving as broadly-accessed views as possible, as well as the contributions of our political parties. The treatment regulation has been changed and the application of health rationing has been lifted and the health care institutions of the lawmakers, T.C. It's been provided to process with an ID number. The MP's identity certificate has been officially issued as a result of legal changes. In addition, construction of the new public relations building that is being built is rapidly under way, and it will be more practical and technologically available to lawmakers in this legislative year. I also don't want to enter the budget figures because it was expressed by Mr. Mustafa, our Group Manager. My dear friends, for the rest of the time, I will try to make a brief stop on the general budget and investments in the east and southeast. In order to minimize the difference of regional development and development, the EC PARTI, as the speakers have said earlier, has first achieved its goal of 15,000km double road and university with each; again, the airport has been built from almost every and every and every province, and continues to be built.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0083par0307	How many times do we have to listen to this?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0082par0308	Again, by rehabilitating the railways and spreading the fast train network, our people have been given the opportunity to make a very alternative, comfortable journey. IN THE early years of our rule, the law of the KYODES was passed, and large funds were transferred to our boroughs that were behind in the ministry. In fact, these provinces of ours, which have been neglected over the years by the 25-26 trillion allowances of the year, are about one-third the third of the Elazig, and the fifth of the provinces of the East and the southeast. After the Van earthquake, a new city was built, about 5.5 quadrillion resources were transferred. Here, all these services and investments are being made, and on the one hand, the rarely implemented Incentive Law on Earth has been issued, and the East and Southeast District has been given maximum incentives, so it is the 6th district. However, while all these investments and services continue, PKK and its supporters, who claim to be the advocate of the rights of Kurdish people and people in the region, are blocking and doing the worst that can be done to the region's people, taking advantage and taking advantage of the major advantages and opportunities offered by the Indusciation Act, by burning down business machines, kidnapping employees, and creating an unsecured environment. Again, I'd like to address the local people, my Kurdish brothers, and make a very important point. Dear MPs, dear members of our great nation, we all have children, and if we have the means, at least in a good public school, if we have the means, in private school, in college, abroad, to prepare our children for the future in the best possible way. And our southeast people, our Kurdish brothers, don't they have the right? Don't the spiritual descendants of Salahaddin Ayyubi, Ahmadi Hani, Sadizcem Saidi Nursi, have the right to become engineers, to become lawyers, to become doctors, to become scholars, to become businessmen?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0084par0313	There is, there is!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0085par0314	Yes, if you don't put him in jail!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0082par0315	Of course I do.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0085par0316	They also have the right to education in their own language!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0082par0317	But unfortunately, children who are promised intelligent and bright futures in the area by the terrorist organization -- be careful, children -- are being thrown in their schools, burned, kidnapped teachers, expelled from school, and used to drugs, and are practically encouraged to go to the mountains or kidnapped.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0085par0318	Ask the police about the drugs, ask the Diyarbakır Police!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0082par0319	By the way, the age of climbing the mountain... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from 18 to 12, and the mountain's armed pictures are published in the newspapers. This is the greatest evil and betrayal of the people of the region and the Kurdish community. [[It's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over, it's over!]] Again, a trillion dollars spent on this problem since the 80s is the financial extent of the work. With this source, it could be rebuilt east and southeast.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0086par0324	Mr. Ironbone, thank you, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0082par0325	With these feelings, I salute you all, and pay my respects to the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0086par0327	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Bashir Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0331	Mr. President, I salute you on behalf of my own and our government first. Today, I stand before you to express the opinion of our government on the budget law of 2013 and the final bill of the 2011 Bank of Accounts. I'm going to give you some information about the Prime Minister's work. I'm here to express some thoughts about the issues expressed by valuable speakers. As I begin my speech, I would like to thank our friends from all the ruling and opposition parties that are speaking here today, starting with the presidency of our important institutions, the high judiciary and the Prime Minister, the Parliamentary budget. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as prime minister, we act on the vision of being an institution that leads to change, transformation, to becoming a strong country. The prime minister's job is to provide the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers with all the support for the implementation of government's general policy within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the rule of law, to ensure effective co-operation and co-ordination among the ministries, and to lead the state administration to operate in a orderly and harmonised manner. And the Prime Minister's organisation is most effective under the leadership of our Prime Minister. As you know, our government has completed its ten years, and today we have submitted our 11th budget to the High Council. Last month, two weeks ago, our Council of Ministers held the first Council of Ministers meeting of the 11th year, where we made evaluations. On November 19, 2002, the first Council of Ministers of the EC PARTY was convened, and on November 26, it was the first Council of Ministers of our 11th year. And praise be to God, this decade has been well spent by the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY government for Turkey. Turkey has benefited from the ten years of stability provided by the one-party government. Turkey has experienced a really strong period of stability in the world, with few examples, and it lives on. For a long time, Turkey had lost a lot of troubled coalitions that began in 1991 and lasted until 2002. This ten-year period of peace and stability has given Turkey much, and Turkey is stronger in every way today. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Turkey has achieved great success in every area in the last ten years. As a government, we solve our country's decades of chronic problems one by one, we overcome obstacles.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0088par0338	Have you solved the terror, the terror? How do you solve terrorism?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0339	In the economy, with a shared enthusiasm and enthusiasm for the expansion of democratic rights and freedoms, we are moving forward, all together, towards their 2023 goals. Despite all the negativity around Turkey, which is in a very difficult geography, Turkey remains a stabilisation, peace and security island.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0088par0340	You didn't know there was another terrorist attack in Istanbul!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0341	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we continue our country's reputation abroad, while we continue our domestic activities, our development initiatives. For ten years, we have fought tirelessly, unrestrainedly, to make this country a more prosperous, more prestigious country. We see service to our nation not only as a duty and a duty, but also as a duty to our country, to our nation, to our love, to our love. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Turkey is moving towards a happier, more prosperous future with strong and decisive steps. Like our 10th budget, the 11th budget, which we have prepared before this, is a budget in harmony with the vision of Turkey the Great again, which we have promised our nation. The 2013 budget was prepared as a budget with social sensitivity, a strong social nature, who monitors victims; it supports production, investment, trade, export; it cares about social policies; it doesn't care about populism; it is prepared as a budget that does not compromise financial discipline. As prime minister, as it is known -- a speaker has also expressed here -- we have the Prime Ministerial Strategic Plan, covering 2011-2015, and we are implementing it now. According to this plan, increasing the efficiency of the institution in determining national and international strategies and implementing policies, providing a faster, quality and reliable public service for citizens; leading to a transparent, accountable, efficient and effective public administration, establishing a governing structure that allows for more participation in decision-making processes and individuals, and in that direction, a set of principles are taking place in the topics of improving the institutional capacity of the prime minister's central body. In terms of the figures of our budget, let me point out that this year, our 2013 budget has a slight reduction compared to 2012. In the 2013 budget bill, our offer was 769 million, 789000 TL, and the total salary of 2012 was $861m,757,000. There has been a reduction in the Prime Minister's budget due to a reduction in transfers to funds and other administrations for support and protection of peace. Of course, one of the main attributes of the Prime Ministership is the pursuit of the government programme. With a mechanism established within the prime minister's office, our government programme is followed by this mechanism, which our ministers and we are involved in. You know, the AK PARTY government programs -- this is our 4th government program -- the 61st Government Program -- we follow them very carefully. Mr. President, when the government prepares our programs, whatever we say in the election statements, whatever is in our election declarations, we put them in our government program and put them as our targets. Whatever we've committed to our citizens, they're in the government's own schedule and agenda. For him, our government programs are not just texts that carry out a formality, and we make them a plan of action, which our ministry fulfills our commitments to what, and we follow it. Here, in that sense, a very efficient, successful study is being conducted. I'm going to talk about the departments within the prime minister's office and their work briefly, and I'm going to talk about the talks of our valued deputies here. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, I would like to address the main units within the Prime Minister's office as follows: Investment Support and Promotion Agency is a unit that does important work and is working to support foreign capital's investments in Turkey. He does serious international work and allows investors who come to Turkey to pursue their work from one centre in Turkey. That's why, you know, in the time of our powers, the arrival of foreign capital in Turkey has greatly increased. Until our time, throughout the history of the republic, there are many exceptional periods in which the annual investment of foreign capital exceeds 1 billion. Other than that, it did not exceed 1 billion, but since 2008 and then there were significant reductions in international investments throughout the world due to the global economic crisis, Turkey withdrew $22 billion in 2007, $19.5 billion in 2008, $8.4 billion in 2009, $9 billion in 2010. Last year, an international investment in Turkey amounted to $16 billion.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0089par0350	The real business or the financial institutions?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0351	Because Turkey is a country that is now trusted with its future.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0089par0352	Have these foreign investments increased employment?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0353	It's a country to invest in...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0089par0354	That's right, that's right!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0355	And that's what international organizations are all about.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0089par0356	You're a loan shark, feeding loan sharks.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0357	Turkey is one of the most secure, most investable countries in its future. This is the first time that foreign capital investments have been seriously increased in this period. You know another activity that's been conducted, it's the Official Gazette. I'm just referring to the issue of the Official Gazette to present you with this information. Of course, the official newspaper, the functioning of the state, the functioning of governments, is also a very important document in which all regulations are published, an official document. So, in the pursuit of this, especially in the pursuit of past times, there was difficulty. The official newspapers published from 7/2/1921 have been transferred to electronic media, and the project is completed for the release of the fissis to the services of users. With this project, 950,000 pages of official newspapers have now been transferred to electronic media since 1921. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as of the date it took effect, all of our coded legislation is being passed to the information system on the Prime Minister's website. You know, there's a lot of difficulty in tracking that, too. At the moment, this system has enabled the citizen to access any legislation for free and reliable purposes. Our archives, of course, are another important work by the Prime Minister. Protecting our archives and decoding them, transmitting them to the electronic environment, and creating new archives, the best way to open our very large archives in the past. In particular, the General Directorate of State Archives has important work in this direction. Currently -- especially the Ottoman archives were very disorganized, especially in the inhospitable buildings -- are close to the end of the work of building a modern national archive site with technical equipment that will protect the data better, guarantee the security of historical documents against any danger, and is also intended to be launched by the end of this year. Also, of course, there is a continuing process of electronically accessing archive documents. Mr. President, we continue our work, which we can call administrative simplification in the presentation of public services. The Service Inventory Project, which is being conducted on the definition and classification of public services, continues to update necessary changes in the state department and services available. Today, most of the work with the government, with the public, can be done on the Internet easily. Many services have been made available electronically from school records to tax payments, car sales to registration, exports, imports to traffic transactions. The e-mail application, which allows public operations to take place officially in the electronic environment, continues to be implemented in many areas. Furthermore, a study that has never really happened has been conducted with the Prime Minister's Communication Centre (BIMER). It is easy for all of our citizens to get access to the prime minister in the most distant, in every way, in writing or electronic environment, and they are always returned and public relations are very effective in BIMER. This is one of the important public relations activities of our government. The National Intelligence Agency is tasked to inform the authorities on time about domestic and external threats to our national security, available and possible threats, and to inform the authorities of developments in the direction of measures to be made. Its mission is to establish national security intelligence on the country and nation of the Republic of Turkey, its integrity, its presence, its independence, its security, its constitutional order and all its external and external elements, and to bring this information to the proper institutions with the President, the Prime Minister, the Chief of the General Staff, the Secretary of the National Security Board. There's a bit of an increase in his budget here. The reason for this increase: of course, as it is known -- the speakers have just brought it up -- two facilities have joined the MIT. One of them is the GES Command in Lakebaş, and one of them is the facilities that are now being delivered to the MIT. Of course, there's a process of tasting these things, so there's a certain amount of increase in his budget. In addition, statements have been made concerning the GESEs' participation in the MIT, the transfer of of the armed forces from the Chief of Staff to the MIT. This, of course, is a work done by the mutual contact of the two institutions and its co-existence. There was a double process going on here. In a sense, it's a savings, showing more active activities with less resources. I mean, since our agency in charge of intelligence activities is the MIT, it's more appropriate to run it there. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, as to the issues expressed by the valuable speakers here, first and foremost, the debate on the presidential system is an offer to the Constitutional Compromise Commission. The Constitutional Compromise Commission is currently working. There are three representatives of the four parties, and they present their views on every topic of their party to the Compromise Commission. Our members of the Compromise Commission have offered their opinion on the party. There -- it's true -- there's the presidential system, but there are different presentations of parties on everything, which will later be judged within the Compromise Commission. Here, Mr. President -- let's start there -- is inappropriate, of course, in the parliament, in the Supreme Assembly, some statements about the President of the State have been used that cannot be used or used. There's no way to confirm any of this. Those friends of ours know how wrong this is, but it's theirs, it's theirs, it's theirs, it's theirs, it's theirs, it's theirs, it's theirs, I'm not saying anything. But let me put it this way: here are the terms of the consent authority, such as the consent authority. Dear MPs, the presidency is not necessarily the office to reject decisions and bills from the government and parliament. The president examines documents that come to him without executive or legal action, whether they are in accordance with the Constitution or the law, whether there is a legal problem, or not. Of course, because it's used to this, in Turkey, it's asked, "Why doesn't this happen today because the President's signatures are both desirable in the decisions of the judiciary or because there are practices in that sense in the days of judgment?" So the presidential office is not a place to make a decision about the documents that have come to its senses. The government owns it, the House owns it. If there's something illegal, illegal, illegal, illegal, the President will send them back, but he can't make a decision.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0090par0369	The Prime Minister will approve. He said. He appeared before the people, the Prime Minister said he would approve, and he approved. Isn't that notary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0370	The Constitutional Court also has a ruling on its decision. Mr. Demirel, the Constitutional Court has made this decision at the time. The President cannot make a decision in his place. Our president is doing what is meant to be, and here...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0090par0371	The president needs a good lawyer. Let's send a law school student!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0372	...our EC PARTY MP Mr. Sacit has also stated that this is the first time he's met with the people in this period, let's face it. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) Until today, the presidency was the focus of the nation.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0091par0373	That's a shame, that's a shame! Don't be disrespectful!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0374	Today the presidency has met with the nation.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0092par0375	Is Turgut Ozal, too, Turtle Ozal?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0376	He's an exception.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0093par0377	Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0094par0378	To you, Mr. Secretary, the exception is to you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0379	And after that...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0095par0380	Mr. Demirel has done his duty. Does that sound good to you?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0381	The period of Demirel is 28 February. And from now on, the people are going to elect the president, and we've done what had to be done, and all this discussion is going to be over.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0096par0382	What happened on February 28th, Mr. Secretary? With your procedures, you've made February 28th a prayer, prayer, prayer. Have fear of God.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0383	Of course, there are other things here, and I have notes from our Secretary General, but our President is continuing his mission in accordance with the legislation, in accordance with the great gratitude of our people. We also see how deeply our people are interested in him. Instead of answering questions asked here over and over again, let me say that our president is in a very active position.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0097par0385	To go to the foot of the Saudi King in Swissotel?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0386	Look, in the last 30 days alone, the number of foreign heads of state that our President has accepted is 8, the head of state. Turkey is running such a big, active policy, and our President is running a policy like that, so let me make that clear.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0097par0387	Is that why he couldn't go to Iraq, Minister of Energy? Is that why they flew your plane around in the air?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0388	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been mentioned here, of course, about the report card, about the advocacy, a lot of things about the government, since yesterday... Our Prime Minister expressed it here last night. We, by the vote of our nation, now live our 11th year in praise as the government, by the vote of one of our nation's two peoples, by the vote of 50 percent. It's all...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0098par0390	Your last days, your last days.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0391	In our recent investigation, just a few days ago, I'll tell you from here...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0099par0392	They can't write the truth out of fear. They can't write out of fear.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0087par0393	The latest study of KONDA is 51.5%; the game we received is on top of it. I'll tell you that right here.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0100par0394	We're on our way to 60.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0099par0395	What company is that, what company?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0101par0396	He's your company, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0102par0397	Start a company, do your own research.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0398	I'm also giving you the name of the company, KODA. Follow it, search it, find it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0104par0399	It's the company that can't write out of fear.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0400	Here, of course, something was said about the covered grant, which I'd like to answer by reading from the note given here. Earlier, a covert grant application under the Mulga 1050 Law on Accounting and Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018 after 2003 has been redacted in Article 24 (U.S.). The law defines closed intelligence and closed defence services as the budget of the Prime Minister for the needs of the State's reputation, political, social and cultural purposes and extraordinary services, as well as the needs of the state's national security and high interests. The budgets of other public administrations, which operate intelligence services required by law, are partially covered. The costs for covered funds are paid according to the provisions signed by the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister and the concerned minister. The initial budget grants are in the budget laws; the spending at the end of the year is clearly in the final accounts, and the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In addition, the government's policy of openness and transparency includes expenditures in the Prime Ministerial Action Reports, published since 2006, and this information is shared with the public. One of our speakers used the same expression, sometimes I don't mention names so he doesn't get the right to answer, and I have the names of the speakers: the National Security Council has been exposed, weakened. Now, of course, one of the Prime Minister's establishments is concerned. Our fellow Conqueror Şahin here, the Secretary General of the National Security Board, has expressed what he used to be, what he is now, in his previous speech. The Secretary General of the National Security Council and the National Security Council used to be an alternative government, friends, and one of the first laws we changed in 2004, and everyone knows how much change there is here. The Secretary General of the National Security Board was there to conduct almost alternative government work, psychological operations across the country. Today he operates solely as the secretary of the National Security Council, and the National Security Council continues its duties as the former National Security Council. Of course, a statement was used here, which I'm transferring to the Speakership. A speaker here used the expression "dirty fingers" in order to remove them, by order of dirty fingers -- the votes used by lawmakers here in Parliament, the hands raised by dirty fingers. This report can be looked at here, in my hand, in the transcript. I'm condemning. In such a National Assembly, the expression of dirty fingers in Turkey's Grand National Assembly and such a parliament cannot be spoken with respect. The statement is included in the same speech. I'm just reminding the Speaker of the House. In addition, there was something said here by mentioning the names of Taiyip Erdogan, "Abdullah Gül" or something like that. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Abdullah Gul is the most successful political leaders of this era, raising the Republic of Turkey, praising Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0105par0405	Congratulations!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0406	That's how history will remember it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0106par0407	Yes, the date will commemorate the plane...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0408	Yeah. I mean, can I just...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0106par0409	...the plane that returned from Iraq's skies will also remember the sack, the plane that fell, the date that will remember them all.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0410	Especially one who has a mind will think about it again: "Taidip Erdogan is a coward," he says. They laugh at it, they laugh at it. I mean, Erdogana is a man who calls himself a coward. Can you imagine that?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0107par0411	Why, isn't America afraid of it?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0412	I have been working with Erdogan for 11 years, and I have been in this cabinet since November 2002 19th.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0108par0413	What happened to the sack, sack? Tell me what happened to the blue marmara!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0414	Recep Erdogan is a backboned man, a stand-up political leader, and we don't use words like that. No one needs to kiss his ass. We know we're alive, we tell them to identify, we talk straight.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0109par0415	What about a baseball bat, a baseball bat, tell me!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0416	The world knows how upright Erdogan is, how fearless he is in the way he believes he is, and everyone knows it!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0110par0418	What happened to the blue marmara, blue marmara?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0111par0419	We saw it in Israel!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0420	You know that, you know very well, if we had a leader like that, you'd envy him, I'm sure!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0112par0422	That's right.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0423	But someone came here and said that Tayip Erdoğan was a coward.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0113par0424	Blue Marmara!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0425	If you look at these ten years, you'll be the best to decide. And I don't really need to give examples here, precious MPs.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0114par0426	I don't know about Erdogan, but there have been a lot of ideas about you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0427	And here they are, dating with protection into the community... and so on.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0115par0428	That's right! Is that a lie?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0429	Dear friends, look, we've been in power for ten years...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0116par0430	Are you afraid of death?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0431	...with the Prime Minister, with his ministers, with his deputies. There were times when, after two or three years in power, their ministers could not go out on the street.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0117par0432	Well, he can't get out now.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0103par0433	We, praise the Lord, have a clear head! We are among citizens all over Turkey and our citizen is mobilising to embrace our Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0118par0435	500 guards, 500 cops...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0119par0436	He's running around with 20 guards.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0118par0437	The governor of Diyarbakir is traveling with 20 guards.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0120par0438	You know that yourself. You know that.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0118par0439	The governor is traveling in 15 vehicles in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0120par0440	How ignorant it is to say that I am not afraid. Won't the Prime Minister have protection?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0118par0441	Why do lawmakers have MPs?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0120par0442	That's not possible!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0121par0443	Mr. Secretary, how many ministers have their noses broken? Can you tell me how many of the ministers broke their noses before you did? How many ministers have their noses broken before you?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0122par0444	Why are you yelling!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0123par0445	Ask Sadi Somuncuoğlu!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0446	Here, of course, about the Court, our deputy speaker answers when asked questions, but I'll just say, the government has been charged with the same thing as: the Court has been weakened. Look, Mr. President, I'm a high-profile member of the board of lawmakers, and I'm a big participant in the government's democratisation steps.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0125par0448	I can see that!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0449	And it's one of our democratization steps...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0126par0450	That's why you can't be democratic!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0451	...two laws are fiscally; one is the Public Financial Control Act 5018; the second is the Law of the Court, and they complete each other. For the first time, during our rule, all of our institutions were once disorganized -- inspectors, financiers, others -- were given financial control, and this is a reform. It's a reform, everybody knows that, a little bit of wisdom knows that. There are no exceptions. Then, the Court is accused, of course it was spoken here yesterday, and they say, "Why didn't the Prime Minister answer?" Our Group Deputy Director Canikli responded, and two of our spokesman, Lütfi Elvan and Mustafa Elitaş responded. Sir, why didn't the inspection reports come? Should our Prime Minister go out and talk about it again? No, here's the thing. His answer was given, but here the Court is being treated unfairly. There's a change of law in mid-July, there's a change in method, and that's why the delay in all these audit reports is coming up. We all know that. Now, I asked -- Mr. President here, President of the Court -- about the 2012 audit, how much did you inspect? He told me that this year, in 2012, 91 per cent of the budget is being audited.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0127par0454	Where are the reports, the reports?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0128par0455	Where are the reports, the reports?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0456	Yeah, those reports are coming in next year, but there's been a delay due to that legal change this year.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0129par0457	Get well soon!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0458	Therefore, the Court is stronger today, its powers have been increased; we are an institution that handles financial control of all of Turkey's institutions.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0130par0459	But you can fool yourself, Mr. Secretary, you can't fool us.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0460	There's been a lot of talk here about judgment, of course.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0130par0461	We're not naive, you can only fool the line.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0462	I'm sure that on the day the Justice Department budget is discussed, many of these will again come forward and make judgment evaluations, but I'll tell you this: in the time of the EC PARTY, the judgment has become its true identity, its independence, its freedom, its work and its power.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0130par0463	Is that why you're giving orders?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0464	With the rights of the members of the judiciary, with the palaces of justice...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0130par0465	What's up, Lighthouse prosecutors? Which prosecutor is handling the MIT case, which prosecutor?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0466	In my days as a lawyer, I was sad even in Ankara, even in Ankara, by seeing those isolated courts. Today, there were courts all over Turkey, easy places to work.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0130par0467	Mr. Secretary, tell the line, don't tell me.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0468	Look, today with the courthouse palaces...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0130par0469	The Prime Minister says we've given instructions.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0131par0470	Thanks to you, we're world champions in journalism.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0471	...Sainttay, Prosecutor's Office, Constitutional Court, for the first time in Ankara, they have the buildings to work in integrity; now the Supreme Court will have it, and we work for it. This government is doing its best to ease the working conditions of the judiciary. I don't want to get too involved because our esteemed congressman, John Akman, has made a large statement, but the judgment has been more liberal at this time, but...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0472	The Minister of Mole talks about judgment!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0473	That's why. The liberation of the judgment bothers someone.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0474	He'll be a mole and talk about justice?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0475	That's all there is to it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0476	Mr. Secretary, tell me about the Lighthouse, the Lighthouse!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0477	Of course, I find it important that the Supreme Court...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0478	Mr. Secretary, tell me about the lighthouse.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0479	...has become a human rights court today.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0480	Tell me about the lighthouse, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0481	On the one hand, I'm gonna come out here and...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0482	Mr. Secretary, I don't think you're hearing me. Mr. Secretary, tell me about the lighthouse.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0483	On the one hand, sir, there are so many cases in the European Court of Human Rights. Turkey has the most cases. It is said that the Constitutional amendment is being filed after that.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0484	You don't have the face to look this way, you don't have the guts to look this way.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0485	Turkey has received a Constitutional Court for the first time. These individual application rights are so important that from now on, not to the European Court of Human Rights...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0132par0486	Mr. Secretary, tell me about the Lighthouse.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0487	...our citizens will go to the Supreme Court and...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0133par0488	Mr. President, we can't listen, Mr. President, we can't hear.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0489	...that no one, no one, speaks of this here about judgment.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0134par0490	Why are you so uncomfortable with the lighthouse, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0135par0491	Why don't you tell me about the lighthouse? Where are the Light Lanterns, who've been working on this fitness and zakat? Tell me, did you buy a ship, set up a TV with the Lighthouse's money?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0492	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are here...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0136par0494	Mr. President, would you step in, please? We can't listen.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0137par0495	Dear friends... please listen, dear friends, please listen.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0124par0496	Of course, your honor... here, in the need for this power to be taken down... the words... and so on... can be looked at again from the transcripts. He's a spokesman... so there's talk of the dictatorship of the AK PARTY or something. I mean, I feel really bad about this CHP saying that. So the People's Republican People's Party (CHP) of the 1940s accuses the government of dictatorship, which has practically guided democratisation in today's Turkey. It's amazing, it's amazing!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0138par0497	Mr. Secretary, give me today's account.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0139par0498	It was World War II. Have fear of God, you speak of it eighty years ago.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0138par0499	Mr. Secretary, are you a subcontractor? Mr. Secretary, why are you a subcontractor?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0140par0500	Mr. President, what the hell! The president is the minister of Tabheron. He says!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0501	Of course, Mr. Sakk meant something here.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0138par0502	He doesn't hear, he doesn't hear subcontractorship, he doesn't hear, he doesn't hear the mole; he hears what he wants.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0503	Look, I'll tell you this again: here, here, here, there are Kurdish-Turkish distinctions, Kurds aren't assigned. It's a shame to discriminate.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0142par0504	Explain, how many Kurdish generals are there, how many are there? Don't bullshit me! How many governors are there? Is there a general manager in the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0505	In the Republic of Turkey, such a distinction is never, never, never made, in the AK PARTI governments. It's all wrong.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0142par0506	Story! How many Black Sea governors are there, how many Rizeli governors?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0507	If anyone does that, we'll stand up, we'll stand up, we'll stand up.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0142par0508	From Ilisu Dam to Erbil Airport, the Black Seas received all the tenders.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0509	In Turkey, how can you say such a thing in Parliament?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0142par0510	He can't get into red tape without the Black Sea.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0511	But if you don't admit it, I don't know if you don't accept Kurds who aren't your party, who aren't yours. We have a lot of bureaucrats involved in this life, in the bureaucracy, everywhere, and no one's identity, ethnicity, origins, that's not gonna happen, that's not gonna happen.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0142par0512	There aren't one Kurdish general by chance. Do you have a Kurdish organeral?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0143par0513	It's obvious what you're doing, we know how you discriminate.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0514	Let me tell you this, Mr. Sakık. Let me tell your friends: Look, the AK PARTI is the cement of Turkey's unity, integrity, brotherhood, guarantees, guarantees.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0142par0515	You interrupted, you interrupted, you interrupted!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0143par0516	Why did you get kicked out of Kırıkkale University?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0517	We are the cement of our country's unity. We don't sacrifice one of our citizens, we don't divide anyone, we don't divide anyone, and our Kurdish citizens know that, and the AK PARTI knows this policy very well.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0144par0518	Mr. Secretary, why was the Lighthouse's wiretaps deleted?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0519	This is the first time we've pushed rejection and denial policies back into this country.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0145par0520	Look, Mr. Secretary, how many women are there in the bureaucrats? Well, there's discrimination.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0521	Today, the government is dealing with its past...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0146par0522	Friends, please let's hear it... please let's hear it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0147par0523	What happened to the phone records at the lighthouse, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0524	...and we're dealing with the wrongs, but you don't see them. You can't see it, you can't see it...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0147par0525	Why are you destroying criminal evidence, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0526	Mr. Sakek doesn't see it, someone doesn't see it, but people see it, people see it...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0148par0527	Give me a number, count it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0528	And we didn't do it for anyone, we did it for our people, we did it for our citizens, we did it for our government's own accountability, rejection and denial policies, the extradition of our citizens' rights and laws. We are a party that separates terror from terror. If all of our citizens have broken, neglected rights and laws, we're their guarantee, and as the AK PARTY, we're going to continue on this path, and we'll be fine here, but, please, take a good look. Criticizing here... okay, the opposition is critical...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0149par0530	How can you talk so unreally? Don't you have the fear of God?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0531	...but the opposition also says: "That's good. " Ten years, friends, it's our eleventh year, where did Turkey come from? Turkey is praised internationally.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0150par0532	Who made it rain?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0533	And that's every day, and you see it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0151par0535	Blind people, deaf people, they're heavy!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0536	Also, if the Turkish Republic of Turkey's opposition in the Turkish Grand National Assembly said one of them, it would profit, it would strengthen itself, and his criticism would be more justified, I assure you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0152par0537	Do we lie or do we lie?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0153par0538	Tell me about the plane, the plane. Tell me about the plane.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0539	Ben, here, I've got a little time, I'm gonna take my time. I wanted to cut it short first, but I mean, here, often, at our party, you know...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0152par0540	The environment is free, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0154par0541	Start with the lighthouse, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0542	...as our government gradually silenced the opposition, so, sir, pressured, became more and more authoritarian.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0155par0543	Is that a lie?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0544	I, in the period of our governments, in the tenth year of our government, have only written down democratic steps taken in ten years, I have provided this work, and when we look there, I will only remind some of them -- all of them have passed through the Parliament, from here, from the Supreme Assembly -- in this time.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0156par0545	What about the lighthouse, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0546	To those who tell Turkey that it is not democratizing, I read it only now in their headlines:
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0156par0547	What about the lighthouse, Lighthouse?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0548	We became rulers on November 19, 2002. One of our first acts is the removal of an extraordinary state in Turkey on November 30, 2002. Ten days after we became government, and on July 19, 1987, we removed the extraordinary state, which had been temporarily extended 46 times, without extension, on November 30, 2002. The extraordinary state of things, extraordinaryness -- in fact -- is the fact that an outside-of-the-normal law, the practice, came into play, because that's what we were asked to do in that region, in the Southeast. Over the years, this extraordinary period has made the citizen weary, and we have removed that extraordinary state.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0157par0549	Your governors are worse than the governors.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0550	The period of unsolved murders has been terminated. AK PARTY, which does not recognise the focus of power outside the will of the people, without judgment...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0158par0551	There are certain murders, Mr. Secretary, certain murders!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0552	...and removed right-of-life violations like unsolved murders from Turkey's agenda. Legal procedures have also been initiated by the judicial authorities regarding public officials involved in such illegal activities. Great distances have been taken from the removal of the smoke screen of the past, the lighting of dark events and the capture of criminals. There's been a lot of civilization arrangements. I've just given the example of the Secretary General of the National Security Council here, and there were representatives of the Secretary General of the National Security Council in many other institutions, such as the SEC, RTÜK and so on, all of which were removed from there. Look, the torture was a disgrace to Turkey and has always put Turkey before Turkey internationally.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0159par0556	You're number one in torture.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0557	Here, the definition of torture, maltreatment has been expanded, their sentences have been increased, there is no way for punishments to be converted to money, and torture has come out of Turkey's agenda with our zero tolerance policy.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0160par0558	How many people have been lost in custody, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0559	Besides, a more efficient and powerful civil society has always been the most important social element supported by our power. Look, the Associations' Law was viewed as a potential threat to the former Associations Act, a product of September 12 ideology, that should be controlled by organized society. We've all lived, we've all lived in those dangers... (CHP rows of noise) We've come here in the form of danger, friends, you all know, and with all the changes we've made, we've removed all of this and opened the way for organization. Today there are no borders, even children can form a fraternity. We've lifted all boundaries, release notices and so on. Those who went through those times know that. And we did that in 2004, in the second year, when we were still in power, in the third year, we did these important reforms.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0161par0560	We don't know, and the governor of Diyarbakir doesn't know.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0561	And to allow everyone to exercise their right to the meeting and demonstration; it was canceled with pleasure; it was standardized. If there's any obvious and imminent danger of criminal activity, then... Everything about the foundation has been relieved.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0162par0564	You're right.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0565	The closure of political parties... had the opposition voted, the political party would never have been shut down again in Turkey. It's now closed for more than 20 kilometers, but still, with our efforts, the closure has been increased, and the MPs are not dropping, and even if the party is shut down, we've brought important changes like this.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0163par0566	You'll have to ask your own trustees.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0567	This is all done in this period, in our early years.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0164par0568	Your MPs passed the fraud law, why didn't you say yes?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0569	And law enforcement centers have been upgraded. I've always said that here, in my Ministry of the Interior, I've provided that. Today all of our stations, police stations, police stations, stop by, they're all cameras. It's been talked about since before: here are the transparent, glassy outposts.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0165par0570	What did you do to your congressman, what did you do? Tell me what you did to the congressman who lined up the cops!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0571	Now they're all transparent friends, they're all transparent, they're all with cameras, and every cop, every gendarme, they know exactly how to behave when a citizen gets there, and they know exactly how to behave. Teaching different languages and dialects in private courses. These are the 2004s, and I can't come to these years, my time is up. Sir, the right to broadcast in different languages and dialects. Everyone's got the name they want for their kids... that's not even in Turkey, they're friends. The census worker was interfering with your child's name. What kind of country would that be? The mother was going to prison, and she could not speak in her native language with her child; she does not speak any other language, nor does she speak Turkish, nor does she speak with the interpreter.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0166par0573	Then who was the Deputy Prime Minister? Who was the governor of Ankara?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0141par0574	This government has lifted these primitives, this government has lifted them, and, of course, I can't get into any of the other things about all, especially the basic rights, the Constitutional changes, but hundreds of them, and I'm going to print it out and send it to our MPs soon. I hope you get a chance to look there. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I want to thank you for your support in our budget. I hope that the budgets of our institutions here, the budgets of 2013, are in the best interest of all, and I salute all of you with the best of heart.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0167par0577	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0168par0578	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0169par0579	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0167par0580	Mr. Sakek, just a moment... Sir, Mr. Shandir has asked for a promise before, and I'll give it to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0170par0583	Mr. President, in his speech, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0167par0584	Mr. Hamzacebi, I said Mr. Şandir. Please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0171par0587	Mr. President, thank you very much. I just wanted to say thank you to my friends and to you for the news I've just received. Mr. Oktay Vural's mother has passed away. My condolences, as the National Movement Party Group, I express our regrets. I've heard the need to announce to our parliament, to our MPs. I wish the deceased the blessings of God, my condolences to his family. And I give you my regards for your promise.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0172par0590	Thank you, sir. My condolences on the behalf of our delegation, Mr. Vural. May the rest of you be blessed and blessed. Mr. Hamzacebi, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0173par0595	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary has made a statement to the Republican People's Party Group for the spiritual character of our party. The idea of the Republican People's Party of the 1940s was a statement of criticism of our understanding of democracy, sir. That's why I want the word.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0174par0596	I didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0172par0597	Here you go, sir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0175par0602	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, when answering questions and criticisms, I would wish that you would step up your own academic career, make good evaluations, and the whole Parliament would take advantage of it, but he chose another way, tried to make it polemic, but he didn't succeed in it, and everything they said contradicts each other. Mr. Secretary, we'd expect you to answer this: you faced a serious accusation in the Lighthouse case, you've been asked in Parliament. For the first time, a Minister of the Republic of Turkey has addressed an investigation, a matter on the subject of the investigation, a geneor on the grounds that he shares information that should remain confidential with investigations. A serious adjective has been used for you, and I don't want to repeat it here, it's a very sad adjective, and I don't think you're upset enough about it. A republican government minister doesn't leak an investigation to people who are involved in an investigation, and that doesn't happen. The phone records of the investigation have been removed, deleted, no explanations. You said one thing: some of the ministers of the former governments come and can't get out of the street. I'm telling you from here: You will one day be unable to go out on the street in Turkey, and the way is right for him. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Prime Minister said something yesterday, and I'd like you to make an assessment. He said, "It's a sin." He said, "It's a sin." He made evaluations about immunity. He made some assessments of a number of crimes. Come, let's remove these, including the Prime Minister's immunity... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Otherwise, it would be a sin to eat illicit food. Thank you all.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0611	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0177par0613	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0178par0614	Mr. President, because of the statements I just made, Mr. Secretary, the funeral was a lie.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0615	Okay, please, in two minutes and without a challenge.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0178par0617	Mr. President, dear friends, I've just made a statement. Mr. Secretary, I mean, everyone knows us well, we don't have a lot of lies in our lives, and I've never spoken to anyone in such a language before, and I've spoken with documents. Now, I'm telling you, if we don't have Kurds, turn around and your own Kurds are in these institutions, I'll be a liar. Look at the members of the Constitutional Court as a whole: Samsun, Sarıkamiş, Ankara, Elbia, İstanbul, Ankara, Konya, Çorum, İstanbul, Ankara, Beirut - I don't know where. For some reason, he was transferred from Beirut - Afyon, Isparta. Now that I've counted several institutions and you've been going back and forth and talking about equality, I've only said that Kurds are not in these institutions. And I'll tell you something more clearly: there was an election here in 2010 for the Constitutional Court, two of our friends from here were the island, one of our lawyer friends in Kurdish geography -- not one of us -- and most of the AKP's friends here voted for him. After voting, all AKP MPs at that time were not nominated, see, even this... we know very clearly what was said and what was done behind closed doors, so when we come up here and say it, we don't bring things by heart. I can tell you 20 institutions, there are no Kurds, Alevi and opposition people in 20 institutions, Mr. Minister. I'm about to present my document to you because it's not just your policies, it's a cruel policy from the Republic to this day. That's why I said there's no brotherhood, there's no fighting. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0619	Thank you, Mr. Sakek.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0620	Mr. President, Atalay misunderstood my dirty finger expression. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0621	Now, I'm going to look at the records, but I heard, you said "dirty fingers" to the fingers of the majority.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0622	No, but it's a misunderstanding. No, I'm gonna say something. I mean, it's not my intention...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0623	I'll bring in the paperwork and check it out. Please sit down.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0624	No, Mr. President, just a minute. If that's the way it went down, it's the wrong...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0625	No, I'll see if I can get the records, see if there's anything like that, what did you say, Mr. Atalay say? Please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0627	So I'm saying the word "dirty finger" is wrong. Let me explain for a minute.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0628	No, I'll have the records brought in, then. Please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0630	Mr. President, may I have your attention...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0631	I listened, I listened. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0633	Look, as Congresswoman, I'm saying that the whole dirty finger thing I'm using here has been misexplained or misconstrued, and I'd like to correct it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0634	You want to fix it... Go ahead and fix it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0179par0636	No, I'll do it from here.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0176par0637	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go. [[Noises]] Fix it in a minute, what's a dirty finger?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0180par0643	Mr. President, now, of course, here Bashir Atalay has not responded to any of my speeches, he is one. Second of all, I said, "You're not correcting dirty fingers, you're correcting dirty things with those fingers." I said, "You can't fix dirty work by raising your finger." I said dirty finger, that's a bit of a false expression. So what I'm saying is that the AKP thinks we're doing all the dirty work here, because that's not going to happen, because the budget that comes out here is clearly against the Law on Budget, the Law on Court, the Law on Public Financial Management, the Constitution. However, this strict bill of accounting and budget bill must not be discussed, it is very clear. And yet, with their fingers, they lift it up and fix it. That's not going to happen. I mean, these aren't proper jobs. Then, I mean, I'd like to remind Bashir Atalay, why were you deposed as President of Cırkkale? You've been dismissed as president of Irtica. And now that you've arrived, you've ruled out irony as a crime...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0181par0647	Thank you. I've had enough of your conversation.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0182par0648	I understood that it was the irrigator.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0181par0649	Mr. Elistash, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0183par0651	Mr. President, thank you. We've just learned from the testimony of Mr. Shandir....that Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of the National Movement Party Party, is dead....and the mother of Mr. Oktay Vural is dead....and we ask for God's mercy on the deceased. And as we have just learned from him, he will be buried tomorrow at the Ankara Kobytepe Mosque with the funeral prayer, which will be followed by the noon prayer. In fact, in the previous matter, Mr. Speaker, we made a wish when Sadik Bey's father died. As long as our Parliamentary presidency has a message to all lawmakers about the funeral of our fellow lawmakers, we'll probably all be able to carry out this spiritual mission, because that's the only way we'll ever be able to find out. We can compete, we can talk about different things here, but people will probably contribute to this by sharing their painful days, their happy days, their suffering, by announcing to our Parliamentary presidency. I ask God's mercy on the deceased, and his place will be in heaven. And I ask for patience with the Vural family.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0184par0654	Thank you. Mr. President will be notified to make it necessary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0185par0656	Mr. President, I would like your word on the same thing.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0184par0657	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0185par0659	Thank you, Mr. President. As the Republican People's Party Group, we wish patience and condolences to Mr. Oktay Vural, his family, the National Movement Party Group and the Turkish Assembly of the National Assembly, as the mother of Mr. Oktay Vural has come to the mercy of Hakkk. We wish their mother God's mercy. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0186par0662	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0663	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0186par0664	Mr. Sakık, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0666	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. It's actually very human, so it's very, very human to share this kind of pain, but even that shows that... you've opened up my wound, you've torn up my body as Parliament, you've dug up the Deputy Director of the Group. I'm a part of you. Why don't you show the same sensitivity when we, our friends, a group of us, lose our loved ones, as Congress, why don't you? Why do you withhold this from the Kurds that you show to everyone and call them Islam? Shame on you, it's a sin!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0188par0668	Stop doing Kurdish literature! Don't be a Kurdishist!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0669	You're doing it! You're doing it! Shame is a sin!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0188par0670	You're Kurdish. You've been Kurdish since the beginning!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0671	Come on, you didn't get a cut of the human race!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0189par0672	Mr. Sakek, please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0190par0673	You didn't take it, dirty!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0674	You didn't take it, dirty! [[Continue]] 1) The presidency's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 EPISODE DETECTIVE EXPERIENCE [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministerial High Control Board 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Constitutional Court Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) President of the Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Court Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Prosecutor's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The Prime Minister's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Prime Ministerate's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2013 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2011 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0191par0712	Members of parliament, on behalf of their members, by way of the Flood Köse, Corum MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0715	Isn't your dead dead and ours dead? They're dirty!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0192par0716	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, of course, have agreed to this budget...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0717	If it's enemy law, use enemy law! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0193par0718	Please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0194par0719	The Prime Minister is looking for you, he says he's sorry.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0187par0720	The Prime Minister is acting like a human being. You be human!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0193par0721	Please, gentlemen, please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0194par0722	I was abroad then, I didn't know. That's what we call it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0195par0723	Mr. President, if you could just start my time again.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0193par0724	Okay.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0195par0725	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, it's possible to criticize this budget in many ways, but the German courts...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0196par0726	You're Kurdish through the funeral. Let go of me! Don't talk, dirty man! What do you mean? You're rude!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0197par0729	You're the dirty one! You're the dirty one!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0198par0730	Mr. President, I'm gonna need...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0199par0731	Yes, please... Rebooting time. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0200par0734	Mr. President, it's possible to criticize this budget in many ways, our friends were going to criticize it, but something else came up today. The corruption of the century by the German courts, the defence of a minister who spied on the defendants of a case that was identified as the theft of the century, has undermined the credibility of this budget and has crippled it from the start. My dear friends, a Republican People's Party MP, the deputy leader of an AKP group, said, "There is no fear of God in this Republican People's Party MP, there is no shame in him, there is no shame in him. There is no shame in him." There is also the fear of God in the People's Party of the Republic, and there is shame in the bondman; and if he makes a mistake, there is a sin in him; but the People of the Republic have no right to eat, and there is no right to eat, nor to spy. There is oppression, persecution, and rebellion, but there is no waging a tail in the face of the strong. The Republican People's Party is the party of those who never surrender even when they are captured, those who are broken when necessary, but never bow down. In the last ten years, you have created an empire of horror in Turkey. You've put pressure on the judiciary, the universities, the media, even Parliament, but as the Republican People's Party, we are determined to bury your empire of fear in history. I assure you, the living will soon see the good days. My dear friends, because this budget is the world's largest economy, because it has no budget, because it makes richer, poorer, poorer, poorer because it doesn't fight poverty and corruption; because it doesn't fix the revenue distribution; because it doesn't fix the real manufacturer, the real manufacturer; although it is the world's 16th largest economy; because it's the world's sixth most corrupt country; because it makes the rich richer, it makes the poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor poor more poor because it doesn't fight corruption; because it doesn't, because it doesn't, because it doesn't, because it doesn't, because it doesn't, because it doesn't, because it doesn't, because it't, because it't, because it doesn't, because it't, because it does, because it't, because it't, because it's the economy, because it's the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the economy of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United of the United States, the United of the United States, the United of the United It is preached with respect to our poor people.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0201par0739	Mr. Köse, thank you. Members of parliament, the talks of lawmakers on behalf of groups and individuals in the first round have been completed. Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. We'll question and answer for 20 minutes. I'll make a promise to our friends who are in the system. Mr. Captain...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0202par0744	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. President has signed the Metropolitan Legislature. In this case, the city municipalities in the tourist district are also removed. In Antalya, for example, the townships of Kash Shield, Büyük, Belk, Alaniah, Mahmouds, Konçak, Avsals, and Okurcas are being removed. Doesn't that mean that the branch we ride in tourism is cut off? Mr. President, when I signed the law, I examined whether there was a conflict with the Constitutional Court's decisions. However, the Constitutional Court's Decision No. 31 October 2008 and 153 are not to be closed. Why didn't the President see this contradiction? Why are the city municipalities in tourism areas closed down?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0201par0746	Thank you, Mr. Captain. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0203par0748	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like to thank all those who have contributed to the establishment of the vehicle tracking system for all service vehicles, other service vehicles, and especially the chairman-in-chief of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Do you think this behavior, which the Secretary General of the Turkish National Assembly has set as an example, should be spread in other institutions? Two: What decision did the Prime Minister make if he asked permission from the Prime Minister, Hakan Fidan, attorney general of the Republic? Three: What is the list of gifts given to the Prime Minister? They're always hidden from the public. I'm just asking to find out. Question four...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0204par0755	Thank you, Mr. Tanal. Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0205par0757	Mr. Speaker, TRT 3 was the mirror of this House, the most natural way for the public to know what was going on in the House. You said "TRT." You said "Protokol." You said "Protokol." What was the initiative of the Parliamentary Assembly to provide TRT literature during the process of the Assembly? Has he made any attempt at this or has his enterprise been half-drawn? Has the House expressed its will? I want to find out clearly. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0204par0759	Thank you, Mr. Aslanoglu. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0206par0761	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to the Speakership. Is it true that they were informed that the salary differences that were not paid during the contract of temporary members of the parliament were made by court order given by some personnel? If so, will this practice apply to all contract personnel and when will these payments be paid? Two: Is Mr. Prime Minister's BOP co-chair still under way? If it's going on, when was this mission given by whom? Another question: At a meeting with the mayors last week, the Prime Minister made a statement that Simav State Hospital was held following the Simav earthquake. The location of the Simav State Hospital is unaccounted for. Who gave the Prime Minister this information? Why is this false information being given to the public? Is there going to be a procedure on the responsible? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0207par0766	Thank you, Mr. Light. Dear Varli...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0208par0768	Thank you, Mr. President. One: Do you intend to make arrangements, improvements on the rights of the members of the Parliament? Two: There have been a lot of different reports in the German press about this Lighthouse case. Here's a lot of information about how these coins are collected to help, but they're being used for personal purposes and political purposes. Where's the Lighthouse investigation at? Are the prosecutors appointed to replace the prosecutors in charge of this investigation? We'd appreciate some insight into that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0209par0772	Thank you, Mr Varli. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0210par0774	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask Allah's mercy and my condolences to his relatives, the police officer Mujahit Daştan, who was just killed in a terrorist attack on the police in Gaziosmanpaşa. My first question: how much of the institutions that the Court should oversee? Is that enough? How much of the control the Court makes from its place, how much from the centre? What is the criteria for checking from your location or from your headquarters? Now, they have always defended the principle of equal wages for equal work. The four-access staff in the parliament receive 1,800 liras and 2,800 liras of contracted personnel who do the same. When are you going to eliminate this injustice? Who gave the Prime Minister the role of co-chair of BOP? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0211par0780	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0212par0782	Thank you, Mr. President. The Court did not submit audit reports for 2011 to the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and is currently waiting in all Turkey's counting places in the sacks of documents and accounts from 2011 for the audit of the Court. There's no storage, no archives, no service left to put these sacks in. When will the Court examine these accounts? My second question is: How many vehicles were taken from the Prime Minister's budget in 2012? What's the catch? What is the number of vehicles rented from the Prime Minister's budget at the same time, and how much was paid for this rental? Again, the number of vehicles purchased for the use of the Prime Minister and the amount of these? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0213par0787	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Mr. Janisari...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0214par0789	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the court committee facing the Lighthouse case has been suspended from serving as a criminal officer for violating legal boundaries. An investigation has been launched into the rights of this panel, and after the trial, it has been revealed that the Lighthouse prosecutors who have been dismissed have not acted against the law, that they have carried out their duty, that the cases filed against them were wrong. Now that the Lighthouse case has been proven to be justified and that these prosecutors have been relieved of their duties simply because they did their duty, what are you waiting for to return to their post to carry out the Lighthouse case? Isn't it a blow to the neutral and independence of the judiciary that shields have been dismissed from judging the crimes committed by those who are close to power? Doesn't the trial of those who tried the defendants in the Lighthouse case mean that the trial of the accused, the release of the defendants, the politicalisation of the judiciary? In this case, can you talk about the neutrality and independence of the judiciary?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0215par0792	Thank you, Mr. Yeniçeri. Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0216par0794	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of the 9th month of 2012, how many files are waiting in the court? Does he need personnel to finalize these files? When will the pile-up of files be finalized? My second question: is there any staff in the National Intelligence Agency who have been tried for their mistakes over the past few years, and if so, how many have been punished? I want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0217par0798	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0218par0800	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what about the request for an investigation of members of the M.I.S. who had been illegally involved in the KCK organization? Where are the results of the prosecutors following this investigation, and where have they been? On the other hand, prosecutors who handled the corruption of the century, known as the Lighthouse, have been judged without trial, as if they had been helped, but who embezzled the money of fitness, zakat, and victims, who bought them ships, set up televisions, and committed political activities. Prosecutors on trial have stated that in this case there is an emperor of thieves and he is protected in every way. Who is this king of thieves? I wonder if the MIT will do something about it, as it did with KPS corruption.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0219par0803	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Gürsoy Erol...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0220par0805	Thank you, Mr. President. With your intermediary, first of all, Mr. Vice President and our Secretary General are here, I'd like to extend a thank you to our House. In particular, as a law-making institution, I want to thank the disabled for their sensitivity in and out of the House, in and out of the parliament, in the name of the disabled. However, since we don't have the necessary stimulus boards here, unfortunately, they're closing up all the beauty that's been done with the parking lot. I'd like to remind you specifically at this point. And since our fellow lawmakers usually park their cars around here, I'd like to ask them specifically not to park in order for this culture to sit down. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0221par0809	Thank you, Mr. Erol. Mr. Yakut, I believe you'll share ten minutes each, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0222par0811	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I ask God's mercy on the martyr who died today in an armed assault. At the same time, I wish God's mercy and condolences on the mother of Mr. Oktay Vural, deputy leader of the National Movement Party. The question of Mr. Tanal is that official vehicles used by the executive agency in the Turkish Grand National Assembly have been set up to track vehicles. There's nothing we can do about other institutions, but I hope this practice becomes common. Mr. Aslanoglu, television broadcasts in Turkey's Grand National Assembly have been carried out by the previous protocol with the TRT. So whatever the protocol is, it's being implemented. All talks are broadcast live during the budget. In addition, at other times, all of the talks are published on the website.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0223par0815	How long was the protocol? Are we gonna listen to this for the rest of our lives?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0222par0816	The question of Mr. Light is that the rights of the personnel of 4/C have recently been improved by the Presidential Court's decision. The 4/C application is not just an application for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Turkish National Assembly personnel receive a salary of twice the amount of other 4/C (C) members of the public. The issue stated during the speech by Mr. Attila Kart (Mr. Attila Kart) is not true in his claim that there was discrimination against the staff. For the first time in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, staff has been actively involved in decision-making processes, as part of the study, polls, talks. ▪ I have a project! I have a proposal! There have been hundreds of opinions and proposals from staff, the first five most popular projects and the awards for the ceremony attended by Parliament Speaker Cemil Cicek. All regulations have been submitted to the staff's view and prepared together. As a matter of fact, the survey results on the staff show that satisfaction. There is no way to interfere with the reports. The witness is the group's vice president, and it's often seen how sensitive they are when compared with the audio recordings. There's no way to understand what it means by a different claim of organization in the Ministry of Reporting Services. Mr. Kart said that instead of the current stenographers, the initiative has begun, again, to carry out a structure within those certain relationships. It is neither legal nor technically possible for a staff working in another unit within the Turkish Grand National Assembly to be appointed stenographers, let alone outside the institution. Stenographer's assistants are taking the Public Staff Selection Exam and subject to about a year of shorthand training. And I don't think it's right to let our friends who work with unsubstantiated allegations be left under suspicion. During the speech of Mr. Korkmaz, Mr. Kuğoğlu and Mr. Kavalıoğlu were asked by Mr. Akçay. The Court's reports that were not sent to the Grand National Assembly in 2012 are the first reports to be submitted according to the new Law of the Court, which has never been sent before. In 2012, the Court did its best to perform all of its duties -- testing, examining, judging -- in the best possible way. Reports that should be sent to the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the first time in 2012 have not been sent to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on grounds of legal reasons and technical impossibilities. On July 12, 2012, the offices of Law No. 6353, which was the historic independent accounting court, and the report assessment board, which was also independent, came across the process of reviewing the reports. The Court's reports were not seen by this agency and the board as being unfit for the procedures and foundations brought by Law 6353. Reconstruction of reports in accordance with the new change failed to reach the date set by the law on September 13, 2012. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0224par0822	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0225par0824	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0226par0825	Why isn't the president of the Court answering, sir? The Vice President is responding. The president of the Court has the authority to answer.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0224par0826	The Vice President can answer, and the Prime Minister can answer. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0828	First, I ask God's mercy on Mr. Oktay Vural's mother, whose place is in heaven, and my condolences on her family, and my condolences to the National Party of Action. We have a martyr in Istanbul today, and I ask God's mercy. First, of course, a few other things were said -- the final speakers -- I'd like to add them here as much as time allows, Mr. President. Of course, Mr. Sakık called me a liar. I don't think I used the word lie, I said wrong, but if there is, I'm correcting it. I didn't say lie. I said wrong. He made a promise to her. Of course, the vice president of the Republican People's Party is, of course, a failure by the Republican People's Party. There's nothing more to say about what's being said than to cling to your own slanders, to the Lighthouse again.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0228par0832	You're the weak one, we're asking you questions, you're fighting the Republican People's Party when you should be answering questions. You're the weak one!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0833	I said everything about it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0229par0834	You didn't say anything.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0835	It's the slander of Mr. Kilicdaroğlu, and I said it that day, and I'm saying it today. I also said that on that day at NTV, on the day of that group meeting, those who are not fond of honor play with the dignity of others. That's what I said that day for your president.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0230par0836	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0837	I'll say it again...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0231par0838	Mr. Secretary, your head of protection...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0839	I've never been mentioned anywhere in that case, it's the slander of CHP's president and CHP's...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0231par0840	You're part of that action.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0841	I'm ready for anything if they do.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0231par0842	I didn't say you called.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0843	The president of the CHP loves to be given six empty files and put on the screen with them. Again, someone handed him six false accusations like that.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0232par0844	It's the bologna file!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0845	I've got my head held high, and that's how we've lived. Your slanders don't get on us, they don't stay on us, they don't exist.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0233par0847	You're going down in the dirt, you're going down in the dirt.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0848	The ones that aren't real, they go back to the mufter. I'm saying this again here, and I've never been anywhere in that case, and I'm not. There are questions about the case here, ask the Attorney General.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0234par0850	Where did the questions go?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0851	Ask the Minister of Justice about those things, and I'm suing them right now for the president of the CHP, those many cases, and I've filed one of them.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0234par0852	Answer the questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0235par0853	Mr. President isn't answering questions, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0854	I'm coming to the questions. Someone here just said, yes, I was taken from the rectory during February 28th, and I was taken for possession. I thank my Lord for every stage of my life, and I am pleased with every part of it, and I will express it here.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0236par0856	It's a deed of honor, an honor.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0237par0857	Of course you're scared.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0858	Mr. Kaplan, answer your questions, it's about the Metropolitan Law. He is better organized in this law, so he will be shown special consideration for the tourism zones. I'm sure that problem will be solved there.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0238par0859	Where was it shown?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0860	There's a process and a couple of questions similar to that of the Undersecretary of MIT. Is there anyone who's served first and is being tried now? There's an undersecretary here, but they'll give it to me as information, and we'll send it in writing. Mr. Light, from the National Movement Party, Mr. Prime Minister, there is only one international formation called the Alliance of Civilities, under the umbrella of the United Nations, which is his co-chair. The Spanish Prime Minister and Prime Minister are co-chairs of the Alliance of Civilities. There's something else going on in that sense... and there's no such thing as a co-chair of something like that.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0239par0862	He said it himself, Mr. Secretary, he said it himself, the Prime Minister himself.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0240par0863	Sir, you're denying the Prime Minister.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0864	I was in Simav, when he made that statement in Simav. The prime minister said there: "The hospital will be taken to the hospital, and I am instructing you. " The hospital has been built, opened, and did not use such a statement. He just instructed my creamer, and he said, "Prepare the land." I was there. Let me get that straight.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0239par0865	Your own mayors are holding a hospital at the meeting. He said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0227par0866	Here, as I have just stated, there are questions about the Lighthouse case, which I cannot possibly know, to the Justice Department, and I will answer other questions in writing. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0241par0868	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0242par0869	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0241par0870	Now, in order of the 1st round...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0242par0871	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0241par0872	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0242par0873	Mr. President, one moment, sir. In his speech, those who are not fond of honor attack in the honor of others. He used the sentence for Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0243par0874	I've used it before, and I've made it public in the same program in NTV.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0242par0875	He says he's used it before in NTV. You used it in Parliament.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0243par0876	He admitted that he called me a mole.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0242par0877	There's bullying, I want a promise.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0243par0878	You know how you didn't mention the word mole? (CHP rows) I said it because he said it, I'm saying it again. Okay?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0242par0879	Sir, he has made a very clear attack on our president, the president of the group. I want a promise, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0244par0880	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0245par0881	He just told you?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0246par0882	Mr. President, that's ancient history. I didn't make any attacks.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0244par0883	Mr. Hamzacebi, please make your statement without further ado.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0246par0885	Mr. President, these are old speeches. They opened it themselves, I didn't open it.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0244par0886	Right, you're right.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0246par0887	I'd like a say in this.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0247par0890	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, are a decent politician who does politics with honor. Admiring his honor does not enter the President's field of duty, his living space. (CHP) Mr. Secretary is the last person to evaluate him. Mr. Secretary, speaking of the Lighthouse, and while you're making some assessments in the framework of judicial institutions, I'd like to ask you once again: German authorities, German courts have ruled corruption on the issue of the largest corruption of the century, and the defendants in their own country have been convicted, and they have said: The main leaders of this have been in Turkey. The prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the state, the public authorities have acted at the speed of the turtle, and the investigation has not been completed for nearly three years, and the indictment has not been completed. The republic's prosecutors who conducted this investigation were dismissed, referred to the courts and tried and acquitted. Look, but the other investigation went at the speed of the turtle, barely went to trial, and the quality of the crime was changed; it was removed from an organized crime, turned into an individual crime. What kind of power does that? Your government is behind this, your government is responsible for its protection. Now, in my speech earlier, I said one sentence missing from the Prime Minister. Yesterday, he said: "Corruption is eating, corruption is forbidden, corruption is eating orphans' rights. Come, let us ask the people who committed these corruptions, and let us remove all immunity, including the Prime Minister's immunity file. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0248par0897	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0249par0899	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0248par0900	Here you go, sir. One sentence, please, from where you're sitting.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0249par0903	Mr. President, I reject what the government has to say and so on, it's a lie. Our government, wherever there is corruption, has gone without fear. That's all I'm saying.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0250par0907	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0251par0908	The Minister of Urbanism has confessed.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0252par0909	Who'd believe that?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit02spe0250par0910	Please... please... [[Continue]] 1) The presidency's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman, Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 EPISODE DETECTIVE EXPERIENCE [[Continue]] 1) Prime Ministerial High Control Board 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Constitutional Court Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) President of the Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Supreme Court Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Prosecutor's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) The Prime Minister's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 2) The Prime Ministerate's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 THE MILITARY RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MILITARY INVESTIGATION [[Continue]] 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2013 Central Management Budget 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2011 Central Management Final Account Now, I'm going to let you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the first round, respectively: I submit to your votes that the presidency be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The presidency's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 157,560.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 157,560.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the president's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The President's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 164,600,000.00 Budget Expenses 159,212,921,77 Canceled allowance 5.387.078.23 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The presidency was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 02) THE GREAT MILITARY OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 773.260.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 773.260.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Grand National Assembly was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will take part in the final account of central management in 2011: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 522,084,501,32 Budget Expenses 470.697.70.70 Canceled allowance 37.070.372.41 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 14.811.169.88 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Turkish Grand National Assembly was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Court's presidency be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Chairman of the Court's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 22.017.500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 30,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 139,539,700 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 3,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 164.587.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Court was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I submit to your votes that the Court's Central Executive Account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Chief Justice of the Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 142.218.928.37 Budget Expenses 120.950.823.20 Canceled Fund 21.268.105.17 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1.237,343,47 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Court of Justice was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of the central administration. I submit to your votes that the Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2011: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Prime Ministerial High Control Board Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] General Total 0.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The Prime Minister's Supreme Control Board was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the President of the Constitutional Court shall take part in the central management budget of 2013: those who agree... those who do not... are accepted. 1) Constitutional Court Chairman's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 7.324,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 30,275,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 37,599.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The chairmanship of the Constitutional Court was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. President of the Constitutional Court for 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) President of the Constitutional Court's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 19,224,000.00 Budget Expenses 14.088.377.25 Canceled Fund 5,135,622,75 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The President of the Constitutional Court was adopted in 2011 as part of the final account of the central administration. I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013 will be passed by those who don't accept... those who don't. 1) Supreme Court Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 26.459.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 116,827,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 143,286,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Supreme Court's final account of central administration in 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Supreme Court Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 89.902,000.00 Budget Expenses 85.801.237.31 Canceled Fund 4.100.762.69 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Supreme Court adopted parts of the central administration's final account in 2011. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013 will be moved to its sections: those who don't accept... those who don't. 1) District Attorney's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 16.187,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 73,273,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Education Services 80,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 89,450,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The court adopted parts of the central management budget in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Prosecutor's Office Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 67,549,500,00 Budget Expenses 58.050.449.61 Canceled allowance 9.499.050,39 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 8.830.776.74 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The district office was adopted into parts of the central administration's final account in 2011. I submit to your votes that the Prime Minister's office will take part in the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Prime Minister's Office's Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 692,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 1.771.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Public Order and Security Services 5.961,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Economic Affairs and Services 47,045,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 07 Health Services 737,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 10 Social Security and Social Services 21.735,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 769,789,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's section of the central management budget in 2013 has been approved I submit to your votes that the prime minister's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Prime Ministerate's Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 6,282,222,522,44 Budget Expenses 5.922.517.395.18 Canceled Grant 359,705,127,26 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The prime minister's central administration account of 2011 was adopted. Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service, I submit to your votes for the transfer of the central management budget in 2013: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.75) THE MILITARY PROPOSITION OF RESPONSIBILITY 1) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 995,569.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 995,569000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the national intelligence agency's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to its specific sections: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Agency (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total grant 620,788,853,50 Budget Expenses 609.794.074.95 Cancelled Fund 10.994,778,55 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 3.902.106.50 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Undersecretary of the National Intelligence Service was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. The Secretary General of the National Security Board for 2013, I submit to your votes that the central management budget will be transferred into its sectors: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.76) GENIAL SECURITY PRODUCTION OF THE MILK 1) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 19,025,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 19.025.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board for 2011, I submit to your votes that the final account of the central administration should be transferred into the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Security Board General Secretaryship 2011 Central Management Final Account I'm reading the general sum of the presidential (A) ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 13.640.400.00 Budget Expenses 13.109.344.69 Canceled Grant 531,055,31 (A) those who accept the ruler... Those who don't... Sustained. The Secretary General of the National Security Board was adopted as part of the central management account in 2011. Members of parliament, the budgets of all departments involved in the first round, and after the separate voting of these chapters, the Presidential Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, the Court, the Prosecutor's Office, the Undersecretary of the Prime Ministership, the National Intelligence Service, the Central Government budgets of the National Security Council in 2013 and the final account of the Prime Ministerial Supreme Control Board in 2011. I wish him well. Congressmans, the first round of talks is complete. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0250par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin the second round of the 2013 Central Management Budget Law Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Final Account for Central Management 2011 E) BASIN RELEASE AND INFORMATION GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Language Institution Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkish Historical Association Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Historical Foundation for Central Management Final Account for 2011 Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The second round includes the Radio and Television Oversight Board, Press-Journal and Information General Directorate, Foundations General Directorate, Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Cultural Centre, Turkish Language Foundation, Turkish History Foundation budgets. Members of parliament, lawmakers who want to ask questions about budgets involved in the tour can enter the system. In the second round, I read the names of the members of the group and their individuals. Republican People's Party: Turgay Develi, Adana MP; Osman Oktay Ekshi, İstanbul MP; Aylin Nazlıaka, Ankara MP; Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP; Sakine Öz, Manisa MP; Gürkut Acar, Antalya MP. AK PARTI: İhsan Şener, Army MP; Tülay Kaynarca, İstanbul MP; İlhan İlikaya, Konya MP; Ahmet Yeni, Samsun MP; Mustafa Atash, İstanbul MP; Hamza Mountain, İzmir MP; Selçuk Özdağ, Manisa MP; Osman Çakır, Düzce MP; Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amassian MP; Osman Ören, Siirt MP. Peace and Democracy Party: Adil Kurt, Hakkari MP; Erol Dora, Mardin MP; İstiye Birtane, Kars MP; Husamettin Zenderlioğlu, Bitlis MP. Nationalist Movement Party: Tunca Toskaya MP; Mustafa Erdem, Ankara MP; Özcan Yeniçeri, Ankara MP; Yusuf Halaçoğlu, Kayseri MP. On behalf of his subjects: Lehnda Ertuğlul Soysal, Yozgat MP; against Ali Halaman, Adana MP. Interrogation in 20 minutes. Now, the first word on behalf of the groups is Turgay Develi, Adana MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Develi, come in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0253par0047	Mr. President, valued members, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group regarding the RTÜK budget. I salute you all. Mr. Necati Çetinkaya, our Adana MP, would have been much more pleased if he had used his time to make statements to Adana, instead of making a beautiful statement to Mr. Prime Minister. Because Adana gave the EC PARTY six MPs, but during the AK PARTI rule, he dropped to the fourth rank of 18, in terms of economic development in terms of the level of economic development. There are serious setbacks, not just economically, but also socially. We are talking about a province in Turkey where unemployment is 26 per cent and 27 per cent by official figures. Now that the Congressman's out, he's making the PM look good. Of course, another democratic flaw is being committed in Adana. However, Mayor Aytaç Durak, who somehow took the court's office from the courthouse, had won the election suspiciously in the local elections, the president of the Supreme Election Board's election, has to be renovated, although he said so. Since three years ago, he has been inexhaustible investigations which cannot be extradited by extension every two months. It has been unfairly removed from its seat again and a disgrace of democracy has been committed in Adana for three years. Dear lawmakers, valued MPs, Parliamentary Television cut their broadcasts on June 11, 2011, with a procedure that would make us imperfect and indecent in front of the world's parliaments, even though it had no legal basis. On the basis of a protocol signed under Radio and Television Act 3984, the broadcasts of Parliament TV have been reduced to three days and four hours a week, while RTÜK Act 6112 has now been changed. That's a shame. For a parliament in third place among the world's parliaments, a non-lawless procedure has been established and the broadcast of Parliament TV has been cut off. Law 6112 has no basis for the current protocol, my friends, not legal. A transaction based solely on the TRT Law and a publication between the TRT General Manager's two lips, the entire Parliamentary will is being mortgaged. This is a bad situation, a bad situation, in the person of Mr. Arinc, in the person of the EC, in the person of the Assembly, and in the person of the Assembly. We've made our appointment with the Speaker, and tomorrow, we'll discuss the legal principles of this with our friends, and we'll continue our efforts to get Parliament TV on the air for 24 hours and a moment. In this regard, we expect support from the EC PARTY, the ruling lawmakers. Friends, thanks to the Radio and Television Supreme Council, Turkey has been transformed into an AKP studio. The studio of the EC PARTY, all televisions, all Turkey's geography. Nothing the Prime Minister doesn't want is coming up, nothing is coming up. Thanks to you, we've solved Behzat Ç.'s drinking problem, and we've solved Demet Akkağ's engagement ring problem, but on some televisions, the girl's virginity is being negotiated. Somehow the AK PARTY government, RTÜK, misses them. And that shame needs to be fixed. I don't understand how it's good for the AK PARTY to have young girls paired up with older men on morning shows and wedding shows. On the Radio and Television Supreme Council, of course, when Turkey is transformed into the script of the EC PARTY, it opens the way for the members of the Oversight on Radio and Television to do some of their own self-responsive applications to ensure that it is done. Friends, the Radio and Television Oversight has the authority to license, contract licenses and oversee literature. It's a board, not an institution. This board now authorises the television she wants to broadcast in Turkey, and does not give it to the televisions she wants. For example, there's this very famous TV 24, you know, that works like an AK PARTY broadcaster. You know, TÜRKSAT can't get any money out of it, so the treasure is loaded again for the price it transfers from cable communications. This television should broadcast from only one province in particular, which is not applied to any television in Turkey, but it broadcasts from 36 provinces without reporting to RTÜK. It's like this on Channel 24, and they get special treatment in the same way. These two televisions, under the protection of the EC PARTY, do not pay the cable fees they have to pay the TKSAT. The director general of Turkey is struggling, saying, "Give us our money." They can't take it. But besides, 371 local and regional televisions in Turkey are locked up when they don't pay a month's wages, their publications are cut off. Also, in a very freaky way, the rights of the constitutional institution of the RTÜK (RTÜK) shall be given to the ministries under Article 11 of the Court of Law No. 662. The ministries task the Radio and Television Oversight to make and publish their own available spots. Friends, how appropriate it is for the law to impose a decree on the Constitution, I leave it to you. Now, I'm going to say a few words about the Great Century. After the Great Century hit the Prime Minister, things got out of hand. It's actually about the Great Century, or our profession... you know, the thing about the apocalypse is that when fascist actions can't solve the problems of today, when they can't build a future about tomorrow, they always look back on the process. Now, here's a suggestion: let them read the books of Oya Baydar. Let them read about the life story of One Baydar. Let them read about the sexual and sexual appetites of the Ottomans. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sırrıyya Önder is not here, and Sultan Mehmet II is the father of the Conqueror. I was going to offer to film the inner son of Murad, but let all of Turkey see what the situation is then. Then it's clear, everyone will know. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0254par0062	Thank you, Mr. Develi. The second word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group is for Mr. Osman Oktay Soşi. Here you go, Mr. Sour. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0255par0067	Dear friends, I've come to present to you the views of the Republican People's Party Parliamentary Group, the Press and Information General Directorate, on the budget of 2013. So, if you'll excuse me, I'll start with the image of the General Directorate falling into the mirror. Last year, the Press-Official Office's official website said they intended to be a reference institution that contributed to the establishment of a realistic Turkish perception in the world and to the establishment of a strong and free press environment. They claimed to be a reliable source of reference. I looked at it, and this year, they've removed that expression, and I think they must have thought that a real sense of Turkey would embarrass them. When they realized they couldn't contribute to the second, the strong and free press environment, they removed it from the site. In fact, due to his realistic demeanor, we must congratulate the authorities of the General Directorate. Yeah, when you talk about a realistic sense of Turkey, it's important to say that the most journalists in the world are imprisoned in this country. Even though your authorities show a number of names among 70 or so people and say they're terrorists, they're sex offenders. They say they do, but those who listen to the authorities say they do, then they talk to us and mock those who make fools of themselves. Were we talking about real Turkey perception? To explain realistic Turkey, one must explain how a person can be kept in prison for a year because of a draft of books that have not yet been released from his computer. We ask the Prime Minister for a college education with no money. Since they're out with posters, it is necessary to explain the freedom of expression for 19 months for the youth of the university to be arrested. With these examples in the middle, who are you going to convince Prime Minister Erdoğan's Corriere Della Sera that freedom of opinion is an untouchable right to me? If the Prime Minister's words reflect the truth, would he have won the position of politician who sued the most journalists in the world? It's called provocative, but as a result, I think it's four months since he's read a poem that I think is wrongfully imprisoned in the reign of a political leader...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0256par0071	And you said "Provocative."
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0255par0072	I did, if you look at it. ...would they sue Fazil Say for a year and a half in prison for a well-known artist who forwarded a poem of Omer Hayyam? In today's Republic, would the prison sentences given to 301 people in 2012 be nine hundred and eight years in total because they did not use freedom of expression as you asked them to? Shall I go on? Would the freedom level of the Turkish press fall to the 148th place among 178 countries? Dear friends, I did some research at the Capitol library a while ago. From 3 November 2002 -- from the day the Justice and Development Party came to power -- to 13 November last year -- in nine years -- Mr. Prime Minister gave a total 185 speech about the attack on the media. That's why the Prime Minister is known as a true media enemy. Taking into account, one may wonder whether the journalist's share of weariness, or the actual service increase, is being removed because of the Prime Minister's hostility to journalists. To illustrate a few examples that I hope you haven't lost your memory: Do you think that Sebahattin Yilmaz and Cem Emir (who died during the Van earthquake) and Ismail Sun (Ismail Sun), who died in the accident of the late Musin Yazoğlu, did not deserve the loss of journalists who were released 80 days after being kidnapped in Syria, who were pushed into every dangerous event, who were attacked on every social occasion, who were attacked on the ground because they had done their duty, and who had received news at the hour, time, without listening to deprivation? More gravely, my dear friends: Today, there are as many as 80,000 intellectual journalists in Turkey. By separating several serious broadcasters, many of these journalists are not even working with a contract of employment, let alone the share of weariness. They are prisoners of the employer, including about 1/20th of 80,000 journalists. In order for these journalists to perform their duties, they must first work on the basis of a contract with the employer according to Law 212. However, Law 212 does not apply because it is not sanctioned to keep the employer in line. The employer is trying to run his business with low quality but cheap human strength. Then you complain about the inferiority of the media. However, many of your own complaints will be eliminated if you remove the proposals offered to parliament to change Law 212, correct them and correct them. But neither the Press and Information General Directorate, which should be involved in these matters, warns you, nor do you show interest in the problem that is so easy to solve in front of your eyes. I don't think it's fair to say that the media service of the Press and Information General Directorate is limited to giving press cards to journalists, setting up seminars, meetings and so on, having them meet in a few places, pretending to take care of foreign journalists when they come in. But there's a lot of things that need to be done, and I'm short on time, so I don't go into details. I think he's responsible for the dire situation involving local media, and I think he's directly responsible for the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information. Local media is like a patient in intensive care today. The technology he uses is recycled, so the machine they import and so forth needs to be taxed, picture, tuition exemption. Business and financing must be strengthened with low interest, long-term loans. Investigative measures must be implemented to unite those who address the same class from the weak financial newspapers. The incentive measures must be organized to the weakest, to the least, to the strongest. A local media support fund should be established for local media, newspaper paper should be subsidized somehow. Energy, communication, must be applied to special recipes in mail costs. The Press and Information General Directorate should initiate serious training processes for local media, instead of showing its relations with local media, with ceremonies, seminars, awards. Dear friends, I'd like to go back to the beginning after I bring these matters to your attention. Turkey's facts are sad because of your political power, not because of the Press - General Directorate of the Press -- but because of your government. Do the freedom of expression for all, including journalists, intellectuals, the business world, the freedom of speech, the freedom of expression of the members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who exercise sovereignty over you, the Turkish nation? Didn't the Prime Minister say to lawmakers from the Peace and Democracy Party that he's so angry with these days that when his place arrives, he tells everyone his place in Parliament again in Parliament? Then can you explain to me why the power of the Grand National Assembly, which is so powerful, is not enough for the TRT General Manager, who is just a flick of the ball? Don't you have the courage to declare this precept in Parliament? Why is it that at this time of your nation's dispute... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I have nothing left but respect for you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0257par0083	Thank you, Mr. Sour. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the third speaker is Ankara MP Aylin Nazlıaka. Mr. Nazlıaka, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0258par0086	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the 2013 budget of the Foundation General Directorate. I salute the supreme court. It's one of our institutions, unfortunately, which is closed to the public, despite these characteristics of the Foundation of Foundations, which operates in cultural heritage and real estate all over our country, which deals with a large number of people due to the area of service. We've never witnessed how many foundations have been audited, how many trustees have been dismissed, what kind of irregularities files have been identified, what costs are leased to the foundations, and how much information has been shared with the public so far. Dear lawmakers, one of the issues mentioned in recent days concerning the General Directorate of the Foundation is the transfer of the Vakifbank shares into the treasury. In a statement issued by Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan in September 2012, he said he would hand over 58.51 per cent of Vakifbank to the treasury. Then again, the General Directorate of the Foundations issued a statement, which, of course, is to warm the public. This statement said that there was no legal obstacle to the transfer of shares, and that along with this era, the uncertainty of the legal status and capital structure of the Foundation would be eliminated. Now, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, is it the political authority or the bureaucrat's job to give you an opinion on the stock transfer of the Foundation? By what authority do bureaucrats make such a statement? Again, a similar question was raised to you during the Plan and Budget meeting, where you made a statement saying that there are some talks in that direction right now, giving signals that the Foundation could be converted into a public bank. So the government, which is counting days to sell the People's Bank, is apparently looking for ways to create another public bank and sell it as well. Now, Mr. Secretary, I know very well that you are a very smart and very powerful person with a memory, and we all know that. I'd like to make a report, and you'll remember right away, about a statement you made when you were Vice-Manisa of the Ponzi scheme in 2000. Look what you've said, Mr. Secretary: the capital of the Bank of Quads does not contribute a penny to the government's capital. In this case, it is against the rule of law and universal law that states in Article 2 of our Constitution to sell a bank that is not its own. I'd like to ask you, do you stand by those words?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0259par0091	You don't have to look at me.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0258par0092	If you're uncomfortable, of course I can talk without looking at you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0259par0093	No, you're looking at me all the time, if you could just talk to the General Assembly...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0258par0094	Okay. It's obvious that the transfer of the trustbank shares to the treasury is not legal, but we want to know what's being done with this process, who wants to be pursued, of course we want to know. It seems that the government has the power to sell what they have at the expense of my death, and now it's staring at the foundation. Gene made another statement in the summer months, and he said: "There will be about 20 restitutions that have been closed and the assets seized will be returned." Of course, no one has any different view of the closure of a foundation that operates within the law code, and we respect that, especially with pressure from some non-democratic forces, we would be uncomfortable with that, because you mentioned the foundations from 1990-2010. And, of course, the extradition is positive in this sense, but it's important to say that you can return it to the institutions, but you will never, ever be able to return it for the reputation you've lost. That's not possible. Dear lawmakers, one of the foundations supervised by the General Directorate of the Foundations is social aid and solidarity. The audit of these foundations, which are particularly important for AKP's success in the elections, is carried out by three different bodies: the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the General Directorate of Foundations. Now, at first, that sounds very nice, three different institutions are overseeing, much more transparent, much more accountability, but unfortunately it doesn't work that way in practice. When we look at it, there are files that have been suspended due to differences of opinion, and they have audits dating back to five or six years. So we're seeing a lot of things locked up here, and the inspection isn't exactly done. So, again, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary how many cash loans have been given over the last five years with the social aid and solidarity network? What's the amount of loans that aren't collected? How much credit does it take to make friends? How many foundations and files have been processed by your investigators? Now I'd like to tell you about another legal massacre. This is related to Article 11 of the Law of the Foundations. In fact, the provision of this clause regulates punishments in case executives fail to provide information and documents prescribed by the law on time, in violation of the truth. But what did the House of Foundations do? He felt the need to make an arrangement on 07/02/2012. These criminal proceedings must have hurt someone, or someone must have been disturbed because their interests were prevented from doing so, which said there could be a change in the law under the new arrangement, and it was said that there would be a change in the law soon, and it was decided to hold up the files on the dismissal of the foundation managers. I ask you, who are you protecting with this practice, who are you protecting? Well, it's been about ten months, and you're going to make a recent adjustment, so you sort of guaranteed that this clause of the law would be put on hold. Well, you haven't issued a law clause in ten months. So, why did you make such a change, and we want to know why the Council of Foundations is positioning itself higher or higher than the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, where MPs are elected by the will of the nation? Mr. Secretary, whose political responsibility is this injustice? The Council of Foundations must resign immediately and immediately, especially the Director General of the Foundations, who has signed such a legal scandal. This is the view of the AKP's government, which has brought democracy and the will of the nation into the country. It's called the ditat of a single party, the dictatorship of the AKP, and the dictator of the Bürocracy, which is the voice of its owner. I wish our budget, our 2013 budget, our country well, with respect.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0260par0105	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. The fourth speaker for the Republican People's Party Group is Mr. Ali Haydar Öner, Isparta MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Proposal, come in. Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0261par0110	Mr. President, I will not address the budget of 2013, the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, the Ataturk Research Centre and the Ataturk Cultural Centre, just to ask questions. Although, the question is famous, where is it true? Has this budget been brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, while Articles of Financial Control 5018 have been met? Were the provisions of the Court's Law fulfilled? Has the financial transparency been observed? Were the principles of transparency, efficiency, controlability, accountability followed? Why was the court audit abandoned? Why was the Court's authority restricted in the court's law? First of all, you left the inspection boards of the ministries out of the picture, assuming you'd turned the Court into a conservative structure, and I suppose the honest auditors within the conservative structure have touched you, which is why you restricted the Court's powers this time? The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History is governed by the Court of Law No. 664. It's October 11, 2011. Was the Grand National Assembly of Turkey closed at this time? Has the sovereignty passed from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to the government unconditionally? What's KHK when the Turkish Grand National Assembly is open? You can laugh about that. Can you pray with my Tayammmu (peace and blessings be upon you) while you have water? You're not just trying to run the country from the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History to 666, you can't show the virtue and courage to bring one to Parliament. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Isn't the Institute for Ataturk Culture, Language and History not only illegal, but also dysfunctional? Did the head of the higher institution, members of the board, have any work on the Ataturk? One of them quit and left, and he was probably more virtuous than the others. With one exception, I'm holding an exception to a member of the Council of the Council of Counsellors who had previously carried out his duties. At what intervals should the High Council gather, why have they not been called to a meeting so far? Why have the Ataturk awards been abandoned? Why has the pride of this country been denied a reward in the name of Ataturk, the leader of the oppressed nations? Why are memberships in international institutions frozen? How can any neglect of duty be associated with the integrity of duty? Ataturk receives from the Business Bank, where does he transfer the money? Isn't that rude? From that bank you will be robbed, and you will betray that bank, and you will betray the inheritance of Ataturk, and you will betray him who bequeaths it. Is that not a great crime in the matter of the law? The 38th ICANAS -- the Congress for International Asia and North African Studies -- was held on September 10, 15th, 2007, when 1,800 people attended an amazing convention. There were 11 titles, books of 4 titles published in 11 volumes. Five years have passed since 2007, and why haven't the others been published yet? On September 24-30 -- in 2012, this is also another issue -- the International Turkish Language Convention met with low turnout in Ankara. About 400 people attended these meetings earlier, 206 attended the last meeting. How many people were paid for the hotel, the luxury, the five-star hotel? Later, during a one - day trip earlier, the meeting, the congress, was kept short; three days' trip to Cappadocia took place. With about 150 people involved, how many roads and accommodation expenses have been paid? A separate issue: Antidemocratic practices were conducted in the Plan and Budget Commission as government officials spoke. There are cameramen there, as the government talks at the Plan and Budget Commission, when the press are talking about the waxed stone age there; when it comes to criticism, where is the Commission's antidemocratic president, the President who insulted lawmakers who joined the Commission, Mr. President who considers him in charge? I wonder when he'll apologize. He's taking out reporters, no pictures, no cameras. What kind of advanced democracy is this? How long will such practices continue? If you can't stand criticism, who can talk about advanced democracy? Are there any rates and status differences between the employees of Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute? Dear friends, about Mr. Prime Minister, we have a great Prime Minister in the Plan Budget Commission. We said, "It's the Great Century," but the advisor of the Great Century has been assigned to the board of directors of Ataturk Culture, Language and History. I don't know what this contradiction is. Also, forgive my ignorance, I didn't know what the Byzantine ladies said to the Great Conqueror, I missed the Prime Minister's speech, and I'll try to find out. I wish we knew what the Byzantine Orthodox priests were saying. My final question is to our members of parliament: our esteemed MPs, MPs of the ruling parties, MPs of the control parties; a majority of them are being held here. My question from our lawmakers is, can we keep our oaths? Do we vote for our minds and conscience? I'd like to pay tribute to our deputies who have served our nation faithfully, and wish the 2013 budget to be a good one. (Applause)
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0262par0122	Thank you, Mr. Proposal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the next speaker is Mr. Sakine Öz, MP of Manisa. Here you go, Mr. Oz. (Applause) Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0263par0126	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Turkish Language Institution budget of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill. I salute the High Council. Dear MPs, the budget, as it is known, is a protected right in our Constitution. Through this right, citizens learn how to get public resources, how to get them, how to use them. Parliaments basically oversee governments through budget law, and budgetary rights are one of the most concrete indicators of the economic basis of national sovereignty and the separation of forces in democracies, an accountable principle of transparency. Transparency budgets can't be expected to produce healthy results. Governments create total chaos with revenue resources and expenditures that they don't explain enough. The people's will is underestimated in the environment where budget preparation is being reduced by governments to a simple democratic process. During the open, clear, transparent, law-abiding audit of the House of Nations, in the time and time of Parliament, when, as you call it, the spending and income pens that have been completed are organized in the name of who knows what partisan interests, which table is cut off and transferred to which table, what new rich people are used to create, what regimes are used to change in foreign policy? Congressmans, as we discussed the 2012 budget last year, my friend just told me, and I would like to say to the AKP's government and to the Speaker of Parliament, we do not have the three audit reports that the Court must submit to the Plan Budget Commission before the budget process of the General Assembly. We don't have qualified information or opinions on whether public expenditures will be made healthy. Although we wanted to, these reports could not be delivered. Although our Minister has just made a statement about this, but I don't think he believes it himself. Under the circumstances, the budget, including the Turkish Language Institution budget, faces a general transparency, accountability problem. If our parliament can't use its control authority, if it sees it as a bureaucratic process or unnecessary detail during budget building, we're in open danger to our democracy. Precious MPs, the Turkish Language Foundation is a building block of historical value founded to spread the history of our Turkish language, one of the most important symbols of national consciousness and culture that Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk put on a special mission in the republic's values. During September 12th, all of the republic's institutions wanted to be forgotten about meaning and importance, but it was primarily started by icon institutions such as the Turkish Language Foundation. In a show-of-the-art Ataturkism, the revolutionary, modern goals of the Turkish Language Foundation were tried to be obliterated, to be placed in a position far away from the understanding of the Turkish Language Agency's passive age. Today this process continues in the AKP's power. A total of 45 billion, 2 million, 167,100 lira allowances for private budgetary institutions have been earmarked for 12 million and 793,000 liras in the 2013 budget bill to the Turkish Language Foundation, which is one of the special budgetary institutions. In total, it corresponds to about 3.5% per thousand. This part of the budget is not enough, however, when compared with last year's data, some of it has been improved. The position of Ataturk, who is conducting public publishing and investigative activities for the development of the Turkish language, is upsetting to us today. The Turkish Language Foundation is far away from an age-appropriate research and publishing operation. It seems that the funding for the Turkish Language Foundation will not be enough to reach the level of public research and publishing of our age, and even the difference will be made. Mr. Prime Minister 2023 mentioned high-tech standards in yesterday's budget speech, where he was referring to his targets. Then why is the Turkish Language Foundation's understanding of research and publishing deprived of advanced technology? Dear lawmakers, the AKP government is not giving up on its authoritarian position today, which it has repeatedly complained about during the September 12th referendum. The great leader, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, fulfills his goals in establishing the Turkish Language Foundation. It continues the cultural destruction of September 12th. Yes, the AKP deepens the cultural policies of September 12th, custodian, authoritarian, separatist. The Turkish-Islamic ideology suit, which was dressed together with the Turkish Language Foundation on September 12th, is now expanded to grow conservative generations with all its power, different ideas are excluded, tagged. The modern, secular, different identities that Ataturk was aiming to establish the Turkish Language Foundation are being cleared of the concept of research and distribution of Turkish, a symbol of our national values, which respects different identities on the basis of citizenship. You'll remember, over the past few months, the press has had a huge buzz. In some publications of the institution, the establishment of the Turkish Language Foundation has been severely undermined by the expression "linguistic," "discrimination of language, religion, identity, gender." This understanding lowers the public reputation of the Turkish Language Foundation. Dear lawmakers, staffing at the Turkish Language Foundation, pushing the quality of research and publication into the background, a partisan understanding is under way. Those who have been given high pay in audit reports are appointed managers of the institution. At this rate, the word "Liyakat" will soon be removed from the Turkish Language Association Dictionary. Mr. President, in the 2013 budget, when we discussed the grant to the Turkish Language Foundation, the AKP apparently took the justice into its own hands and deleted it overnight from the Turkish Language Association Dictionary. Only our authors, journalists, and politicians, who express their opinion and use their language in the best way, are in prison. This is where I salute our citizens, who have not been fueled by the ambition of office, who have earned their bread with their pen, who have been imprisoned for years for thinking and running their profession, seeking justice. I wish to meet our fellow prisoners in freedom on December 13th. I hope that the 2013 budget will at least meet the demand for justice, equality, prosperity and freedom for all our people, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0264par0139	Thank you, Mr. Oz. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the last speaker is Antalya MP Gürkut Acar. Mr. Acar, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is eight minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0265par0144	Mr. President, I have been promised to share my views on the Turkish Historical Foundation's 2013 budget. I salute you. Turkey is on the verge of breaking. Therefore, serious tasks and responsibilities fall to the Turkish Historical Foundation, where I talk about its budget, but it must be discussed whether it is sensitive or not. The Republic of Turkey is a revolution of enlightenment, a step towards modernity, rationality, and today Turkey is in a different position from many countries in its region, an indication that the election in its establishment has been made right. If Turkey is to continue its course as a modern, independent and honorable country, it can only do so by maintaining the unchanging qualities of the republic, there is no other way. There is no place to arrive by bending and bending the qualities of the Republic; by turning the republic upside down; by scraping the Ataturk, the Ataturk principles from the laws, the educational institutions; by trying to erase them from the hearts of the people, and from the hearts of the nation. The only place to go with that head is destruction, and we're not gonna let that happen. Dear friends, the number of those who have visited Ataturk, who have visited and thanked him since 2000 is 70 million. At the same time, the number of foreigners visiting the Memorial amounted to 4 million. In the last 29 October and 10 November there were no censuses, but the 100,000 were there, and the 100,000 went to the Atah. There's a point to this, that maybe the power doesn't want to understand it, that maybe it doesn't know what it means. At this point, a task falls to the Turkish Historical Society: it is its duty to explain Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the War of Salvation, the Republic, to the power today. Tell those who have deleted the name of Ataturk from education, educational institutions, websites, that UNESCO has described Ataturk as the leader of National Fighting and Modernisation. Genius such as Ataturk comes every hundred years. Tell them what foreign statesmen say. To think like Ataturk, tell them that the Norwegians produced an expression and imitated it. British Prime Minister Lloyd George in 1922 says that hundreds of years are rare. It's our misfortune that the great genius was given to the Turkish nation in our time. I say 90 years later: Look at our misfortunes today, the rulers of Turkey are trying to erase the great genius's name, his meaning. Yes, Turkey is having such misfortune. The name of Ataturk is being erased from one of the institutions that Ataturk had established and had a share in his inheritance. There's no way to figure that out. If that's not unfortunate, then what is it? Dear friends, first of all, I would like to say that the Republican People's Party is not being given a cent of the shares of Ataturk's Business Bank. The numeral income has been assigned to the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Society by that great man. The Turkish Historical Institution is an institution founded by the great Ataturk, such as the Turkish Language Foundation, which leaves a portion of its heritage and wants it to work in the light of reason and science. However, the coup d'états of September 12 have transformed these two institutions into state offices. The AKP has taken this disrespect one step further with a decree under the law. When the coupists made these two institutions state offices, they wrote in the law that they were founded by Ataturk. And the idea of being staffed in the appointees -- my friends just told me -- goes on and on. In the institutions of Ataturk, such as everywhere, the AKP is dominated, and the sovereignty clearly shows itself in these appointments, the link between Ataturk and these institutions is being severed. , Athecustomism is bigotry. They are appointed managers of these institutions. But when the appointed ruler reacted to the Turkish people, he had to resign from Ataturk's institution. It is said that these institutions have been done to them from other areas before. It has been done, but then it is bigotry. Those who say, "No one has been appointed, that is the difference. Dear friends, only the name Ataturk is mentioned when the income of these institutions counts. No Ataturk, but he's got money. It is simply shameful to try to erase the traces of Ataturk (Ataturk) with the money of Ataturk. See, there's a fact that all world lawyers know: the will is a legal arrangement for private law. A person decides for himself who his property belongs to after he dies. The wills can be revoked or partially changed over appeals by the courts, but cannot be changed by the law. The will cannot be violated by the law. The will and property given to Ahmet could not be passed to Mehmet by law, but the AKP did so, and the coupists did so. I condemn both of these mentalitys. Dear friends, look, there is another point: the Turkish Language Foundation and the Turkish Historical Institution are funded by the shares of the Business Bank, which are funded by the heritage of Ataturk. My friend just told me that the Business Bank works, manufactures, earns, transfers funds to these institutions, and almost all of these institutions are funded from here. But today's administration takes this money from the Business Bank and transfers it to other banks. What do you call that? It's called disloyalty, it's called disrespect, it's called ingratitude. What does Mustafa Kemal Ataturk say in his will? He says it'll be taken care of. What's the collection? For these institutions, money is set aside, and according to its purpose, payment is paid from the amount that is divided as the spending is made according to the rules. That's the way it is in the state budget, but when it comes to the Business Bank, the will is once again violated. This attitude is immoral, disrespectful to the will and to the Ataturk. Dear friends, now, there are allegations that new steps will be taken on these. Using all kinds of false documents, creating all kinds of cd▪ in the AKP's administration, arrests of people by false claims have become common practices. We've been getting reports of similar frauds being prepared at the Business Bank. Remember, Turkey's Business Bank is Turkey's bank. It is a serious bank that has made serious contributions to Turkey, produces, employs, is Turkey's largest bank. Like all Ataturk institutions, the government has to target the Business Bank, but it's never an acceptable step. The Business Bank was first expelled from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and was expelled. Then, the inheritance of Ataturk was taken from here and transferred to other banks, and now you're trying to take over the bank through deception. We warn you from here, remove your hand from Ataturk, and from the institutions of Ataturk. The Republican People's Party is responsible for the use and protection of Mustafa Kemal's shares in the Business Bank in accordance with his will, and is a legal figure assigned to it. We're warning you, move your hand, your hand will burn. Dear friends, look at the AKP's core staff, all enemies of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. They are sworn enemies of the republic, sworn to destroy all the works of Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0266par0155	Don't abuse, abuse! You're all blushing.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0265par0156	The core staff is surrounded by the right voter, like a chocolate in the middle of which there is poison, an enemy of secularism and Ataturk, who didn't get more than 7.5 percent of the vote for imperialism. My dear friends...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0266par0159	It's over, it's over, you're quiet!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0265par0160	Yeah, we've been cut off, but we'll never be cut off... This budget, unfortunately, is not a budget for charity in Turkey. The Turkish people see what's going on, and the Turkish people -- they turn around, one day they'll come back -- they'll have to answer to you one day. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0267par0164	Mr. Acar, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0268par0165	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0269par0166	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0268par0167	Mr. President, the testimony of the speaker regarding our group's leadership of our party is extremely ugly. I want your word on that, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0270par0168	Here you go, two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0268par0172	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I'm afraid you haven't been able to remove your hand from Ataturk.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0271par0173	You can't say it, you can't say it. - Just yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister's testimony is here. What we've always said... we've never had a problem with our republic, with the values of the republic. I'm glad it didn't happen!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0272par0176	We have a problem with those who think they own the Republic. We have a problem with you. Because you're an empty Ataturkian and unfortunately... can you tell me that we've read good bad Turkish political history and you've read it? Nur Hajji, you read it, Suheyl Hajji, you read it. For God's sake, in Turkish political history, when did you claim the legacy of Ataturk? When did you put rocks on rocks in this country? In the spiritual heritage of Ataturk, the AK PARTY also carried out its ideal to praise the Republic of Turkey, the sons of the republic sitting at this time. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You take your hand away from Ataturk, you deal with yourself first, and then you study a little. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0273par0181	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0274par0182	Freedom and independence are my characters.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0275par0183	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0273par0184	Here you go, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0275par0185	Mr. Speaker, I'd like to say that the Republican People's Party advocates empty Ataturkism.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0273par0186	Here you go, sir. In two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0275par0189	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the famous American political scientist Samuel Huntington, have a thesis called the Battle of Civilities. He also came to Turkey, and an interview was published in the newspapers. In an interview published both in that book and Turkey, Turkey made the following assessments: Turkey is a divided country between civilizations. It's a country that can neither be eastern nor western, but has lost its bearing between the two. Kemalism has failed. Turkey therefore recommends that Ataturkism set aside Kemalism and set an example for the world of Islam. Let him have a functioning democracy, a Parliament, and put aside secularism for that. Because it is not possible for a secular Turkey to set an example in the Islamic world. The reason Huntington proposed this is that after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the greatest danger to the West will come from the Islamic world. Thus, to tame the Islamic world, to prevent it from becoming a threat to the West, Turkey must set aside secularism, Ataturkism, and set an example for the Islamic world. So, the AKP is the party of a project just like this, a party that has emerged in such a process. (HPP) You are doing your duty successfully as AKP. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0273par0192	Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0276par0193	Mr. President, the AK PARTY is not a project party, it's a public party. Who has fought this nation so far is the subject of political history; I leave it to the nation's discretion.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0273par0194	Thank you. Your words have passed. [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Final Account for Central Management 2011 E) BASIN RELEASE AND INFORMATION GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Language Institution Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkish Historical Association Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Historical Foundation for Central Management Final Account for 2011 My dear friends, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the first speaker is Mr. Ihsan Sener, MP of the Army. Here you go, Mr. Sener. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0277par0230	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Radio and Television Oversight budget of 2013. I salute you all. Before I speak, I begin my speech by wishing that the United Nations Commission for Human Rights, which was considered Human Rights Day on 10 December 1948, would create a happy Turkey based on justice, equality, freedom. In 1994, radio and television broadcasts were assigned to Radio and Television Oversight with Law 3984. The effects of technological advances in the field of communication on the visual, auditory publishing sector were new opportunities, while new arrangements for meeting new expectations and needs were also mandatory. Therefore, on March 3, 2011, the Law on Radio and Television Services 6112 and our publishing legislation on the basis of the day, the needs and expectations of our people and sector, and also the standards of the European Union, which is the broadcast geography that we are in. With this law, the legal framework was established by allowing new technology to be used, and the authority to plan national frequency has been restored to the Radio Television Oversight. The law, which covers recent developments in the communication and publishing sector, has also brought new openings to eliminate uncertainty about implementation of new broadcast technologies, such as Internet-based television, digital broadcasting and high-resolution television, and as part of the law, the transition to terrestrial numerical broadcasting has been set. In fact, in our country since 1994, the tender for territorial broadcasting had not been made available to give us the license. For the first time, with Law 6112 in effect, this matter, which has been dragging on for years, has been resolved. Because it was given to the Radio Television Supreme Council to determine the national and international bases of monitoring and listening measurements conducted by the law, and for this purpose -- by the top board -- on 17 October 2012 -- that the regulations on how to measure Watch and Rest for Broadcast Services and be audited were implemented. The Radio and Television Oversight Board depends on complaints, and resonates through its own experts. Meanwhile, complaints and e-mails from the website are also noted. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, one of the major activities of the Radio Television Oversight is the work of protecting children from negative broadcast content and the awareness of public awareness. The media-reading class is of special importance from activities carried out for this purpose. The media readership class, which came to the agenda of the RTÜK (RTÜK) in 2003, is later held as an elective class in our schools with joint project studies conducted by national education. In fact, the partners of the Radio Television Supreme Council in advanced democracies are independent and autonomous institutions, and Turkey is run as an official institution. If the media in Turkey successfully maintains its own internal controls, and they gain a certain distance in this matter, we hope that in the coming years, a formal institution will not need to oversee radio and television broadcasts and the auto-control system will become institutional. Because of the successful work of the Radio and Television Oversight, I congratulate the president and his colleagues who were there, and wish that the Radio and Television Supreme Council budget of 2013 be a blessing to our nation, to our country, to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0278par0239	Thank you, Mr. Sener. Second speaker for the AK PARTI Group, İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca. Here you go, Mr. Boiler.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0279par0243	Mr. President, I've made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Radio Television Oversight budget of 2013. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the Radio Television Oversight Board is an organisation that allows radio and television broadcasts to be organised and audited in Turkey. So I'd like to draw attention to the work and activities of the sector. Radio-television broadcasts are classified as broadcasts in territorial, cable and satellite environments, and 120 televisions, 1 radio, which are given cable licenses on top board; 225 radios and 74 radios licensed satellite broadcasts; and a total of 247 televisions and 1.059 radio companies in the terrestrial environment have license applications. However, the tender has not been made to give licenses to all these organizations since 1994. In 2006, at the International Telecommunications Union meeting, Turkey signed a decision to move to territorial publishing with other countries and to end analog literature as of 2015. Hence, the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Television No. 6112 has also launched numerical transitional studies. Of course it's a process. Within the first year, the frequency was planned. The following is expected to complete the ranking tenders in March 2013. After the authorization of the donor plant and business company to establish and operate the transmitters again, digital television transmitters will be installed by the company in November of that year, including Ankara, Bursa and Istanbul, and will be completed by December 2014. December 2014, I'm drawing the line carefully. Shutting down analog transmitters is scheduled to be completed in March 2015. So all of this will be resolved in accordance with the statute of limitations. Dear lawmakers, I would like to stress a few issues regarding the control activities of the RTÜK (RTÜK). About 110 TVs and 80 radio broadcasts are monitored and archived and analyzed 24/7 in Ankara headquarters. The audit is as follows: Direct control by experts through the communications channel, web site and e-mail channels. The January-September 892 decision was made, but interestingly, 81 per cent of this decision is related to advertising violations. Most complaints to the RTÜK Communication Centre are related to the general morality of literature, against the principle of family protection. In the last nine months, 55,884 notifications are also an indication of sensitivity to the subject. Let's point out that the Oversight Board does not have the authority to monitor the programs in advance or to remove them from the air. He'll just check it out and apply it if he has to. Finally, I'd like to point out the importance of the Supreme Council's efforts to protect children from negative broadcast content and public awareness. Recent studies have shown that students watch television on average for three hours a day, 52 percent view television as an important communication tool, and some 81 per cent watch television with their family. Therefore, the importance of media-reading classes that have been co-operated by the Ministry of National Education has been revealed. Dear lawmakers, the 2013 budget of the Radio Television Supreme Council has been envisioned as a $162m grant based on studies that we have drawn with the main topics above. I wish him well, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0280par0253	Thank you, Mr. Boiler. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the third speaker is Konya MP Ilhan İnikkaya. Here you go, Mr. Indiankaya.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0281par0257	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the 2013 Financial Year Budget Act, the budget of the Editor-in-Chief of the Press-References Department. I salute you all. At the beginning of my words, I wish that the week of the Lord, which was carried out every year between December 7th and December 17th, was a blessing. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers continue their activities with 17 county departments, 39 foreign agencies, which are called the Press-Information General Directorate, which was established in 1920, and is named after the law issued in 1984. The agency's news station is 8:00-21 every day. He works three shifts between the hours of 00 hours. In the event of significant developments, the news centre sets a longer working time and moves on to a 24-hour working system. In a total of 21 languages, including English, French, German, Arabic, Russian, they scan about 350 websites daily, as well as newscasts by television channels, Reuters, AFP, AP agencies for 24 hours. Compulsors from the news centre are able to access the first editions of 1,700 newspapers published in 48 languages in 92 countries and are able to scan these newspapers in 21 languages and record reports about Turkey. About 5,000 daily news reports from all these news sources are carefully evaluated, including comments, comments, current developments, translation of important news comments concerning Turkey. Radio and television recordings are being scanned, news and programs related to Turkey are being cropped into clips and translated and can be delivered to the top authorities of the state immediately. From all news comments used in informing the state's top management, the external media has been selected to publish it on the website under the name of Turkey's Journal. Also, important news and comments in Turkish media are translated into English, French, German and Russian. It is put on the website of the institution to contribute to our country's promotion. Special bulletins are being prepared during current developments and important visits. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are holding local and regional media meetings with local media in different parts of the country. Again, our General Directorate publishes The Voice of Anatolia monthly to create a source for newspapers in Anatolia. Again, our General Directorate also organises traditional competitions. In addition, the written press, which publishes at least daily or weekly literature abroad, offers awards in Turkish's right use, with the introduction of Turkey. Another area of activity in our General Directorate is the setting of press cards under the Press Card Charter. In areas such as transportation, communication and so on, agreements are made with various institutions to provide an advantage over goods and services. As of November 1, 2012, the number of pressmen carrying press cards was 14.164. The Editor-in-Chief of the Press-Journal Information, also published since 1925, has been published in 12 languages this year. The institution continues its work in order to promote state and government activities, public communication and public diplomacy activities, as well as to ensure that foreign public opinion is informed correctly and firsthand about the current general issues of our country. This kind of service by the Department of Public Information shows that there really is an outside window for our country. Our budget is 154 million 117,500 Turkish liras. And I wish you all the best luck with our budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0282par0274	Thank you, Mr. Indiankaya. Mr. Ahmet Yeni, MP of Samsun. Here you go, Mr. New.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0283par0278	Mr. President, I'm not going to tell you about the banks that went down today. Who screwed up, what did he do? We've been talking about this every year, but our BDDK speaker friend is going to share with you where the banks that we're in charge have come to. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the budget of the General Directorate of Foundations in 2013 as part of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and the 2011 Central Management Computation Act bill. I hereby salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the General Directorate of the Foundations is a special budgetary institution among the public administration under the central administration, and its budget is under the 15th Article of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018. Dear MPs, just as our ancestors have formed a human-oriented civilization, so that we can keep the people we've taken over so that the state can live. We continue to serve with consciousness. We are proud to be the sons of a civilization that has worked to bring man and life to the center of life. The poor poor man, the poor, the homeless, the way he thinks he's on the road, he's thought of migratory birds, he's built a foundation civilization. It's our job to update that understanding and keep track of what's left of them. For this reason, we have never looked back on our history as a passing time period, nor have we turned our backs on our history and our historical heritage; nor have we forgotten that the most important thing that made us as countries and nations is our history. For this reason, our government viewed the foundation issue as one of the most important issues in the country. Precious lawmakers invest in the country's vastly broader and diverse activities of the Foundations General Directorate, which has been its representative and its executives have not survived, in the name of the 42,000 Foundations, restoring their old works, and meeting the charity's charity's charity requirements. The General Directorate of Foundations has contributed $2 billion $600m to the economy over the past decade, creating jobs for 70,000 people. The 3,750 foundation has risen, and the restoration of 250 works continues. Currently, at the Bezmilalem Foundation University Hospital, where he is founded, the needy are being treated without a contribution, with 40 per cent of people with no social security, and 5,000 needy children with children with more than 40 per cent disabled, continue to pay $383 for the poor. The General Directorate of Foundations provides education aid for 15,000 students from children of needy families who are educated at elementary school, secondary school and high school. More than 20,000 families are taking advantage of the 15 pens and the dry food aid delivered directly to their headquarters address. Mr. President, we have the honor of restoring the relics of the horse that were left to rot. One of the most distinguished examples of the world architecture of the architect Sinan, the Mosque of Süleymaniye, the Mosque of Fatih Sultan Mehmet. The Yenikapı Mevlevihane, which was almost incinerated after four fires, was restored during our time, by force by the harshness of the centuries, by Yavuz Sultan Selim Mosque, Nuruosmania, Mihrimah Sultan, Middle Mosque, and many more of the monuments. In Samsun, my constituency, there are 19 mosques that have been restored, including inn, Bedouins, libraries, soup kitchens, and tribes that have been left in ruins, and when we look at them, the relics that have been twisted in our hearts have been lifted up. Four million 551,000 TL -- four trillion 551 billion -- were spent in restoration studies in Samsun alone; Seyyed Kudbetttin Mosque and Turbé in our province of the province, Market Mosque in Terme, Army Village Mosque in Wednesday, and many other works have been repaired. We're talking 3,750 works in ten years, Mr. Lawmakers, and this is 375 pieces a year. We continue these studies day and night, and we will continue in the service of the foundation. As we were doing all this, our nation came forward, took over the government, with great self - sacrifice, tireless enthusiasm, and served. They have served, and have produced, and have left traces. May God be pleased with them. It will be enough for us to receive their prayers. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0284par0288	Thank you, Mr. New. The next speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is Mustafa Atash, İstanbul MP. Here you are, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0285par0292	Mr. President, I've been promised the budget of the Foundation General Directorate in 2013. I salute your high council. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as you all know, from the first budget prepared by our EC PARTY government to the 2013 budget where we're currently negotiating. We've announced their 2023 targets, and we're doing them all one at a time, and sometimes we're converting targets to action before they're scheduled. Now I'd like to talk about the duties and actions and goals of the Foundation General Directorate, whose budget we've discussed. Dear lawmakers, the concept of the time is the institutionalization of a form of cooperation and solidarity that demonstrates the impact and presence of social life in all areas. The main point of this institution's survival is to promote and sustain the consciousness of the foundation. We are the heirs of a world of thought, a civilization of hearts, that puts man and man at the center of everything, because the civilization we take over from our ancestors is a foundation civilization. As there are fundamental dynamics that sustain every civilization, no doubt, our foundation is the foundation of our civilization, which creates cooperation and solidarity. Our ancestors discovered the concept of civil society, which Western societies have just begun to explore, a thousand years ago. Dear friends, yesterday, December 10th, was the World Day of Human Rights. With my experience from the Human Rights Commission, which I've been a member of, I can clearly say that today means that no matter where you live anywhere in the world, you get our rights from being human. Today, what Western civilization calls civil civilization is what human values are called a prerequisite, which is actually the foundation civilization that we inherited from our profession, because in our society, language, religion, race, and nationality serve the human being without regard. Mr. President, I'm going to briefly refer to the chief duties of the Foundation General Directorate -- in order to remind your senior delegation -- for these purposes. These tasks are to promote the idea of the foundation in our country and in the world, to make sure that its foundations are evaluated in a way that meets our age and brings us the highest income, and to ensure that our foundations are restructured and act according to their purpose, given practices in the European Union countries. Healthily fulfilling the terms and services written in the trust bonds with the vacations, making our foundations a modern foundation. The foundation with architecture and historical value is to ensure the preservation, repair and survival of monuments and works of art. Dear lawmakers, the General Directorate of the Foundations, established in the Ottoman and Seljukian era, maintain the corporate personality of the non-existent foundation, allowing it to continue its activities today, as its founders envisioned. From yesterday to today, it is possible that the foundation phenomenon, which we believe to be a very important trust in our future, is being kept alive, is acting in accordance with the fact that it is based on the foundation. The General Directorate of Foundations, with this consciousness, performs numerous charities for the foundation's purposes. The students are granted scholarships, monthly commitments to needy citizens with no social security, food benefits for needy families, and restorations of thousands of years of foundation. The 3,750 foundation was restored in our time, as Ahmet New Bey, our Samsun MP, who spoke before me, stated. The rulings before us failed to demonstrate the ability to restore even one tenth of this. Whether there were foundations or not, the AK PARTY showed itself during its reigns. So what we want to do is to reinstrate the foundation civilization in this country, and, as I've just expressed, we've been able to offer these services to everyone without looking at language, religion, race and sectarianism. Dear friends, in the time of the AK PARTY, we carry out our actions successfully, and we are being rewarded by our nation with praise. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So far, we are a political party that has held three general elections, two local elections, two referendums, and a political party that has successfully received our report card from our nation. Let no one try to underestimate the success of the AK PARTY. Guys, the AK PARTI's report card is in the polls every election period.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0286par0302	Thank you, Mr. Paperman.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0285par0303	In this feeling and thought, I wish you all the best in the 2013 budget.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0287par0305	It's a broken report card this time! You don't even have supplies, you stay direct.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0286par0306	The next speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is Mr. Hamza Mountain, İzmir MP. Mr. Mountain, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0288par0309	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group on the budget of the President of Ataturk Culture, Language and History High Foundation under the Central Management Budget Bill of 2013. On this occasion, I salute you all. The establishment of the Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was envisioned by Article 134 (a) of the Constitution of 1982; the Turkish Historical Institution, founded in 1931, was established on 17/08/83, including the Turkish Language Institute, the Ataturk Research Centre and the Ataturk Cultural Centre. Problems stemming from gaps in the Law of Ataturk Culture, Language and History Law have been resolved, and institutions within the institution and have a sound legal and technological infrastructure and qualified human resources. The institution budget was set to be 8 million in the Central Management Budget Law in 2012, while the Central Management Budget Law in 2013 was set at 8 million, 260,000, and increased 3.5 per cent. Thanks to the legal arrangements and the institutional structure provided with its increasing budget, the institution is signing successful works and developing projects that are in line with its purpose every day. In this framework, the collections of Ottoman research from Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Middle East, the Balkans' social and cultural history, the Mediterranean world, historical resources, religion and religious thinking, science and thought, Turkish law history, 19 and 20th century Ottoman research, which began in 2011 and will continue in 2013. The AK PARTY's power allows all of our institutions to operate with a proactive vision, rather than watching the world's developments, such as previous rulings, and implementing the policy of waiting. For this reason, many of our institutions, such as the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History, contribute to the vision of Turkey in many areas from the Balkans to the Caucasus, from the Middle East to Europe. In 2011, the hardware part is being completed, and the project for the Computed Information Infrastructure and Integrated Information System continues. This project will provide high, sustainable, expanding services for citizens, researchers and other institutions and institutions within the e-state. The implementation of databases, designs and software on certain issues of importance and priority for our country is also intended to integrate all of these into existing national and international systems. This will allow the high institution portal to become the gateway to the world of Turkey, the Turkish world, Turkish civilization and the Turkish nation. The grant system project, launched and continued in 2011, continues to be granted scholarships at universities, undergraduates, doctorates and post-doctorates, and undergraduate students who are trained in the objective and principles of the institution. In 2012, the institution granted 265 scholarships to graduate degrees, PhDs, and later studies, while continuing scholarships in 2013 will provide 420. As part of the Project to Translate Basic Thoughts, Sciences and Arts of Different Cultures into Turkish, translations continue for 972 works proposed by the university. The Electronic Document Management System Project will be completed by the end of December 2012 to facilitate the access, sharing of employees and other institutions in order to ensure that all documents and institutions within the institution are managed, stored, archived, and archived. The institution, however, gives the best answers to those who criticize the agency's appointments. Each year, the institution adds new ones to its achievements, producing new projects. Yes, although the opposition did not understand the meaning and purpose of this institution, thankfully, there is a power now that understands and gives this institution what it deserves. I wish our country's budget and the budget of the Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, which is of great importance to its history, language and culture, and that our budget for 2013 should be a blessing, and I salute our great Assembly.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0289par0322	Thank you, Mr. Mountain. The next speaker on behalf of the AK PARTY Group is Mr Selçuk Özdağ, MP of Manisa. Mr. Özdağ, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0290par0327	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ataturk Research Center. I salute your high council. Nations live with their heroes. ▪ Heroism should not only be understood in the battlefields, it should not be understood to be brave, it should be an arc. There are heroes of literature, of humanity, of the heart and of the faith, of our world and of our politics. Gazi Mustafa Kemal, like Alparslan, like Yavuz, like Fatih, is one of the great historical figures of our nation, such as the Law. Its importance comes from its struggle and from the fact that a new state builder is the Bani of the state of the Republic of Turkey. What makes it permanent is that he and his friends, the country we live in today, took it from the mouth of the imperialist monster and entrusted it to the people. Gazi Mustafa Kemal did not build the state of the Republic of Turkey from another planet or country; he was a soldier and a politician who fed on the centuries-old traditions of a great history and civilization such as Seljuklu and Ottoman. He spent twenty-five years of his life as a military student and officer of the Ottoman Empire, including Tripoli, the Balkans and Çanakkale, for thirteen years. Dear lawmakers, one of the most important dangers that awaits historical figures is that they are not understood correctly or their ways of understanding are blocked. If you look at history on the ground of hate, you can't see anything. Hate prevents rights and taboos from seeing wrongs, whereas right and wrong are destined for every historical figure. The mistakes of a man who has done good deeds will not devalue him, but the exceptions of another personality are not enough to express him. For him, it is one of the greatest injustices to perceive the life, life, life, and actions of Gazi Mustafa Kemal, just after 1919. Ataturk is a great statesman who has done good work, but has been criticized from time to time, like every historical figure. Although he is the most spoken, most spoken, he is also the least understood person of the Republic era, because, instead of describing him, he was either described by an imaginary person whom they carved with their own imaginations, or they were able to be understood by creating an untouchable space around him. No historical person who has not been described in a critical eye is truly understood, for it is known that it is the principle, that it is sanctified, that it cannot be sanctified. Seeing the only front of a historical figure and missing the other side of it is not the right way to describe it. Ataturk is both a person who is blocked by walls around him and a person who has been wrongly presented by being the instrument of ideological struggles. Ataturk is a self-obsessed, in love with his people, a man of faith, a Muslim, brave, determined statesman who reads well the inclinations of his time. They had superior qualities, but they had weaknesses; they had faults; they had courage and courage; but they had fears; they had things to applaud, things to imitate, but they had things to criticize; they had fists, but they had hearts. Such an Ataturk is subject to taboo offspring a thousand times more than an Ataturk, separated from society. It must not be forgotten that secularism belongs to only God and only God. Turkish youth, like all historical values, has much to learn from him and his life. For a historical figure to be valuable to a nation, it doesn't necessarily have to believe as we do, it's enough that it serves the nation as we do. That's what the Ataturk Research Center is responsible for. To understand him correctly, to prove that telling him the truth and loving him are not dependent on any ideological tendency, in other words, to present Ataturk as the keeper of his trust, not as the statue keeper. So it's an expression and presentation from taboo to trust guard. Congressmans, there are no taboos in democracies, there are free and equal citizens. Democracy is the kind of regime that everyone can say unless they want to get involved in violence and not encourage violence. Part of that is criticism. Democratic society is a criticism society, a society where every thought can find its own way of life. In societies like this, there are no taboos, no ideas. Based on this frame, the Ataturk Research Center has important tasks. Westerners take reality out of mythology, Easterners turn truth into mythology. The Ataturk Research Centre should work as an institution that will investigate Ataturk as a person, as a commander and as a politician. The Ataturk Research Centre conducted 31 national and 6 international scientific events in 2012. In 2013, he planned an intensive scientific activity programme within the 90th year of our republic. A total of 25 books were published in 2012, and 30 books were planned for 2013. In 2012, nine students were granted a scholarship of 126,000 euros, including six degrees and three Ph.D.s. I wish the Ataturk Research Center budget and the 2012 budget in general would be a blessing, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0291par0337	Thank you, Mr. Özdağ. Now, Mr. Osman Çakır, the Düzce MP. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0292par0341	Mr. President, I have made a promise on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group regarding the budget and activities of the Ataturk Cultural Centre. First of all, I salute the esteemed members. The centre, founded in 1983 as part of Article 1334, is a research institution that continues the activities of research, publication, promotion, promotion, promotion, support and reward activities on Turkish culture, bringing together competent scientists from different disciplines related to the field of duty. The centre has organised conventions, symposiums, panels, workshops and conferences at national and international levels today; it has issued continuous and continuous publications, has given research scholarships and awards to promote cultural research and has served with the research, introduction and spread of our culture through its projects, as well as with private collections of broadcasters, science and art people, and the library with over 70,000 books and continuous publications. The centre published 17 works on different areas of Turkish culture in 2012, and the research journal published the 61st, 62st and 63st editions of the carpet weaving and processing arts magazine of Erdem. In 2012, our centre granted a scholarship to grad students and PhDs. With these scholarships, Turkey's social structure, cultural heritage research, religion and thought research, Balkan research, Central Asia research, Middle Eastern research, Caucasian research and Van and its environment continue to work. On the basis of the 20th year of the independence of the Turkish republics, the project titled "Relaunched Borders and Identities" was prepared. Following the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the project focused on political and social changes in Tajikistan, Georgia, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, the process of building states and nations in these countries, particularly Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan. The centre also runs comprehensive international projects within the institution, such as the Republic-era Turkish Culture Project, the Scientific City Monograph Project. The first work of the project, called Turkish Culture of the Republic, was completed in 2010, and will be completed in 1938-1960 and 1960-1980. The Scientific City Monographies Project is aimed at scientific research into the impact of the location with culture. The project, which began with Isparta (Isparta) in 2009, will continue in 2013. In 2012, the Symposium of Young Sights was organised on the grounds of the 750/year anniversary of the death of Ahi Evran. In 2012, cooperation with universities was held in 12 scientific gatherings, including three of them nationally and nine internationally. As an example of these meetings, between 23 November and 24 November, the Grand Composer Itri International Symposium was held in Şanlıurfa, from 7 December to 8 December 2012 in Şanlıurfa, in the 300th Year of the death of the poet Nabi Symposium. The Ataturk Cultural Centre and Hodja Ahmet Yesevi International University of Turk-Kazak co-operation and the International Symposium on Development of Turkish Culture (Turkish Culture 2) are organised. Dear lawmakers, one of the studies will be eight of the international Turkish cultural conventions held by the Ataturk Cultural Centre every four years. The aim of the convention on cultural heritage is to present threats and opportunities that await cultural and natural heritage, the economic and industrial dimension of culture, the preservation of cultural and natural heritage, and to shed light on the present and the future, with a long-standing approach to Turkish culture from the west to the east, in which culture is becoming important as political and economic power among countries. Hopefully, these works will continue in Eskişehir, which has been declared a concrete cultural heritage capital by the Turkish Capital of Culture, 2013, which will be held in Eskişehir next year. In the coming process of 2013, I hope that the financial budget will be a blessing, and I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0293par0350	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. The next speaker on behalf of the AK PARTI Group is Mr. Mehmet Naci Bostancı, Amassian MP. Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0294par0354	Mr. President, dear deputy friends, I speak for the Turkish Language Foundation at the age of eighty. He's done some very important work in these 80 years. From now on, it will continue its activities in its field. For example, last year, 18 nationals held international meetings, planning 33 for next year. They support a lot of books, support researchers. And they're going to do all this work with $12.8 million; they've got a staff in 56; they're going to do it with work. Of course, a country's language does not grow, not only by one institution. The languages of countries are concerned with the wealth and development of countries. For example, we're talking German philosophy, Marx wrote German. Behind German philosophy is the great development of Germany's theatre in the 19th century. We'll talk about British economics policy. There, again, has been a living, political, commercial, economic life in England since the 15th and 16th century. It's the same for French literature. Whatever name comes to mind, from Lawrence Durrell to English Robert Musil, or Albert Camus, all of these are rich, powerful countries. That linguistic narrative repertoire, which we call Western civilization, is a significant product of the halls, the halls, the cultural halls... So the language issue is actually very closely related to the development of countries, and it is necessary to view Turkey's development, especially in the last decade, not only as economic, statistics-based information, but as an investment in Turkish language. Now, since we have a claim to language, if we have to put it out there with art, literature, there's got to be a rich society behind it. If you're not rich, you have no argument about language. Writers grow in Turkey, thank God. It's everybody's job. In every field, absolutely, you have to create a refined, aesthetic language that contributes to that language. Language matters. The language has a long history, a date that accompanys our earthly adventure. Language is actually the world's avatar and the greatest invention of man. You're doing the world's dup by language, you're building a similar one. So when Wittgenstein finishes his famous book, the last sentence should be silenced about the unspoken one. Another saying is that talking about the tongue is like holding the tongs with the tongs. German philosopher Heidegger is the home of the entity. Everyone knows the word, or Benjamin of Frankfurt School, is not a means of communication, but an entity itself. On the tongue, language can actually drive you crazy, because we can talk about everything with language ability, we can talk about everything. That's why Shakespeare says words, words, words. Dear friends, I'd like to give you an example: The word "personson" in English comes from Latin (personare). The language has a history, and the words have a history. (Personare) means depth per man. Personality is about depth. You're not going to make the depth of your insides like a drum, you're going to fill the depth of your insides with words that are the avatar of the world. If you have an inner depth like a drum's cavity, it sounds like a strong drum, a drum's ear. That's why those deep inside tell their meanings so loudly. You know, in Turkish, shouting comes from the same root. There's no doubt that those who shout here should pay attention. You don't build civilizations by shouting, but wars do. Great civilizations are built with grace, words. To build great civilizations, we need a rich, powerful Turkey, where we understand each other, produce each other.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0295par0359	The Prime Minister's a screamer, too. How do we do that?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0296par0360	In your group talks...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0294par0361	Hopefully, we'll build this Turkey together. Thank you so much, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0297par0364	Thank you, Mr. Botanci. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, the final speaker is Siirt MP Osman Ören. Here you go, Mr. Kören.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0298par0368	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the Turkish Historical Foundation budget. On this occasion, on behalf of my group and myself, I give you all my compliments. Members of parliament, the Turkish Historical Institution, founded on 28 April 1930 under the directives of Ataturk, aims to study Turkish history and civilization in scientific ways, to try to carry out its activities on a national and international level in this direction. To ensure scientific research on Turkey's history and universal competence, to promote perfection in science and education based on scientific history research, to improve history and culture in society, to bring it to an active position on international platforms is one of the main tasks of this institution. In 2012, the institution held nine scientific meetings, including five nationals and four internationals. He also contributed to seven of the meetings held by local and foreign institutions with the presence of notifications. 15 research works have been published in 2012 to date regarding the institution's working areas. Ten more research works will be published by the end of the year. It will also be published in the same form of seven pieces of research that have already been published and published by the end of the year. Precious friends, 50 students received scholarships in 2012, including 29 graduates, 18 Ph.D.s, and 3 Ph.D.s, on the part of the Turkish Historical Association. In 2012, 4,260 researchers from the Turkish Historical Society library used 22.569 materials. 39 researchers from the document archive have taken advantage of 15,000 documents, 550 photographs. In 2013, Turkey's social, cultural and economic history projects will be rebooted with the detection of historical Turkish artifacts from abroad, which have been launched by the Council in previous years but have not been concluded. There will also be a portal to communicate online as part of the work of the social sciences information bank project. Organizations will be organised to promote historical places abroad and abroad in order to establish history for upper secondary school, high school, university and grad students. The collection and renovation project will continue with the help of new technologies to conduct the management of materials found in the Turkish Historical Society library. Mr. President, good friends, the construction of the Ottoman State and the establishment of the Republic of Turkey between our Turkish historical institution's activities in 2013 will explain the Armenian issue raised against Turkey in accordance with historical facts, and the preparation of film films and documents that will bring sound to the world's public, the establishment of panoramic and thematic museums that represent the turning points of our history, such as the Çanakkale Victory and the national struggle, and the establishment of panoramic and nationalistic museums that represent the turning points of our history, with a co-existry of governorship in the settlement centers, and the establishment of historical parks, and the establishment of events that are important to be organised for public events of the peace. Again, in 2013, 65 students, including 10 licenses, 20 Masters, 30 Ph.D.s and 5 Ph.D.s, are expected to receive scholarships for post-doctoral research grants for five other students abroad. Dear lawmakers, I would like the Turkish Historical Society to do social, political work on our country's near term, in this sense, at a broader angle. As I do these studies, I also think that the principle is that our party is a sensitive party that underlines the issue of being an orphan. A famous thinker is the history of the victors; the defeated do not have much place in history. However, if the EC PARTY brings a new breath to historianship, and today works to become an orphan, it will be the voice of both the victors and the victors in history, and will show strong will to reveal the true social and political history of our society. He will also view the historical and cultural differences of our society as wealth and will walk together into the future as well as into the future. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit03spe0299par0377	Thank you, Mr. Kören. Congressmans, I'm calling for a 45-minute recess.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0299par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fifth Session of Turkey's 37th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We will continue round 2nd round of the 2013 Central Management Budget Bill and 2011 Central Management Computation Bill. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0300par0005	Mr. President, I'd like word from the teaser.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0299par0006	Now, I told you we'd do 20 minutes of QA.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0300par0007	Mr. President, I'd like your word on the bullying.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0299par0008	I'm sorry, it's not possible this time.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0300par0009	Perhaps this is the first time a woman's congresswoman has been addressed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0299par0010	I announced it, Mr. Nazlıaka, and I said: "The talks are over. I'm going to answer the questions. Our friends are waiting for the answers to their questions, and they're in the system. Mr. Çınar, here you are, sir...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0301par0012	Mr. President, Mr. President, one moment, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0302par0013	Mr. President, this may be the first time the House has ever witnessed such a conversation. I think I have a say in that, I want a promise. Give me a minute, but give me a minute.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0301par0014	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0303par0015	Mr. Hamzacebi, look...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0304par0016	Mr. President, the session has changed, changed.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0303par0017	Excuse me for a second. Before I went in, I said: "The talks are over. I'm moving on to the QA. Please understand.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0305par0019	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0306par0020	Mr. President, now that you've been bullied, you've closed the session in order to avoid any demand for Mr. Bulent Arinc's speech. Look, you give that impression. Now, Mr. Aylin Nazliaka, the speaker of this conversation, wishes to exercise his natural rights. By hiding behind some of the articles of the Civil Code...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0307par0021	We're not hiding, Mr. President. This place is run by the Civil Code.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0306par0022	You can't deny a congressman a right to be a mother, a woman, because of being a congressman.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0308par0023	Hiding to practice the House of Parliament!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0024	Wait a second... Mr. Hamzacebi, look, watch your language. I'm not hiding behind any regulation clauses.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0310par0026	Yeah, you're hiding.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0027	I just said, the talks are over and the talks are over. Is there anything to hide in this?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0310par0028	There's an insult, that's all!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0029	We need them as human beings. I've been sitting here for three hours, taking five. There's nothing else. Please, I mean, not if you understand like this, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0311par0030	They won't be able to make a statement, Mr. President, the session is now in session.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0312par0031	Mr. President, it's definitely about my personality...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0032	All right, I'll give you a minute, Mr. Aylin. But please don't...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0311par0034	Mr. President, there's a Civil Code here!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0035	Guys, I'm asking you. I'll be fine in a minute. Please, ma'am, come in.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0313par0039	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have once again listened to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister's words about myself with regret. She's questioned my motherhood, and she's made a statement that will cause her to be questioned. I've never had to question my motherhood, but I'm afraid, in a highly unsavory manner of speech, it has affected the general style of the House in a negative way. I don't think he's the man of the state for so many years. I resent his explanations. Also, my statement about abortion is an explanation that exists in literature, a definition that exists. I advise him to learn literature himself, but I will never accept his verbal attacks on me. We mustn't change the style of the House. It's a matter of opinion.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0314par0041	We really shouldn't drop it!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0042	Thank you, Mr. Nazliaka. Sir, we're going to question and answer. [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Final Account for Central Management 2011 E) BASIN RELEASE AND INFORMATION GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Language Institution Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkish Historical Association Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Historical Foundation for Central Management Final Account for 2011 Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0315par0076	Mr. President, 1st place is scholarly light.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0077	No, things are changing around here. There's Mr. Chanar in the 1st row, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0315par0078	Number one on the first list is Scholar Light.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0316par0079	Sir, the first line is here.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0080	The list is added to the end, sir. Here's the list I was given.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0315par0081	No, sir, that's because you put it out.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0082	I'm surprised which is which.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0317par0083	Mr. President, I mean, there's been no interference from here. The list was changed with an intervention from there.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0309par0084	That's the list I have.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0317par0085	On the first list, Alim Light is number 1.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0318par0086	I'm in first place, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0317par0087	The list you gave me.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0088	But he's off the list, that's what they say, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0318par0089	No, sir, no.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0317par0090	No, he didn't check out. There was no exit, our lights went out with a procedure. Here we go again...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0091	Mr. Chancer, the information I've been given is that when one friend comes out, another one goes in and the list changes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0320par0092	Mr. President, there's a list here. Here's the first list.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0093	Technically, they say he's out or he's not here. That's the list I was given, it doesn't matter to me.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0321par0094	Mr. President, my microphone went out for a while, so if my turn is in the 7th row, if it's changed, then there's something going on with the system. Otherwise, I didn't check out. It turns out the scholar Light didn't come out either.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0095	Now, sir, look, I'll read the list.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0321par0096	Yeah.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0097	Mr. Çınar, Mr. Iştır - if he has entered again, he is in the first place right - Mr. Yilmaz, Mr. Türkoğlu, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Şandir, Mr. Öğüt, Mr. Erdoğan, there have been 10 people.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0322par0098	I was in the 10th place, where you put me in the 11th place.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0099	Without Mr. Light, it's the 10th row. Then if we're going to start with Light, Mr. Light, please.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0323par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I have questions I won't ask. I'd like to express to you that I don't really consider you the kind of person who sees yourself in a giant mirror and looks down on lawmakers and insults them. You've compromised these budget negotiations. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0319par0103	Mr. Chanar...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0324par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, is there a technical staff available to produce a series, film, or documentary? Why are programs purchased by thousands of liras if available? Do you have any work to determine the positive or negative effects of television series published in your time on TRT? If so, what's the result? What's the number of goods returned to foreign foundations by now? How many poor families who studied the child in elementary school were helped by foundations?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0325par0109	Thank you. Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0326par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. And I'll tell the Minister... when you just gave a 50-minute speech on the floor of the House -- he's already been Speaker of the House, and now as Deputy Prime Minister -- do you find your tone correct in this speech? Not now, but I think it would be healthier if you answered after watching. My second question: Why was it needed to change the Rating Tracking Met? Is this due to a need, or did it happen at the request of the Prime Minister? The purpose of the Turkish Language Foundation is to reveal the true beauty and wealth of Turkish language, to raise it to the height of its value among the earth's languages, but we all know that in the environment where foreign words surround streets, streets and shops, where foreign rule is in the streets, you're talking about preparing a Kurdish language, so you think you've brought Turkish to the right place in Turkey? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0327par0116	Thank you, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Turkoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0328par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we used to think of you as a serious, experienced statesman, but your recent conversations were rather informal. I guess it's time to quit politics and leave your place to the young. As a cultural centre of the Gaziantep Board of Protection, a building passed through the project was restored as a havvra. The Director of Gaziantep Foundations planned to fly 1,000 Jews from Istanbul to Gaziantep because there were not one Jews in Gaziantep, but the Jews gave up on the fact that the project was heard in Gaziantep. What do you think about that? On the other hand, as orphaned in your reign, Turkish and Turkish, new languages are intended to be brought in next to Turkish. Where is the Joint Turkish alphabet project to unite the Turkish world? Is this project stuck? Will you have any contribution, or will he face a negative pattern, such as Turkishness? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0329par0123	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0330par0125	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I strongly condemn your attitude towards our friends' critical views during budget negotiations. It suits the state man, where he responds to criticism from our friends instead of hitting our friends below the waist in the context of democratic maturity. But you chose to create polemics. This is not in line with the state's manship or the dignity of this Parliament.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0329par0128	Mr. Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0331par0129	Mr. President, I'm very upset about what happened. Now I've lost my motivation to ask questions. As a congressman, my conscience has been seriously injured. I've given up asking questions, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0329par0131	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0332par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've been running Turkey for ten years. Since we were children, we've learned the legend of Ergenekon as the resurrection of the Turkish nation, it's been studied, it's been studied, it's been studied like that since your time in power. You've made it clear that the legend you didn't reveal and that you accused our group of intelligence is wrong, that it's not true, and you need to complete it. What I'm trying to find out is, do you find it uncomfortable that Ergenekon's saga of the resurrection of the Turkish nation? Why did you take this approach? That's what I want to know. Second: Your sensitivity to minority foundations in Turkey is your appreciation, but as a government that rules Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will you show the same sensitivity to the foundations of the Ottomans?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0333par0137	Thank you, Mr. Chancer. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0334par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bulent Arinc's words and manner, I withdraw the right to ask him to protest because his position under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey does not suit his position.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0333par0142	Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0335par0143	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0336par0144	Mr. President, Congress needs to be serious. What kind of question is that?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0333par0146	Please... please, friends... please...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0336par0147	What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0333par0148	Guys, please... Yes, Mr. Öğüt...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0336par0150	You don't ask questions, you don't ask questions.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0337par0152	Are we going to take the questions from you, Ahmet Bey?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0333par0153	Guys, please... Mr. Öpün...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0338par0155	Can we go back to the beginning, Mr. President?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0333par0156	Please, sir. Reboot.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0338par0158	Turkey is far behind both the United States and Europe in terms of oral and dental health. Based on the fact that no one of the 3 people in society ever brushes their teeth once a day, the need for this consciousness to be increased is incontrovertible. But every foreign film and show we see has at least one scene about teeth. The purpose of this is to give visual reference to the importance of oral and dental health to individuals and to instill that consciousness. Given the fact that dental diseases involving all body health are preventable diseases, it will be seen how important it is to implement similar practices in our country. Did the government have an initiative or a plan for this request from the Dentist Corps? Is it possible to bring mandatory applications, such as abroad, in order to establish oral and dental awareness in Turkey, by contacting relevant institutions, particularly RTÜK and TRT? We also have observations that the General Directorate of the Foundation and its branches, which are tasked with protecting the works and foundations of our history and our profession, drive luxury cars. Is that true? That's...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0339par0163	Thank you, Mr. Öpül. Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0340par0165	Mr. President, I don't want to ask any more questions in an environment where the Deputy Prime Minister can't stand any more questions, but I'm going to ask them a question sent to me from Van Ercish. The Erciş Ataturk Elementary School was built in 1924 and has kept its name until now. Why has this school been changed to Tenzile Elementary School, even though it was not damaged in the earthquake? Our citizen of Ercish asks. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0341par0168	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Mr. Iron...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0342par0170	Thank you. And as a physician, I would like to express my regrets. As a question, on the first day of the budget, Mustafa Elitaş MP said that no mosques were left without imams in Turkey. I wish the same MP had mentioned schools that couldn't be opened and locked because he didn't have a teacher. You can attend the meeting anywhere, but how will it improve the situation of students who can't go to school, not the shame of AKP power? In the village of Bucak, a mosque has not been imamed for eight years, so it does not speak the truth, Elitaş and about 120,000 staffs are empty, and 60,000 teachers are waiting for the appointment. When do they get...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0343par0175	Thank you, Mr. Iron. Mr. Proposal...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0344par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not taking advantage of you, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0343par0180	Mr. Acar.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0345par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Bulent Arinc, Deputy Prime Minister, as you asked me, I've been a lawyer for forty years, and I've been a politician in Antalya for thirty-nine years. There is not a place where I have not set foot, nor have spoken, from dawn to Serik, from Gazipaşa, to Caledran, to Teğur. Every meter has a term for it. I have served four years as city council member, two years as mayor, four as mayor of Antalya province, two as mayor of Antalya Bar, and 15 years as mayor of the municipal election committee in local and general elections, and I'm here; don't talk about your stomach! You've made the country fed up with your demeanour policy. You've turned the army, the judiciary, and we won't let you turn the CHP!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0346par0185	Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0347par0187	That's patience!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0188	Mr. President, thank you very much. Most of my friends didn't actually ask questions, they just criticised me for my speech and style. And now they're leaving the General Assembly hall, leaving two of our friends. I like criticisms about this, so if I'm out of style, out of line, out of character, out of character, out of character, friends can say anything, but I've been following the General Assembly work for years, especially in this period. Let them look at themselves, check their language, think about what they said, why they said it, and then criticize me. Based on these reviews, I'm saying that tonight I did a very good and very good job. What suits me is that in my 20 years of parliamentary life, it's the minutes of the General Assembly. There's nothing in these reports to make me blush. And most of the mistakes I've made, I've either accepted them or I've apologized. We don't have any questions to ask before some truth gets out. We don't ask questions. There's no need to say them. If I'm wrong, you tell me I'm wrong. I'm a man of tradition, a man of honor and tradition, a man who believes in the sanctity of family life. I've judged so much that a married woman with a family would say, "Don't interfere with my sexual organs."
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0349par0192	Don't say it again, please!
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0350par0193	It's a shame, it's a shame, Mr. Arinc, it's not working.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0194	I didn't repeat it, I didn't repeat it. If I had said that word, then I would have repeated it, but you put him on the stand over and over again, and you gave him a chance to criticize me, to say that I was wrong. An experienced group of vice presidents wouldn't do that. We trust you all the time, we always appreciate you. You have a different place than your other friends.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0351par0195	What do you mean, you have a different place than your other friends?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0196	Of course, there will be a political obligation to drive the Younger here and not respond to what they say. I know what I'm saying, I know how I say it, no doubt.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0352par0197	Is it coming from here? Is it coming from here when you say it wrong?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0198	My dear friends, you have never criticised me for my manner until today. The critics were others, and what they are, and what they are, they become. I said, "Take into account what the speakers have said in a scientific way, and look into them." There may be something different from our acceptances so far, but that's a free seat, a bench where we can express our opinion in order not only to insult but also not to be responsible for the words we say, not to be responsible for the votes we vote. There's no need to be angry about it. Why did the school name change? I don't know. In the mosques, there is no imam, how are the schools? You will ask that when the budget of our Minister of National Education comes. Mr. Çınar, I've had the gene for the TRT. Those in question cannot be a question, according to the clause of the Civil Code. Is your material right? The purpose of the Turkish Language Foundation is: to improve Turkish language. You're writing a Kurdish language. You're saying it. Yes, I am proud of it because so far the Turkish Language Foundation has not prepared the English-Turkish Dictionary, the German-Turkish Dictionary, the French-Turkish Dictionary, the Turkish Armenian Dictionary, the Georgian-Turkish Dictionary, the Hakas-Turkish Dictionary, the Tuvaca Dictionary, the Italian Dictionary, the Çağatay Dictionary, the Mongolian-Turkish Dictionary, the Serbian-Turkish Dictionary, and the Turkish-Turish Dictionary. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] For God's sake, we're going to make a dictionary in Kurdish, we're going to do it in Kurdish. Is there anything wrong, is there a sin, is there a crime?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0353par0206	I said, "Mr. Vice Prime Minister, do you find it right?" You're gonna tell me if you think it's true or not. Answer our question.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0207	The Turkish Language Foundation -- I remind you of a mission he has not done so far -- will perform this task, and the Turkish Language Foundation will draft a Turkish-Kurdish dictionary. And by doing that, we'll be doing our duty.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0353par0209	Mr. Vice Prime Minister, read our question correctly. I didn't say it was rude, I didn't say it was wrong. Did I say right or wrong?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0210	The dictionary is being prepared in Urdu-Turkish, Hindi-Turkish, Romanian-Turkish.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0353par0211	I asked him, "Is it true?" I asked him a word.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0212	Sir, stop yelling. Stop yelling.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0353par0213	Do you think that's true?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0354par0214	Mr. Yilmaz, please listen.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0348par0215	I'm polemic. Polemics is in politics, and you will answer my words. Mr. Aslanoglu has a bad conscience. You've been insensitive to words that have hurt your conscience, did you think of them today? You've been running Turkey for ten years. For many years, we have read the legend of Ergenekon, and why do you feel uncomfortable about it? The truth of something is, when was it a crime to say, "Let's do some research on it?" Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0355par0220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0356par0221	Mr. President, time is not over, I have a question.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0355par0222	Go ahead.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0356par0223	Thank you. Mr. Minister, at a time when you were in Manisa, you were arrested and detained on charges of assassination in Ankara. No indictment has been filed or ruled not to be followed until now. What is the reason for this? Or was that claim not true? That's my first question. Second: Reports of 5-6 local television in Gaziantep have been reported having joint broadcasts under the name "Partner platform" (also known as Gaziantep). Is this practice in accordance with the principles of publication? If not, what measures do you intend to take? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0357par0227	Thank you, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0358par0228	Mr. President, I have a question, too, and I'd like to ask you a question.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0359par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0357par0230	Minister, if you'll excuse me, let's have one more question.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0360par0231	We've got three minutes.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0357par0232	Here you go, Mr. Metiner.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0361par0233	Thank you. There's a question asked to our Deputy Prime Minister, about his discomfort with the preparation of the Kurdish dictionary... Now, you will accept both the Kurds living in this country as Turks, and you will be uncomfortable with the draft of the Kurdish dictionary. I wonder how those who have heard of this disorder express these contradictions. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, perhaps they'd like to answer on their behalf. Let them decide, are the Kurds in this country Turkish? If he is Turkish, why do they find it uncomfortable to prepare a dictionary in their language?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0357par0235	Mr. Halaçoglu...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0362par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, we asked the scientist about Ergenekon, Mr. Arinc, about whether he was Mongolian or not, and he didn't answer, but I'll tell you who he is: Mr. Türköne. This area is not the area of Turkane. So I'm very, very disappointed in the fact that such a claim is made on the stand, even though there is no historical truth to it, is indeed, in terms of our history and our national values, and it's not true. So, in this field, in this field, he has done a lot of research, he has studied this epic, he has written the history of Skystarch, and although many books have been written about it in the Historical Society, such an explanation is indeed unfortunate for us. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0363par0239	Thank you. Minister, would you like to answer?
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0364par0241	Some friends had given up the right to ask questions, but a friend of ours who saw that you had a deadline asked you a question. The question of Mr. Metiner is not for me to answer. But at this time of night, I thought of a joke. If you'll excuse me, perhaps the answer will be accepted at its point, I'd like to say that there's a phrase like the bull that's seen it for years. I mean, they put a red sheet on him, and the bull gets very angry, and there's a lot of stuff going on there, and everybody's happy to see it. Why did they investigate why bulls were so angry with red and al-colored? In the end, the rumor is, they got the bull talking. Why are you so angry with this veil? The bull said, "I'm not angry, the bulls don't get mad at the cover. Why do you attack so much?" In fact, he said, "The cows are very angry." When they see Al's color, the cows get more angry. (E, they're cows, you're bulls, why are you angry?) Because they make me look like a cow. Now, there may be so many acceptances in our lives that one day a person would say they were wrong, and they would really be inadmissible. Let's look into it. Now there's Uncle Google, there's the Internet, there's the history. Let's look into it, it's very simple, very simple. Don't let anyone get angry about this. Governor, we remember not from your governorship, but rather from your speech about the Leader. Please, don't ask me anything to remind you of yourself during our congressional position. Dear President, thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0365par0248	Thank you. Members of lawmakers, I will now make you read separately and vote on the parting of budgets in the second round, respectively.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0366par0250	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0365par0251	Here you go, Mr. Serindağ.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0366par0252	Mr. President, now, I asked two very clear questions. No, it wasn't a closed question, either of which were very clear questions. The Deputy Prime Minister has said other things instead of answering these questions. I, Mr. Commander Sav. Secretary General of the Republican People's Party at the time.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0367par0253	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0365par0254	Wait a second...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0366par0255	I had a conversation and I'm proud of it. It's in the papers, the content of that conversation. Look, two property inspectors have been assigned, they haven't found any criminal elements. Then they assigned two different properties inspectors, and they didn't find any criminal elements again. They sent inspectors to two properties, they did ten days of research there, they didn't find a criminal element, and now the Deputy Prime Minister is bringing it up. I blame it, and I complain to my people. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0368par0258	He's on the books, sir. I submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight shall be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who refuse... are accepted.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0369par0260	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0368par0261	I'm having them read the chapters...
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0369par0262	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0370par0263	The vote is over.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0371par0264	There's no bread for you, there's too many.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0372par0265	I voted for him. After the episodes... 42.01) RADYO AND TELEVIZION BUILDING 1) Radio and Television Board Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 125,248,000
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0373par0274	We want roll call.
tbmm-2012-12-11sit04spe0372par0275	There's a request for a roll call before the vote. Mr. Hamzacebi, Mr. Dibek, Mr. Koren, Mr. Serindağ, Mr. Aslanoğlu, Mr. Köse, Mr. Topal, Mr. Kesimoğlu, Mr. Dinçer, Mr. Special, Mr. Akar, Mr. Özbolat, Mr. Aksinger, Mr. Bulut, Mr. Özkan, Mr. Ekshi, Mr. Develi, Mr. Özgüşmiş, Mr. Aykük, Mr. Since there's a roll call before the vote, I'll give you two minutes to roll call. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. [AK PARTY APPLAUSE, CHP APPLAUSE] [[Continue]] 1) Radio and Television Supreme Council Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Final Account for Central Management 2011 E) BASIN RELEASE AND INFORMATION GENIAL RESPONSIBILITY [[Continue]] 1) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2013 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2013 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2011 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Research Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2013 Central Management Budget 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2011 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Language Institution Final Account for Central Management in 2011 1) Turkish Historical Association Central Management Budget for 2013 2) Turkey's Historical Foundation for Central Management Final Account for 2011 All those in favor of the department... those who do not... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 1,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 35.352,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 162,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Acquisitions 68,600,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 93,400,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 162,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted in 2013 as part of the central management budget. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Radio and Television Oversight Board take part in the central management account in 2011: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Radio and Television Supreme Board Final Account for Central Management 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 115,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 100,712,038,67 Canceled Fund 14.287.961.33 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): Budget revenue estimate 115,000,000.00 Net Collection 107,525,158,35 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Radio and Television Oversight was adopted as part of the central management account in 2011. I submit to your votes that the Editor-in-Chief of Press-Journal Information shall take part in the central management budget of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 7:77) BASIN-YAYING AND INFORMATION GENIAL PRODUCTION 1) Media-Journal Information and General Directorate Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 12.227,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 02 Defense Services 19,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 550,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 141,331,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 154.117.500 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of 2013 was adopted by the Editor-in-Chief of Press and Information. I'd like to submit to your votes that the press release and information directorate will be transferred to the final accounts of 2011: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) Press-Journal and Information General Directorate 2011 Central Management Final Account I'm reading the general sum of the ruler A: [[TL]] Total allowance 159.390.800.00 Budget Expenses 156,685,332,69 Canceled Fund 2,705,467,31 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Editor-in-Chief of the Press-Journal Information Department of the Central Administration of 2011 has been adopted into the section of its final account. I submit to your votes that the Foundation General Directorate will be transferred to the central budget of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.18) THE GOVERNMENT OF VICTIMS 1) General Directorate of Foundations Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 23.569.400 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 8.076,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 07 Health Services 505,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 331,407,500 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 10 Social Security and Social Services 56,786.100 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 420.344,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Attempted and Property Profits 397,823,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes With Donations and Aids 1,100,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 43,660.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 06 Capital Savings 58,450,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 501.023,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The General Directorate of Foundations was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of 2011 shall be transferred to the chapters of the Foundation General Directorate: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) General Directorate of the Foundations Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 636,836,299,94 Budget Expenses 501,717,702,88 Canceled Fund 134,352,362,71 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 766,234,35 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget Profits estimated 509,000,000.00 Net Collection 485.012.195,91 Ret and Returns 4,088,768,10 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The General Directorate of the Foundations was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Institute for Culture, Language and History shall take part in the central management budget of 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.02) THE ATATURK CLUB, LANGUAGE AND ARTIAL PRODUCTION 1) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Budget 2013 [[TL]] 01 General Public Service 8,086,300 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 03 Public Order and Security Services 180,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 8.266.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 18,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 8,223,300 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 25,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 8.266.300 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, I submit to your votes that the final account of central management in 2011 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't. 2) Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute Central Management Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total Payment 7.918,000.00 Budget Expenses 6,239,686,48 Canceled Fund 1.678.313.52 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 7.33,000.00 Net Collection 6.780.302.60 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Institute of Culture, Language and History was adopted as part of the final account of central management in 2011. Ataturk Research Center, I submit to your votes that the central management budget of 2013 will be moved to its sections: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.03) ATATURK RESEARCH CENTER 1) Ataturk Research Centre 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 2.335,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2.335,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 193,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Earnings 2.142,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 2.335,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. Ataturk Research Center, I would like to submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Research Center 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 3.177,000.00 Budget Expenses 2.847.666.64 Canceled Grant 329,333,36 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 2.11,000.00 Net Collection 2,547,732.07 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Research Centre was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Ataturk Cultural Center will take part in the central budget in 2013: those who don't accept... are accepted. 40.04) ATATURK CLUB CENTER 1) Ataturk Cultural Center 2013 Central Management Budget [[TL]] 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 3,873,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 3,873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 161,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Influences With Donations and Aids 3,712,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 3,873,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted as part of the central management budget in 2013. Ataturk Cultural Center, I submit to your votes that the central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Ataturk Cultural Center 2011 Central Management Final Account (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 4.038,228,38 Budget Expenses 2.561,764,42 Canceled Fund 1,476,463,96 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 2.953,000.00 Net Collection 2.862.288.33 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. The Ataturk Cultural Centre was adopted in 2011 as part of its final account of central management. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.05) ENGLISH LANGUAGE 1) Turkish Language Institution Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 240,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 12.553,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 12.793,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 93,709,200 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Incomes 101.000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 46.122,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 139.932.200 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Parts of the Turkish Language Institution's central management budget were adopted in 2013. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Language Foundation's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Language Institution Final Account for Central Management in 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 16.753,000.00 Budget Expenses 10,348,065,43 Cancelled Fund 6,404,934,57 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 105,000,000.00 Net Collection 119.441.91,21 Ret and returns 153,845,89 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Language Foundation's final account of central management in 2011 have been adopted. I would like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Foundation will be transferred to the central management budget in 2013: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.06) Turkish Tariq Kurd 1) Turkish Historical Association Central Management Budget for 2013 [[TL]] 03 Public Order and Security Services 280,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 08 Rest, Culture and Religion Services 6.652,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 6,932,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. [[TL]] 03 Equipment and Property Profits 84,461.000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 04 Special Earnings 32,000 With Donations and Aids All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. 05 Other Incomes 40.507,000 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. TOPLAM 125,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained Parts of the Turkish historical institution's central management budget were adopted in 2013. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Turkish Historical Society's central management account of 2011 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Historical Foundation for Central Management Final Account for 2011 (A) I'm reading the general sum of the ruler: [[TL]] Total allowance 9.270.424.20 Budget Expenses 8.422.760,13 Cancelled Fund 847.664.07 (A) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. I'm going to read the final account (B): [[TL]] Budget revenue estimate 95,000,000.00 Net Collection 123,146,123,78 (B) those who accept the ruler... those who do not... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish historical institution's final account of central management were adopted in 2011. Thus, the Higher Council of Radio and Television, the General Directorate of Press-Journal and Information, the General Directorate of Foundations, Ataturk Culture, Language and History Institute, Ataturk Research Centre, Ataturk Culture Centre, Turkish Language Foundation and Turkish Historical Association's central management budgets for 2013 were approved with final accounts of central management. I wish him well. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 12th 2012) to discuss the budget and precise accounts of the institutions, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
