tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 46th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we begin, I offer my condolences to the families of 35 of our citizens who lost their lives in Şırnak Uludere, and to our nation's great Assembly. I also offer my condolences to the families of four workers who died in an accident yesterday. I wish the New Year would bring blessings to our great nation, a year of health, peace, success. I pay my respects to all our congressman friends. Members of parliament, on behalf of the government, Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay has demanded a statement in accordance with Article 59 of the Civil Code concerning the death of 35 of our citizens in Şırnak Uludere. I'll grant this request before it's on the agenda. After the Minister's statement, I will make a promise to political party groups at their request and to one of the non-group lawmakers. The deadlines are 20 minutes for the government, ten minutes for political party groups, and five minutes for a member of parliament without a group. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0002par0015	Mr. President, honored members of our High Council, first I salute you all. And I'm celebrating your new year because it's the first session of the new year. May God grant us all a healthy, peaceful year and a good and productive year of work for our coven. I stand before you in the name of our government for the events of my hand which took place in Uludere last week. As you know, we consider it important to inform our Parliament of extraordinary developments. This is my third intel this year. One was on Tuesday, two days after the earthquake, the other on the terror incident, and this time we met at the Council of Ministers yesterday to inform the Council of Ministers at the first Assembly session after the incident. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, as it is known, on Wednesday (December 28th), citizens of our three villages from the Uludere district were bombed in the Iraq border, suspected of terrorist groups and killed 35 citizens. Later, because of the smuggling activity of these citizens, it was understood that they were in the north of Iraq, beyond our borders. I ask God's mercy to all our citizens who have lost their lives in this overwhelming event that has left our entire country sad, and once again, I offer my condolences to their grieving families. The sadness of each citizen is the sadness of all of us, the sadness of all of Turkey. Our government followed the developments shortly after the incident was discovered. Mr. Prime Minister has received information from our Chief of Staff, Minister of Interior, Governor of Şırnak from the first hours. Following the incident, information collected at that stage was released to the public by our Governor of Şırnak and the Governorate Crisis Centre. It has been stated that all aspects of the incident have been investigated, that the necessary forensic and administrative investigation has been initiated. At this point, I'd like to stress in particular the sensitivity of our state and government to public opinion and the full implementation of the law. As noted in the statement, immediately following the incident, the legal and administrative investigation was under way as part of being a state of law. Once again, I'd like to point out that in accordance with the principles of the legal state, all questions regarding the case will be made clear. Forensic and administrative investigations are also under way. As a matter of fact, I'd like to point out here that in the course of counterterrorism, Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been given a great deal of attention to being in the law. As you know, a serious cross-border operation has been launched since August 17th, which began this summer's summer, after the terrorist events began in July, and these operations continue today. In this process, no civilian citizen has ever been harmed, and this has been given maximum sensitivity. We, as a government, and as our security agencies were conducting the anti-terrorism process, were parallel to the process of protecting our citizens, protecting our citizens, being in law, and democratizing. I'd also like to give you the technical information on these operations, of course, that our esteemed deputies are continuing cross-border air operations as of August 17th. Targets are hit by two types of detection. First, terrorist camps, housing and other facilities that have already been identified with intelligence and coordinates have been shot after a process of specific targets, evaluations and analysis. Many camps, facilities, etc. in northern Iraq are shot like this. The second is that the transit zones, especially used by terrorists in the border area, are regularly controlled by drones, while operations detected during this period are being processed after necessary evaluations. As a matter of fact, during the same day, a detailed statement made by the Chief of Staff regarding the incident was included in a detailed explanation of the reasons and misunderstandings of the action at that point and the lack of evaluations. The assessments in this statement continue today. Here, we see that the Turkish Armed Forces are really following a very transparent stance, as well as the Chief of Staff, and they're telling the truth of what's going on. This is important for our state and for Turkey, dear friends; I especially want to present this point to the Grand Assembly. I'd like to make it a little bit more clear to you as to what I've been getting from the General Staff's statements: the drone is also one of the intelligence sources. The images detected by the drone are being monitored immediately from the authorized centers, and the images taken are being evaluated by relevant units, analysis of the target's target, and after a rapid coordination, target location and quality are being placed under fire by appropriate means or operations by units. On the night of December 28, 2011, following the arrival of drone footage of a group moving towards our border in Iraq, the air force planes were fired two times -- four rounds of radiation -- and destruction bullets were thrown into a possible transit route over the border line, after any warning came and the group continued its deployment in the same order. The following factors in the group's assessment of him as a terrorist have been a factor: A) The Sinat-Haftanin region is the site of a base that has been controlled by the separatist terrorist organization for years, providing logistical contact with Zaho and Dohuk, allowing terrorist transfers to mountain Cudi, Beytüşşebap and Bestler Dereler regions in the Şırnak region to attack outposts and base zones. Also, it's very difficult for people who have no contact with a separatist terrorist organization who have been completely devoid of civil society and have been abandoned to members of the separatist terrorist organization -- there is no village, there is no civilian settlement -- to enter the area of Sinat-Haftanin without permission. B) In advance of the incident, a group of separatist terrorist groups in the region of the week where terrorists have been researching deployment troops in the region of Uldere Centralasu and Gülyazı region, expected to be transferred to Turkey in the central area of the Mujavir, strengthens the assessment that intelligence information that groups sent from the Kandil and Zap regions of the week may be gathering in the region may be planning an action in the region of Gülyap and Centralsu. An increase in the number of radio communications of terrorists in the area. In the area where the incident took place, so far, there's been no sighting of the movement of such crowded trafficker groups. In the past period, the separatist terrorist group was able to conduct its attacks on the country by gathering large groups from the north of Iraq, including cargo animals, which would have a major impact on the public population, on October 21, 2007; on October 3, 2008; on Gediktepe, June 19, 2010; on July 20, 2010. In light of these issues, it has been decided to launch artillery fire first, if no results are made, as the painful experiences of the past in Dağlıca, Actütun, Hantepe, and Çukurca take into account the consequences of a delay attack on our troops. As it has been seen in recent public images and pictures, it is a great mistake to think that the Turkish Armed Forces, who have a sense of a struggle to convince civilians to take the lives of civilians who are willing to surrender even armed terrorists, give the cold terrorist their parking space, use the weapons and equipment that we have, to use the weapons and equipment that we have, to bring them down quickly, to the right, to the right. In the event, it is unfortunate that civilian traffickers should use a territory that should not have been entered illegally and thus have lost their lives, and our armed forces have already expressed their condolences. Dear lawmakers, the important point is that our armed forces carefully monitor the pre-op detection, confirmation and assessment, as well as the combat stages. Here, as our Prime Minister has stated, I again deny incriminating statements that the state deliberately bombed its citizen, in which it was intended, and I invite those making comments and statements to my mind. False analogies, accusations, and false news do not serve to expose the event immediately after the incident. Let us all know, our esteemed MPs, today Turkey is a different Turkey. Today, there's a country that puts the citizen ahead of the human; there's transparency today; there's a Turkey that deals with it today, looking at the tortures it used to do, sir, the unsolveds in its own name. It's so unfair to think that the government would deliberately bomb a citizen or something. It's not fair to us, to Turkey. We're fighting terrorism; look, even the principle of our fight against terrorism, not killing, but living, aiming for survival. We've worked so hard for this. The government changed their old code a lot, embraced it. The government is doing its best to keep a man alive so there's no terror. He's trying to win a citizen of the state. Secondly, of course, all our institutions have shown all sensitivity here, and the necessary administrative, judicial procedures have been initiated, and I'll rephrase that, and we've had a party meeting of MKK on Thursday, where our party spokesman has already announced. Let me put it this way, like there's something wrong with our institutions or something. Mr. President, I would like to say, as the President of the High Council of Anti-Terrorism, our state has never been able to coordinate, co-ordination, co-operation, solidarity and solidarity as much as today; everything is spoken and done, each of our institutions does their part. We're at a point like this today, and I'd like to put it here. Of course, Mr. President, we went to the village on Saturday (December 31st) with our Minister of Agriculture and our Minister of Development, our Deputy Leader of the Group, our district deputies, where, of course, we paid our respects to the families of those who lost their lives in the sad event, and we thank them very much. Anyway, before we left -- it's a sports site, actually, that condolence tent -- there have been incidents, unpleasant events, citizens have already left, they've already come to their own homes, villages, in one big room, Alihan's, this family's elders, all the funeral owners, we've had a long meeting there. Our Prime Minister also spoke to them on the phone there, and we told them that their pain was ours, and we expressed our condolences to everyone. I thank those villagers, that people of the region, their hospitality, their generosity that day... we didn't stay long at their table because the helicopter was going to take off, but in that short time even a large table was prepared for that village room. Look, I'll tell you this: in that reaction to the provocations that led to our overlord, the Uldereli and those peasant citizens had no influence, the people had no influence, the militants brought in from Cizre, Şırnak, and other places did this, and the villagers left after that. And we went to comfort and condolences. Those villagers have been expressing their regrets to us about the incident with the Sub-Committee. Dear friends, this is our country, this is our people. As long as we appreciate them, know how to protect their brotherhood, and cherish them. Here, of course, it's unfortunate before we get there. One of the most valuable platforms is this seat of Congress, where freedom of speech is the most important of its innocence. And I'll tell you to your esteemed MPs that a member of this House today is threatening us from there: don't let the minister come. The people are armed here, don't let them come here. It's a misfortune.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0003par0043	Tell me who he is.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0004par0044	Who said that? Who said that?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0002par0045	The government goes everywhere. We go into every border in this country, and we go to all of them, and I go to those villages, those towns, all of them myself. And we were all there that day. We'll go. And we go where they can't go. No one should ever say such a thing again. And I don't give a damn about anyone here.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0005par0046	Don't you have any intelligence, Minister? I don't know what's gonna happen to my...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0002par0047	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been widely discussed at the Council of Ministers meeting yesterday. Deputy Prime Minister Arinc has made a detailed statement to the public. Our government will do everything in its power for the families of our dead citizens, the ones left behind. Next week, my friends and I will go back to the area together. I will personally monitor the rapid completion of the work in this direction. In this regard, we work on other issues, including compensation under law. Those families, those children are our children. As we heal our wounds, we will conclude the necessary investigation, which is our greatest conscientious responsibility. Don't interfere any more with our families, our families, who are trying to turn funerals into propaganda by forcing organization flags on the coffins of our lost sons. The answer is that the governor at that point, etc., did everything in his power to ensure that they didn't want that mess to happen. We, the government, say that we, in law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We approach with justice and honesty.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0006par0052	Minister, your time is up. Pack it up, please, two more minutes...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0002par0054	Thank you. First, we'll heal our wounds and continue to do whatever it takes to save our nation from the scourge of terror. With ongoing operations, the terrorist organization has suffered severe losses, sustained, continued. Right now, no place for PKK and terrorist elements is safe or secure. In winter and summer, our operations will continue, we won't stop, and we won't, but our democratization steps will continue. We will continue our efforts to have our citizens, to have rights, to expand the law. We only know that security measures and terrorist-related problems cannot be solved, and we know that very well, the state of the Republic of Turkey knows that. So, again, we have social projects, and we continue to work to improve the democratic rights of all our citizens. In this context, the new constitution, of course, stands before the House as one of the most important issues of our agenda.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0007par0057	What does that have to do with anything?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0002par0058	Once again, in our fight against terrorism, I want to emphasize that we will not compromise any of the rule of law and democratic values. On this occasion, I invite all parties in our great Parliament to work together for a country that has escaped terror and has strengthened its ability to overcome its problems within the framework of democracy and the state of law, and I salute you all. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0008par0061	Thank you, Minister. The first word on behalf of the groups is Republican People's Party İstanbul MP Sezgin Tanrıkulu. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0009par0066	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy to all our fellow citizens who have lost their lives, and I ask patience for their relatives, and I ask the New Year to bring blessings to all our citizens and to Turkey, health and happiness. As I listened to the minister, it was as if I were listening to a minister of the 90s. There's no difference; there's no difference in language, there's no difference in mentality, there's no difference in approach. He read a document given to him, and there's nothing in that document but operations, conflict, death. You should have told us how to keep people alive from this stand, how to solve Turkey's problem without a single person's nose bleeding, but today you've told us about the operation, the death, and you've also proved that you really don't have the will to solve this problem.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0010par0069	He was supposed to brief me, the briefing speech.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0009par0070	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0011par0071	Information...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0012par0072	The minister's talking now, too.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0009par0073	Mr. Secretary, let me tell you this: I wish what you're saying here were true, if only he had one part of it true, if only you'd listened to what you say here, if only you'd walked among people, looked into people's eyes, if only you could shake your hands, but you couldn't do any of it. Before you, the day before, I was there, among the people. I was there the day after you. Our friends came from there yesterday. We were there with our president. We looked into people's eyes, shook people's hands, called people's consciences. Like you, we didn't just sit around and listen to what's being transmitted, we walked amongst the citizens, and we tried to find out what happened, we didn't just get information from one place. Look, I have today's report from the MEZLUMDER, Human Rights Association, Human Rights Foundation, Turkish Medical Association, KESK. I'll give you that report in a little while, 100% the opposite of what you're saying. Will you, as Deputy Prime Minister of this government, be content with the information given to you as Minister of these affairs, or will you really trust the reports of human rights organizations with a conscience of this community? First of all, state this from this platform. Which one are you going to do? That's why you sound like the minister of the '90s here, underlineing it. From seven to seventy, whoever you talk to in Uludere will clearly tell you that 35 of our people have been murdered. No such intelligence or anything, they were clearly sent to their deaths. The battalion knows they're leaving, everyone knows they're coming back. Their way back was blocked, they were assembled in one place, and then, whatever information it was, whatever information it was, it was bombed to death. And we met with the remnant of them, and met with the council of Salih. He's got records here, too. I'll give them to you in a minute. He survived the incident, survived. Did you listen to him? He could have made it very clear to you how it happened. You have come to power on the charge of opening, but today your only work to the East and the Southeast is death, nothing more. Dear MPs, those who are on their way to Diyarbakir will remember immediately, there is a very familiar sound there: the sound of warplanes one after another. These planes have been taking off for ten years. You've taken over the government's unresolved state policies from the government's ceberut logic, and you continue to carry on with the resolution as severe as possible. A week ago, however, there were ministers who had never even begun, who were so much more likely to continue the democratic opening. As a favor to the Kurdish problem, we will give them whatever rights they have. We didn't want to be given rights on international platforms, but we wanted to ignore this ignorance, even though it was known to be recognized and spoken. Then 35 people, including children, were destroyed in a pen. They're buried in mass graves, and they're gone. It's a human thing to talk about. For one thing, if a country forces a 13-year-old child to cross the line after a mule for the debt of a canteen, it's not the limit, it's what the Prime Minister likes to use, it's the end of the line. That's how people die in model country. Has there been any opportunity for those people, in that harsh geography, to be humiliated, without being human, without being human? There's been an operation accident. It's called an operation accident. That's how unconscionable it is. It's a shame for the people of this country to be callous enough to say those words. So that's how worthless human life is. There is not a single minister taking on political responsibility, taking responsibility for the irreparable mistake. Is this your idea of democracy? You're going to say "accident." The harshness of the prime minister's speech today is his aggressive manner of avoiding responsibility, fueling debates, trying to cover up the essence, the shame of power. Let this reckless, reckless attack on our party that seeks to make this pain a common mourning of society not be a reflection of insufferable opposition in your mind, blindness to truth, disrespect to Kurds. Don't fool anyone. You don't have any policies, you don't have any programs. More importantly, you have neither the courage nor the human interest to solve this problem. Unfortunately, power has blinded you, made you deaf. You only hear your own voice, and this deafness, blindness, comes back to Turkey as more death. You don't even know what these people are going through, and you still don't. Is there a study in the most unsafe part of the world that allows them to travel miles and miles in the harshest environment and have a distraction outside of smuggling, the nation and beyond? Without removing the F-16 planes from Diyarbakır, loading them with the world's most advanced bombs, without negotiating with the United States and Israel and Heron, you might tend to view this problem as a lack of democracy, a lack of human rights, a lack of justice. The way to truly make Turkey a model country is through humanity. You could show the Covenant not in other places, but in understanding the problems and problems of our own citizens. You could've called the Covenant and the Agreement in this House. But what are you doing? You've got a lot of work to do. He's a prisoner of war monopoly to arm himself and buy new Herons. Do you know that arguing about the Herons has made peace impossible in places of conflict? You've become a blacked-out pawn in a new war market for close to $100 billion. Doesn't Israel drive the same vehicles, and you call it what kind of state? Is it not the rule of Israel, the weapon, the logic, that made the Palestinian issue a gangrene today? Isn't it your job to create a climate for every human being to live in? You don't realize that your policy and your look, unfortunately, are making you Israeli. Such callous, unappreciated, unappreciative behavior is unconscionable. I don't want to use another word. Have you seen the photos of the dead? If you have the courage, Mr. Secretary, take a look at the autopsy photos and the transcripts. What does a mother and son do when they're dead? At least he wants to see his face before he can bury it, see his body as a whole. There's something so dirty that the dead have no faces, no heads, no bodies, and according to the witnesses of those who were raised at the scene, there's still bodies burning, charring, burning under mules. What conscience would accept that? Don't let the mothers cry. You said. You're sending charred funerals to mothers all over the area. That's all the angle you're making. That's enough glory for you. Let's try and solve this problem with courage. If you have a program, other than death, let's support the sheep. The Prime Minister said today that 50 percent voted for us, are you smarter than they are? These words, which will not be heard in democracies, also show how well the AKP views those who do not vote for it. Gülyazı is where Turkey ends, where it ends as a border, where the conscience ends, but what we see in person is where people have no faith in conscience. So let us hear their voice, and offer the opportunity to live as a human being to our deserving citizens. That's what we do.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0013par0086	Dear God, you're out of time, can you wrap it up in two minutes?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0009par0087	My fellow Regents, let's at least set up a research commission here, and through this research commission, let's investigate this problem in full detail. Mr. Secretary has stated that there is an ongoing administrative and judicial investigation here. Again, these words remind me of the 90s. In the 90s, there were endless judicial and administrative investigations. But there's something else here, Mr. Secretary, that you don't know. Don't you have any political responsibility? Who gives these orders? Who's in charge? Who chose you? Who are you responsible for? You're only gonna put two officers in charge? On whose orders did those planes take off? He was removed by the authority you handed over, and removed by the authority you gave him. If you're launching the world's most advanced fighter aircraft, if you're dropping the most advanced bombs, you're going to stand up with zero mistakes, zero mistakes, not one person's nose will bleed, but what did you do? You sent our people to their deaths without considering the information you received. Isn't that your responsibility? Don't you have any moral responsibility? Don't you have any political responsibility? Political responsibility and fulfilling it is a great virtue. That's what happens in democracy. Look at Germany. He accidentally killed Afghan citizens in Afghanistan, the German Minister of Defense, this honorable minister resigned because of the death of civilians in Germany. The same example exists in Colombia, but Turkey was not like Colombia in your day. It's not like the Germany you're so proud of. Political responsibility is a virtue, and resignation is an institution, consider it, and fulfill your duty to Turkey. If you've got this much in mind, I'll let you know. If the place where this happened, the identities of the dead, and the work that they did, tends to see it legitimate in your mind, they were already smugglers, Kurds, you already know the area. If you're acting with a mind world like that, you won't be able to run this resignation. Is this what you would have done if this had happened somewhere else in Turkey? Is this how Christmas was supposed to be celebrated in Turkey, Mr. Secretary? What did you do? What did you do to make this pain a partner?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0014par0091	Mr. Godkulu, thank you very much, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0009par0092	We, the Republican People's Party, will be followers to the end of this event in order to unite this community. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0014par0095	On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is Mr. Oktay Vural, MP of İzmir on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Vural.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0015par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to share your opinion and opinion on behalf of the National Party of Action, after our security forces on December 28th assessed intelligence that terrorists would cross the border, and in the wake of this operation, the loss of 35 of our citizens, the Vice Prime Minister's Deputy Prime Minister's extracurricular speech. First of all, I ask for God's mercy on the citizens who lost their lives in this case. Naturally, as soon as this incident took place as a party, on December 31st, 2011, Mr. President, on this day, presented the nationalist Movement Party's perspective on the issue. First of all, it must not be taken out of mind that Turkey's fight against terrorism has always been legal, political and democratic legitimacy, and so far, Turkey has carried out its determination to continue its fight without overcoming democratic and legal legitimacy while the entire republic's governments are fighting terrorism. Of course, Mr. Secretary, we've just been fighting terrorism. And when we say that there have been some errors in the previous administrations, we can't really accept the zeal to blame the past on even such a national issue. In that regard, the struggle today was legitimate, as it was yesterday, with legal and democratic legitimacy. In that respect, it would be unacceptable for the Minister to suggest that such a matter would not seem to be fought by the governments before them. But first of all, we're dealing with terror when he should have made a difference. Mr. Bashir Atalalay, who said, "We're dealing with terrorism," was also discussed on the basis of negotiations with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), which means that we need to know that there is also a Deputy Prime Minister who started a negotiation process and, in light of these solutions, there is a Deputy Prime Minister who carries the openings to this day. Of course, taking tweezers in such a great battle of great sacrifice and twisting these events with tweezers and questioning the fight against terrorism is actually the result of psychological action. The fact that those who cannot achieve their goals with the terrorist organization, obviously the political values protected by those who fight terrorism, and when looked at in this way, it makes the fight against terrorism seem like an illegal, non-democratic struggle, and the fact that Turkey is forcing it into a political solution means that the gunmen meet in the same way as those who want to do what they want to do unarmed. In that respect, the Republic of Turkey has always known and paid great attention to the fight against terror that it has maintained so far. Those who want to accuse the state of the Republic of Turkey of killing with these isolated incidents, the murderous state. In fact, we need to consider where they want to take Turkey, which is where they want to take it. So let's take it as part of a larger political game beyond an isolated event, and let the Turkish Armed Forces put the fight against terrorism outside the realm of legitimacy; they can't do it. In order to use it on the bread of those who mean it, we have to clearly decipher those who want to use it. In the fight against terrorism -- legitimizing political goals -- we'll give what the terrorist organization wants, whatever they want, we'll give it all out of our pocket. If those who say they meet in the same goal at the point of reaching the political goals of the terrorist organization, all these things that they want to do today have been massacred by the state today. We have to test the political solutions and the search for political solutions and whatever they want us to do today. Today, we bear witness that those who ignore the political values of the fight against terrorism, those who seek political solutions, distort these events. Look, at this point where we're here today, in Turkey's fight against terrorism, at least at the point where the government is moving forward in the fight against terrorism today, what is the purpose and goal of those who want Turkey's fight against terrorism out of legitimacy? First of all, we need to question this. When Turkey is fighting terrorism, suddenly we need to do a political solution by using new Habur and new openings, then using something like this, so that's not a weapon. Can't we see people meeting on the same axis? What different actors want to take us where? I think that's what we need to see. If those who offer solutions to new Habur scandals while Turkey has closed the Habur scandals are doing so at this point where we are here today, those who have made the demons free of empty openings, the demons, and the right to decide their own fate, are they not meeting on the same axis as those who want to make Turkey's fight against terrorism meaningless? For him, with all these events, his actors may be different, but with a share of roles, Turkey wants to be dragged to a certain point. The only thing we have to remember is that we have the most legitimate right to fight a terrorist organization that wants to divide Turkey, which shoots its soldiers, police, killing our babies, our young girls, and has political and legal legitimacy. So using these events to legitimize the political intentions of a terrorist organization, giving up the will to fight terrorism, exclusion, we're going to bring Mr. Minister into the new constitution when he has no place just now...... bald interest, what's that got to do with it! What does that have to do with anything? So you're saying that we're going to bring someone back? So, in a platform like this, the constitution, the right to determine its own destiny, the fact that you're here today in order to put oil on the bread of those who raise demands such as federalism, ignores even the political purpose of the fight against terrorism. Don't you have the police, military, teacher of this country, the value that this country protects? Didn't they fight to protect the values? You're just gonna give it to me behind a desk? In that sense, while the Minister has just criticised what such an event can be used for, the state has massacred, political solutions are needed. When I say so, I have to say that I consider it a new copy of a role sharing of a constitutional solution demand on this axis. In that sense, where Turkey is going; you have to look at it. So, I'm asking you, where does the PKK's terrorist organization get its economic resources? Isn't it smuggling? Is cigarette smuggling, fuel smuggling, smuggling legitimate? If there's no fight against the smuggling of cigarettes, fuel, while our police are fighting a terrorist organization in the mountains, our military, our military, our teacher, is it being used as bait? The fight against terrorism requires a total struggle. It is known that with Barzani, who was smuggling cigarettes in Saddam Husseini, together with Uday Husseini, today Barzani and the PKK are financing terrorism through cigarette smuggling in that area, making smuggling legit and looking at the issue with an approach that forced people to traffic, a legitimate approach, means that we have no knowledge of the financing of the PKK's terrorist organization, so how can we tolerate it? If there is smuggling in a region that can only be trafficked by the permission of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), who is the source of this smuggling going to, where is it going; the government must fight it. Illegal cigarettes are sold all over Ankara. Know that the shares of these illegal cigarettes return to our soldiers, our police, our engineers, our children as bullets. In that sense, the more wrong an approach to smuggling is the more wrong it is that people in that area are being led to smuggling.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0016par0114	Mr. Vural, your time is up. Can you wrap it up in two minutes, please?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0015par0116	Thank you. Where are your projects that can make people in that area, people in that area, financially strong? Where are they? You know, with one hand in the oil and one hand in the honey? On the one hand, it is a region in which economic difficulties arise, and on the other hand, it is a region in which the PKK provides its own financing through smuggling. In that sense, as the National Movement Party, the conclusion is that the state of the Republic of Turkey has the legal legitimacy of fighting terrorism, and those who want to make it illegal want to move Turkey towards a political solution. A mindset that makes the state look like a massacrer, and a sense of state that is not with the people in the area, unfortunately, has hurt all of us deeply, even the popular treatment of our trustees who went there. No? We can't protect our government, our trustee, but how do we protect the citizens there? In that respect, as a nationalist movement party, the state must continue to fight terrorism without deterrence of the fight against terrorism and strengthen its opinion that our police, our soldiers, are behind our guard, that he is not involved in terrorism, that he is with the people in the region. In this regard, the area in which the PKK was located in the north of Iraq must surely be crushed in its lair, and it is now inevitable that a safe zone will be established on our border. I, along with this incident, express my respect to all of you, that the entire Turkish nation is behind the fight against terrorism, against our heroic police, our soldiers, our rangers, against terrorism.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0017par0122	Thank you, Mr. Vural. Now, on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Your time is ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Winteranak.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0127	I'd like to address those who have a conscience on this stand today, and there's not much left to say to those who have no conscience. With his government, with his government, with his media, with the vast majority of this Parliament, he was already in the classroom in this accounting of conscience, but I would like to address those who have a conscience, who respect humanity, who call themselves human. What happened in that village? I'm talking to people who want to understand that, who want to feel that. We're looking at an open, planned massacre. No one lies enough to hide that fact. Thousands of people there know the truth. At best, you can hide this fact from our Turkish citizens in the west, who have no way of getting there. I'll address their conscience from here. I'm going to call out to the conscientious Turks from here, to the people who live in the west of Turkey, who don't get there. And to understand what's going on there, I'm going to tell you about a few little things that happened there, the evaluations of what happened there, the testimony. When the fighters bombed the children of 13, 14, 15, the children hid under the mules' bellies to hide. The boy thought that with his mind, they could protect themselves from the bombs, and the bodies of those children were mixed with the bodies of broken mules, their blood. I doubt the humanity of those who don't get goosebumps in front of this painting. [[A round of applause from BDP rows]] Those children trembled with the noise of the fighter planes, under the bombs. They searched for cliffs to hide in fear, holding hands. When we pulled their dismembered bodies out from under the rocks, the ranger boy and the other family's child held hands. Maybe they thought if we held hands, we'd get rid of death, that's how many kids they were. I doubt the humanity of those who don't understand this painting, who don't get goose bumps, who don't even think about apologizing to this painting, who don't have a conscience accounting in front of this painting. One of those kids thought he could save himself from the bombs, maybe the deaths, by saying the words. His index finger was in the air when we found his body. He died under those bombs, in the words of those who had survived. I doubt whether it is the humanity or the faith of those who call themselves Muslims, who do not feel ashamed, who do not have to answer for it, who don't have to ask for it. Everyone knows what we went through. What smuggling, what smuggling? A pack of cigarettes wouldn't be smuggling. You don't talk about smuggling when you're moving trillions around here, wasting stuff out of government pockets, looting, smuggling taxes. Half of this country's economy is off the books, that's smuggling. Where are the people who siphoned the banks? Where's the big bootleggers, the looters? Is that what you call smuggling because he went two miles from his own village on his own land for a living? Is that your conscience? Go and see those villagers, if you want to understand, the villagers' home is on the border with Turkey, and their fields are considered the Iraqi border. Every day, those peasants, as you call them, cross the border as fugitives, mowing crops in their fields, grazing livestock. What limit? Smuggling what? Have you no conscience, no humanity? And in the middle of the day, in front of the police station for years, in the midst of the knowledge of all government officials, we didn't know, we didn't see, we thought it was a terrorist, there was an operation accident. Is that all you've come out of your humanity? In an environment where 35 lives and 35 souls died, even if there was a car accident, there was an accident. First he does a conscience accounting, first he questions his own humanity, first he knows how to share the pain, first he grieves, but we heard about the operation accident twenty hours after this government. Who the hell are you? Who are you! How can you be so careless, so presumptuous, so inhuman in the face of the killing of 35 people? You'll go out first, you'll apologize, you'll apologize, you'll be sorry if you're human, if you have a conscience. But before you do that, it's like a fly died, like two chickens died, and you say, "Operation accident." Shame, shame! Hiccup! Shame on you! What terror? What war on terror? Is there a massacre left in this country that you haven't done in 90 years because you're fighting terrorism? For 90 years, you've been fighting against the bandit, fighting against the rebel, fighting a people under the name of the terrorist, slaughtering a people, trying to eliminate the Kurdish people.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0019par0136	It's too heavy.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0137	There's no terror problem, everybody knows that, everybody knows that.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0019par0138	Not at all.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0020par0139	Not at all.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0140	What's that got to do with anything? What's been happening in this country for 30 years? Whose children died there, where they come from, where they go, did you ask your conscience? Even the General Staff of this country, even the Chief of Staff of this country, has come out and said: "We have killed 40,000 people, we have emptied the mountains five times, but this problem is not over. Do you still not understand this fact? There's a people there, a people! One people have rights, one people have denied identity; there's Kurdish problem, there's no terrorism problem, and there's humanity, and there's a problem with remorse. That's the problem, you'll see.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0021par0141	First tell your own conscience.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0142	We'll pay for this! We'll pay for this! Those who are willing to threaten the Kurdish people by slaughtering 35 lives who were seen by their mules during the day in front of the police station will see that they will remain under this massacre! No one is afraid of death. Is there a village beyond death? The important thing is not to lose your conscience, the important thing is not to lose your humanity, the important thing is that we can live in peace, brotherly but equal in this country. It means that we can accept this sense of equality. What do you think is superior to us? What are you more than us? What are more Turks than Kurds? What was greater than the Jews of Hitler, the Germans? We're all human beings, human beings! That's our common denominator. People have rights, rights are one of them. You'll accept it, you'll see it. In this country, as an equal citizen, anyone can share an honorable life side by side, with their own identity, their right to free citizenship. But we will never accept dishonor, never! We won't accept a thousand massacres! We won't choose to give up our identity, give up our culture, give up our humanity, even if it means a thousand massacres. I say this to those who have no conscience, I say this to those who have no humanity. I speak to those who remain silent and do literature in the face of this massacre.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0022par0145	Tell yourself!
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0146	Shut up! Shut up! You didn't dare curse the massacre. Shut up!
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0023par0147	You shut up!
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0148	Someone tells us: "We will not allow you to set the roots. " What is the root of? Roots for what? We've been in this land for a thousand years. Our roots are in the depths of those rocks, and in those stones, and in Cudi, and in Gabbar, and in Ağar, and in Munzur. We're here, we've been here since history, and we'll be here from now on. (Applause from BDP rows) What is rooting? Our roots are already here. Our ancestors are here, our grandparents are here, our graves are here, our tongues are here, our culture is here. What don't you allow to take root? What are you talking about? What kind of sentences are these? Shame on those who make these sentences. Those words are a sign of today's mentality, which has denied the existence of Kurdish people in this country for thousands of years.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0024par0150	Mr. Winteranak, your time is up. Pick it up in two minutes, please.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0018par0152	I find my anger justified as a woman, as a human being, as a mother. I went, I lived, I hugged those women there. I hugged two brothers, three brothers, girls, young girls. I know exactly what they're going through. If you have a heart, if you have a human heart, you apologize, share their pain, and you go and embrace them. But it's an operation accident, it's a fight against terrorism, we're going to continue, we're not going to let them take root. You can't go near these people with words like that. It's so obvious, so obvious. You'll know where you stand. Every human being has his own place to choose. In its posture, in its speech, in its policy, in what it does, in its own way, it determines its place with its humanity. This is a crime against humanity. We're not gonna let it go. Until the end, we're going to take every opportunity international law has given us, and we're going to answer for it. Those who command it, those who command it, those who deliver the bombs, those who destroy the bodies of those children, those young saplings, will answer to this people. Someone says, "No intent, no apology, no compensation." Shame on you, shame on you! You know what they call that in our culture? Blood money. If I have money, I'll commit murder, pay for it, cover it up. Now, I have the government, the power, the murder, the money, the cover-up? Shame on you! I have power, I have power, I have money, I kill, then I give you the money and I close it. Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0025par0158	Thank you, Mr. Winteranak. On behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Mr. Mahir Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0026par0163	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to share the opinion of the EC PARTY Group in a briefing last week on the death of 35 of our citizens as a result of an incident in Uludere district of Şırnak province. It's best known in this geography to understand human beings, to understand human suffering, to have a conscience, to know man's story, to live that story in your heart, and to appreciate it simply because it's human. If we're going to talk about this geography's culture, civilization, its tradition, its history, its tradition, its culture, its heritage, its humanity, and I want to know that this brotherhood is based on a brotherhood of spirituality and spirituality, which is not based on ethnicity and spirituality, and can't distinguish the union and unity of the children of Abraham. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] First of all, we didn't tell the PKK to choose terrorism as a method. If someone has seen terror and weapons as a method, and has not yet shown the will to speak against those who choose terrorism and weapons as a method, they have no right here to teach us a lesson in humanity, nor have they. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Our hearts burned, our hearts burned. It's not a piece of cake to run a state, it takes a serious responsibility. Yes, we cried for those children in Uludere, and so did my friends. The desperation of those children burned all our hearts.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0027par0169	Crocodile tears... crocodiles cry, too.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0026par0170	And we, for nine years... we, for nine years... have known the state's understanding of democracy best, Mr. Godkulu. You of all people know the difference between the democracy of the state of the 90s and our understanding of democracy today, Mr. Godkulu. So I'm not saying this to you as an answer, but to repeat something you know. When we look here from where we came from, you all know that we are step-by-step followers of the Foundation Program when we put it in our 2002 Foundation Program as people who are experiencing the southeast issue, the Kurdish issue, the country's lack of democracy, the problems with rights and freedoms, in nine years, and everything happens in front of this nation. I'm not saying these words to justify anything or to make this conversation a defense statement. If it's a conscience, it's a conscience. You all know exactly what we've been fighting for nine years, what we've been up against, what we've been up against, what we've been up against, the law, the gangs and certain altars. First of all, if it's a conscience, you have to give it credit. Yeah, we're all very upset about what happened, we're all burned up. Forensic, administrative questioning is under way. Of course we'll never let this be covered up, we'll be his followers. There's one side of this, but there's another side to it, friends: the political institution is the solution institution, the politician is the solution focus. Running a political institution requires first political will. The politician is not the one who feeds on negative emotions, hatred, hatred, and hatred in society. The politician is the one who solves the problems through the political institution as the top institution, and the functioning of the political institution is only with a parliament that has been released from custody, reflected by the national will. Look, if we can share this Parliament here today, if the political institution operates here, what we need to do here is create hostility, create hatred, build hate over it, and accuse each other of hate. When we went to Uludere, we faced hatred. When we set out to go to the condolence tent, unfortunately, we found out that our governor had been attacked and that the mourners had left the condolence tent to protest, and we went to the house of our condolences owners. Our condolences were all there, we listened, we talked, we talked, and we promised them that each of us would carry out our responsibility for the pursuit of this, because it's our duty. As I've just said, the main task of the political institution is to solve problems first, but if you want to build a nation again, and if you're constantly talking about a people and using a segregation language, there's a separate people in the Van earthquake, there's no solution, there's no solution, there's a build-up, there's a segregation language, and if you're using a segregation language that's happening today in Uldere, through the event that happened in Uldere, then there's a different people in this country, and if you're trying to create a sense that someone is torturing them, then who's going to ask you, who's there? Are you on the side of this state, this nation, this union, this union, or are you on the side of separation, separatism, dissociativeness, terrorism?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0028par0174	We're not with the massacrers, we're definitely against the massacrers, we're against the massacrers, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0026par0175	We say openly, we say: Come put your political will on the table, take your political will from your trust, bring it to the House of the People, reflect your political will to the Parliament of the nation. Let him with his political will produce the solution to the political institution, and let's figure it out, because we've been putting our bodies under the stone for nine years now to sort it out. Everyone knows what we're fighting, what we're fighting. So no one, no political party, will attempt to create a runt out of this problem, but let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's make a solution.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0029par0176	What in God's name would that be worth?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0026par0177	To take this matter up and illustrate it with 33 Bullet Events, to raise this issue and pursue the PARTI demolition project. But we want to make it very clear that our 74 million citizens have the right, the law is holy to us, every one of them is a first-class citizen to us, and that we, as citizens, are on their side as the AK PARTI authority, and that someone is supposed to produce a people through their so-called ethnic identity.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0179	Mr. Ünal, your time is up, please wrap it up in two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0026par0180	We won't let him build a people, we won't let him divide here, we won't let him dream of leaving here, we won't let him. Trouble is our problem, it's our problem, our trouble is our problem, those children are our children. So no one should get up and use a different language. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0183	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. Now, I'm going to make three off-the-tops pledges.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0031par0185	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0186	The first statement is from Mersin MP Çifdem Münevver Ökkın, who asked to address the 90th anniversary of the liberation of the province of Mersin from enemy occupation.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0031par0187	Mr. President, Mr. Speaker...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0188	Here you go, Mr. Kökten.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0031par0190	Sir, I want word on Article 69.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0191	We don't have that kind of procedure.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0031par0192	Sir, speaking of my name, speaking of my name in the 90s, the speaker...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0193	You gave an example of the 90s.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0032par0194	Mr. President, may I begin my speech?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0195	Please, please...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0033par0196	I want to answer him. Please, I'd like to take my word for it from now on.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0030par0197	Please, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0034par0200	Mr. President, I thank God for the 35 people who lost their lives in Şırnak Uludere, and for the patience of their families. As you all know, societies who don't know their past can't shape their future in any way. Therefore, I have taken an off-the-top promise to mark the 90th anniversary of the liberation of January 3 of Mersin. The year is 1918, October 30th. The First World War ended with the 25-point Mondros Ink for the Ottoman Empire. By not contenting with this agreement, the colonial states began to occupy all parts of the country, especially the heart of the Empire, with a decision they made in Paris. The year is December 17, 1918. The British, who began the morning occupation from Mersin, then left their allies to the French, Mersin, Adana, Maraş, Antwerp, Uruguay, and Antalya. January 1, 1919. Only 150 soldiers of the 1,500 occupation army are French, the rest are Armenian legionaries, and have entered Mersin. Now, let's not forget that the original source of the bill, which is considered guilty of the denial of the so-called Armenian genocide adopted by the French Parliament today, is based on the occupying mind of the past. Dear lawmakers, this invasion, which never deters the Mersinites, has made the region a strong front for Kuvaymilliya, at the point of resistance. Mersin, the first martyr of the Salvation War, Efrenk P.D. Sergeant Major Ali Pasha Sakkan, son of Aziz, ask Allah's mercy. By the way, Efrenk crowns his name as lionville with his first salvation victory. I, too, am here in Parliament with you as the grandson of a family of martyrs who had a family of lions and fought there. During the occupation in Mersin, a multi-religious, multicultural ethnic community, the locals were united and showed a unique example of unity, unity, and unity throughout the world. Dear MPs, Gunnery Lt. Izzet Bey, Major Hussein Husnu Bey, Mengenli Emin Bey and Melis Captain Kaleköy are the first founders of Kuvasimilliye. These founding fathers, Taro, Kırova, Silifke, Cool, Temük, Erçel, and the National Guard. My people of Mersin, the elderly, the young, the woman, the man and the woman, despite the insufficient ammunition, have turned a mass resistance into a victory. At the same time, during the national struggle, the Turkish woman demonstrated her strength by fighting in every field and at the front. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, I have worked harder than an Anatolian woman in the world, and I have worked as hard as an Anatolian woman in order to lead people to salvation and victory. Here are our women of courage, virtue, and honor: Hatice Hatun, who served in the militia in Çukurova, led them into the trap and defeated them by misleading the French forces of Tekir Yayla, asking for the shortest way to Mersin. This struggle ended on October 20, 1921, when the French signed the Ankara Agreement with the French and were fired from Mersin on January 3, 1922. On this occasion, I would like to remember the great poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy, a proud member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and a witness of the age, with mercy and respect in the seventy-five years of his arrival in eternity, because his efforts to free the nation from the chain of bondage in the extraordinary conditions of the National War have not only laid the groundwork of writing and poetry in the wake of society, but have also strengthened our unity and unity and unity at the same time. Here I remember our ancestors and veterans, who died for the sake of our national front, who will never be shaken within the national borders, with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0035par0214	Thank you, Mr. Kültek, your time is up.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0034par0215	I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0035par0217	Members of parliament, Mersin MP Özturk would like to give his opinion on the matter, one minute, at his location. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0036par0221	Dear MPs, January 3, 1922 is the day Mersin was released from the French. With the determination and determination of the National Liberation War, the French and British imperialists were expelled from Mersin, and thus the people of Mersin were liberated. Ninety years have passed, and today on January 3, 2012, we celebrate the 90th year of the salvation of Mersin. We are also celebrating this with a day of real suffering in Uludere. If a society cannot share its suffering, its joys, it can't maintain its national unity and integrity. Therefore, I say we must preserve our national unity and unity by sharing our sorrows and joys. Because of Mersin's Day of Salvation, I give my regards and my love to all the Mersinites.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0037par0224	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. The second statement outside the agenda belongs to Adıyaman MP Adıyaman Mr. Salih Fırat, who wants to talk about the death of 35 of our citizens as a result of an air operation on the border of Uludere district of Şırnak province. Here you are, Mr. Firat. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0038par0232	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I would like to tell you about the observation we made here in Uludere, leaving my political identity aside. My five deputies, Hüseyin Aygün, Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba, Müğla MP Nurettin Demir, Manisa MP Hasan Ören. We were in Uludere yesterday with our Army MP İdris Yıldız, and we were in Gülyaz village. When we set out, we stayed in a hotel in Şırnak at night. There was also the Uludere subsidiary at the hotel. We visited and said, "Get well soon." We listened to him. He said, exactly, that I have been crying for these children for two days. I made them a carpet court a week ago, where we played ball together. Since the region has been on the verge of unemployment, poverty for many years, it is known that people in that region have been smuggling in order to provide for their livelihood, including the knowledge of the official and government's superiors, including their military superiors. This is what we hear from the mouth of the governor. We know it is, because I served there in 90 years -- where even the bird that goes to the border will know about the soldier and the authorities there; who goes where, who goes where, which goes where, which goes to the house, which stays in the house. So that day there, for the bread money, for the Christmas present, for the bus fare, for the bus fare, and for the mules, for the children who were going to bring the gas and the sugar, because the state knew about every breath there. The two are over twenty years old, and the rest are all under twenty; there are children until the age of thirteen, and they study in elementary school, and in high school. One of his fellow students came to us, and he said, "If there's a fire in that area, if there's going to be a death in that area, will the 13-year-old send his child to the border if there's going to be death in that area?" Can you send it? Of course not. You have to look at this as a human being, you have to look at it as a human being. There, we interviewed the survivors. That's exactly what they're saying, even we've been bombed. Because we've been going here every day, for the last month, for the last 15 days, we've been out in front of us, this last group is the least group, we're going 100 people, we're going 150 people, we're going 70 people, and when we're gone, there are multiple mules. That's how we go, yeah, there's no settlement across the border from Iraq, but with cars, jeeps, cigarettes or diesels or sugar, we load up our mules, and the soldier lets us pass. Because we have no means of livelihood, no means of livelihood, they said. On that day, they leave the village at 4:00 p.m., 40 friends leaving with about 70 mules. They're going back to the border of Turkey in groups of fives and six, loading their loads there, and they're watching as the crossing roads are blocked by soldiers, and they're waiting for us to open up and go back to the village, looking for the people in the village: we've been cut off, we can't come. Meanwhile, other groups come and grow, where they pile up in groups of twentys, thirties, and a bullet of enlightenment is fired, followed by an obese cannon. After that flare of enlightenment, about ten minutes later, the planes come in and bomb it, and they say that the soldiers who held the road before the bombing -- after that bullet of enlightenment -- slowly retreated in their cars. That's the thing. You're gonna go see it, and you're gonna tell the truth about what you saw, and you're not gonna hide what you saw if you want to knit it or if you're going as an observer. That's how we saw it. That's the painting. Our citizens see the state guilty here, the state must apologize to us. It says, "The state must expose this incident." They say, "Who gave the order?" Who gave you the intel? Who dropped the bomb? We've been killed on purpose. They say, "We don't want to be killed." They say, "That's enough." They say, "We're going for food." They say, "We're going for food." That's the way it is, folks, that's the way it is. He's a terrorist, that's what he is... a terrorist who doesn't need to be killed, you arrest him, you put him in jail, you ambush him, you shoot him. There's no warning, no fire, no nothing, there's a bomb coming down the hill for no reason, guys. That's the gist of it. So let's think over politics, think about human rights, figure this out. Please, I want the government to explain this, do what it has to do. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0039par0239	Mr. Firat, thank you. In the matter, our Şırnak MP has a request for a minute to report his position. Mr. Mehmet Emin Dindar, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0040par0244	Mr. President, there was a tragic incident in 28/12/2011, where we lost 35 of our young people, our lungs. On a second occasion, a beloved Sub-Committee came to our condolences. We regret to inform you of that, too. In order to find the perpetrators of both cases, we will be followers of those who have done wrong to answer to the authorities and positions of law, regardless of their position. I pay my respects to our people, who come from a distance and are concerned about our problems, as an MP of Şırnak. To avoid such a painful event again, we send those people and us to Almighty God, and may God help us and help us, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0041par0248	Thank you. The third non-responsive speech belongs to Osmaniye MP Hasan Hüseyin Türkoğlu, who wants to address the 90th anniversary of Osmaniye province's liberation from enemy occupation. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0042par0256	Mr. President, I have made an off-the-top promise to the Turkish nation in honor of the 90th anniversary of the liberation of the Turkish nation, the southern gate of Anatolia, the 80th province of the Republic of Turkey, the city of Çukurova, the city of Osmaniye, from enemy occupation. I salute your high council. Last week at Uludere, I ask the people who lost their lives yesterday in Kırıkkale to have mercy on them, and I pray that they will forget the suffering and worries of the year we left behind in 2012. A late Ottoman citizen who lived under the name of Juydur Ahmet (Cuidur) says to those around him, pointing to a dog that barks at him on the road: "The mind of the dog doesn't know that I have a stick in my hand. This is a promise that the Turkish nation will show great tolerance and great patience and attitude when it comes to its place. Ninety-four years ago, in 1918, colonial states who thought that the world was created only for themselves occupied Osmaniye, as part of the plan to crush the Ottomans, who were considered to be the losers of World War I. First, for a short time, the British came to Osmaniye, and then the French were the real invaders. That's the French who made genocides in Algeria, who kept lovers of human-killing terrorists. Today, they became accomplices of crime and crimes by killing and looting in Osmaniye, with local Armenians, whom they claim to have been genocided. Unable to withstand the situation, the Ottomans waged an armed struggle in parallel with the national struggle launched by Mustafa Kemal in May 1919, and organized gangs. The Red Platoon, consisting of burning and Black Sea villagers, was one of those gangs, including Rahime Hatun (Rahime Corporal) of the village of Raziye, who is today from the village of Raziye, who will then send the mausoleum marble to the Memorial. On August 5, 1920, they gave them the first defeat by taking over the French headquarters, even at the risk of martyring the heroic Turkish woman Rahime Hatunyak, Yasti Kellet, Mamuk Hussein, Kadir Sergeant, Muhammad Hoxha, Nacar Ökkeş, Borazan Mehmet, Hadji Agha Sons Ali and Ahmet, Ali Bekiroğlu Ahmet. As I mentioned at first in Cuydur Ahmet's reply, certain wise men who did not know the Turkish nation returned as they did on January 7, 1922. So today on the streets and streets of Osmaniye, on the municipal billboards on behalf of the people of Osmaniye, it says: "Fransa knows us well, from 1922. In fact, the wise ones had come with the Crusaders a thousand years ago, and then the Seljuclu and Ottoman sultans had given the answer Osmaniye had given in 1922. You know, the smart ones have them now, too. Another nation from the Turkish nation intends to take out another country from the Turkish country. The answer we will give them is already ready: as long as we Turkish nationalists are alive and present in this country, the glorious Turkish flag will be preserved in Ankara, Edirne, Van, Haqkari, Muğla, Artvin, Diyarbakır, Antalya, and all over the country; and more than thousands of years of Turkish nation's children will surrender their word of witness in their last breath, and their spirit in their last breath, saying, "We are happy and happy in the last breath of this land." Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have expressed a portion of the country that Turkish nationalists miss: The sky shall be blue, and the branch shall be green, and the field shall be yellow; The land of birds and flowers. No sorrow at first, no longing at heart; Let the brother fight finally come to an end. No rich, no poor, no difference between you and me; Let everyone have their homes on the winter day. Live, like love, from the heart; If there's a complaint, let's make it a death complaint." In honor of the 90th year of Osmaniye's deliverance from enemy occupation, I honor and praise the Turkish nation's MPs, the martyrs and veterans who gave their blood and lives to make this land their homeland.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0043par0279	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Erzurum MP Oktay Ozturk, one minute from his position, in connection with the anniversary of the events of Sarikam. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0044par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. As you know, ninety-seven years ago, during the Ottoman-Russian Battle of the First World War, one of the events of Turkish history took place in the Yellowkamis Mountains of Allahuekber. In World War I, the battle against seven heifers was fought not only against enemy forces, but also against harsh climate conditions. The most dramatic example of this was in Sarıkamis. As on many fronts in World War I, the Turkish army, who fought heroically on the Caucasus front, succumbed to difficult climate conditions in Sarıkamiş, where many martyrs have been given, but Operation Yellowkamis is not simply a highlight to these climate conditions. Operation Yellowkamis is also an expression of the kind of conscience, the kind of humanity this nation has had to live on this land that has made this land for a thousand years. Operation Sarıkamis also describes the struggle for the flag, the country, the nation, which demonstrates the will and determination of the Turkish soldier under no circumstances. Yellowkamis tells us the sad and epic story of the sons of their country who fought heroically on the Caucasian front. In these days, the so-called Armenian genocide claims have been voiced, I am grateful and grateful to all of our veterans who have signed such epic heroic stories from the past, including Operation Yellowkamis, who fought against both Russian armies and Armenian gangs, especially veterans Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and their comrades in arms.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0045par0288	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. Congressmans, we're going on the agenda now. Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, asked questions in the "Promised Questions" section of the agenda: 1,148, 151, 159, 166, 172, 181, 186, 190, 203, 232, 251, 281, 289, 292, 316, 336, 354, 366, 343, 343, 409, 427, 430, 430, 450, 451, 506, 586, 616, 616, 616, 6181, 616, 621, 620, 620, 620, 620, and 620, 620, 620, 620, 615, 620, 6151, 620, 615, and 620, 620, 620, and 620. I'll grant the Minister's request when it's his turn. The presidency now has its presentations to the General Assembly. Our president has a thesis. I'll read it and present it to your knowledge: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The General Assembly of the Turkish National Assembly adopted on 23/12/2011, with the 6262 Law on Retirement Ark of the Republic of Turkey and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. In addition to other issues, the Law has shown that arrangements for pensions of foreign ministers and lawmakers have been included. A amendment to Law 21/11/2001, dated 21/11/2001, which regulates the funding and travel of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, along with the funds and roads of members of the Turkish National Assembly and the continued interest of those whose pension members and pensioners are concerned with the Turkish Republic's Retirement Ark. Thus, the pensions of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been established on the constitutional basis, while the difference in pension rights stemming from the establishment of interest in different social security institutions has been ensured that they follow the same pension rights and opportunities, provided they are taken into consideration with the Republic of Turkey's Retirement Ark. Its second joke, which also states that the grants and routes to the members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly would not be required to be cut if they had pensions and similar payments connected to them by social security agencies, has been changed in line with the change in the first joke, in order to ensure that pensions tied by the Turkish Republic's Retirement Chest do not be cut off. The Constitutional Commission Report on the proposed constitutional amendment states that members of the legislative body have to maintain their dignity during the structure and long process of the political institution, and that their social responsibilities continue after their parliamentary position, and that the situation of lawmakers and pensioners should be addressed in a wholety in order to eliminate the high economic status of politics and parliamentary status from being the subject of those at a high level of occupation. Despite the constitutional amendment that was made ten years ago, there have been significant differences between members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and even their president's pensions due to the failure of the legal regulations required by this. The amendment, proposed in Article 43 of Law 5510, under the amendment in Article 86 of the Constitution in 2001, is understood to have been carried out under the regulation of the legislature under the mandate of the amendment to the legislature and that the inequality between the pensions of retired lawmakers is being resolved, but it has been understood in the first statement of Article 38th and Article 43 of the amendment to the Act of the Constitution, to determine whether or not the pension of pensions that are due for any reason, should be applied to those on the outside of the Turkish Parliament or to those on the outside ministry. While the legislature has the capacity to appreciate the setting of those rates, it appears that its implementation by increasing high for a period of eight years is also causing a public conscience. Thus, the framework of the Law being examined is beneficial in reevaluating Article 16. The Article 16 of the Constitution has been sent back in accordance with Article 89 and 104 of Articles of the Constitution, in order to renegotiate Article 89 and 104 of the Constitution, which is not seen as appropriate for the above reasons. It has been presented to your knowledge. There are three motions for a parliamentary investigation. I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Tobacco is a traditional product that has been produced in our country for 400 years. Tobacco was produced in about 120 countries around the world, while tobacco produced in Turkey was quotad, then banned in 2009, tobacco-producing families became unemployed and poor, immigrated and miserable. In the years when tobacco production was launched to support production campaigns, tobacco production in Turkey was among the best in the production of Shark Type Tobacco (oryantel) between 1950 and 2002, while tobacco support purchases after the law in 2002 have been largely reduced due to low cost rates. In the 1980s, more than 70 tobacco companies were operating in the sector, except for Tekel. In later years, some large capital groups, especially in the United States and Britain, destroyed small companies in our country, seized the market, bought tobacco from our producers, at the expense of tobacco producers, went bankrupt, became unemployed, and migrated to major cities. Life in the region has become dire, as producers of the ban on tobacco planting in 2009 became unemployed and poor, especially Batman, Diyarbakır, Mush, Bitlis, Siirt and Adıyaman. Since all the family units are working, tobacco has a significant contribution to the removal of unemployment and poverty in the region. With the monopoly backing the monopoly, more than a million people were produced in the Aegean, the Black Sea, the East, and the Southeast. However, tobacco production came to that point after the government's support was cut from the tobacco manufacturer. Today, though, the Aegean, the Black Sea, East and Southeast tobacco were among the world's finest tobacco tobacco, but the government did not support the tobacco farmer, allowing 1 million families to remain unemployed and poor. Therefore, since 400 years of producing tobacco, unemployment and poverty have increased, while people have migrated to a miserable place, unfortunately the state has paid 372 million dollars to import 83 million kilos of tobacco in 2009. In an effort to determine the extent of our tobacco manufacturer's sacrifice and to determine the extent of the commitments that have been made to this day, the Constitution is 98. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the clauses, I respectfully submit to the opening of a parliamentary investigation. 12.07.2011 [[Ardahan]] [[İstanbul]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Inconceived]] [[Pow-pow-pow-pow]] [[İzmir]] [[Tekirdağ]] 9) Mehmet Ali Ediboğlu [[Hatay]] [[Eskişehir]] [[Manisa]] [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] 14) Sinan Aydın Aygün [[Ankara]] 15) Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] 18) Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[İstanbul]] 20) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] 21) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[40s.]] 23) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the interest of reviewing and determining the negative situation involving beekeepers and honey makers, our Constitution is 98, and it is 104, and 105. By establishing the Commission for Research, we demand and demand the investigation of the problem. Beekeeping is the only agricultural activity that is not dependent on land, but is the only source of livelihood for landless or low-landed families, and also the cheapest and easiest to employ. Our country, climate conditions, diversity of vegetation, is one of the most suitable countries for beekeeping with its geographical structure. Beekeeping creates a business and means of income for landless farmers, an important agricultural movement for our people living in forest villages. The bee is an important player in the production of honey, as well as in the reproduction of nature itself. Because of his role in providing pollination in plants, he is the secret hero of agricultural production. The importance of honey's human diet has increased the use of beeswax, pollen, and wax, increasing the efficiency of plants and crops due to natural pollination, and increased the importance of beekeeping. The countries that have a say in world agriculture use the bee for the purpose of pollination. The contribution of a hive bee to agriculture has been scientifically determined that the honey produced from that hive amounted to 30 to 40 times more than its value. Advanced countries pay beekeepers for growth in plant production and natural pollination based on good agricultural practices. In these countries, nearly half of the beekeeper's income comes from pollination rent. Turkey has a great potential for beekeeping with its natural conditions, appropriate climate and rich plant presence. But as far as we're concerned about beekeeping, we can't say that we're actually using our potential presence. About 4.9 million hives and 81,000 tons of honey are produced in our country. The least honey per hive in the world is in our country. In other countries, 50 kilograms of honey per hive has been taken, while in our country, it is very thoughtful that the figure is around 17 kilograms. Turkey is ranked third in the production of honey in China, Argentina, Mexico, and second in the number of 4.9 million hives, and third in the amount of bee pollen. Anatolian geography has 20 per cent of the world's bee race, 75 per cent of honey plants, while it does not deserve its place in the world's ranking for production per hive. It is observed in Turkey that honey production per hive has declined year-on-year. The absence of shell casings in standard sizes, the lack of adequate and regular combat with bee diseases, the difficulties in the supply of the main bee and the long use of the main bees, can be listed among the causes of low efficiency. The main reason for this decline, particularly in Eastern and Southeast Anatolia, is that beekeepers fail to reach the plateaus for safety reasons. Therefore, there are an excessive number of bee colonies in the narrow space, and the hive yield is falling. Due to the closure of the Bitlis Beekeeping and Research Institute, which has served as regional beekeepers for years, the lack of technical knowledge support is another reason for low efficiency. Although beekeeping has been done in many parts of our country, the lack of beekeeping and research centers has led beekeeping and agriculture to uncertainty. As a result, the deaths of the bee in recent years have made it necessary for the immediate solution to this problem. In our country, it would be wise to develop beekeeping and determine measures that must be taken by the Turkish Grand National Assembly to investigate the problems of our honey producers. [[Bitlis]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] 6) Halil Aksoy [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 13) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mwah.]] [[Van]] [[Mersin]] [[Şanlıurfa]] [[Van]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 98th of the Constitution, 104th and 105th of the Interior Charter, in order to investigate the problems of agriculture and animalism that constitute the livelihood of the majority of the people living in Van Province and around it. In accordance with the clauses, we would like to submit a parliamentary investigation. [[Van]] [[Lug]] [[Şırnak]] [[Mwah.]] [[Adana]] [[Pain]] 7) Ayla Akat Ata [[Batman]] [[Bingöl]] [[Bitlis]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Diyarbakır]] [[Hakkari]] [[Hakkari]] 15) The Leader of the Secret [[İstanbul]] [[İstanbul]] [[Kars]] [[Mardin]] [[Mersin]] [[Van]] [[Şanlıurfa]] The province of Van has a total of 2,100,300 hectares. It consists of 361.781 hectares (18.97) of processed land, 1.359.072 hectares (71.27%) of meadows and mera, 26.294 hectares (1.38%) of forest and hectares, 159.753 hectares (8.38%). The province of Van will be seen as a natural animalry centre, given that 70% of the area is made up of meadows and mera areas, with different altitudes (1700-2700) and grasslands. Because 60% of the population of the province lives in villages, they live directly in agriculture and livestock, 20% are related to the village or because they deal with agriculture in the city; 80% of the city's average population live on agriculture and livestock. By the 1980s, the existence of the Van province was around 4-5 million sheep. Turkey alone met 17% of its living animal needs in the province of Van. It has the potential of the IMF and the World Bank to "save tar from peasants to multinational corporations" by banning and mera, evacuation of villages, "opening out," and freeing imports uncontrollably from the ports of Mersin and Black Sea, as a result of the IMF and World Bank's "s" policies. Turkey's exports of small animals, which weighed 70,000 tonnes and $141m 300,000, dropped to 14 tonnes and $22,000 in the 2000s, in 1985, including Eastern and Southeast regions. However, the Middle East, the world's largest small animal demand-making region, meets almost all of its needs from Australia and New Zealand. If necessary measures are taken for the development of animalism, the needs of this region will largely be met through our country. The lack of industrial institutions where animal products are evaluated in the region, blocking and bans against border trade have caused agriculture and animalism in the region to lose importance. The region has an advantage over the diversity and fluorescence of the world. The honey acquired here is one of the world's finest in both flavor properties and quality. However, there is no serious government support and policy for the beekeeping of the region's people. Although the region is the gene center of the walnut, like beekeeping, it has not seen enough support and has been left aside. Bait plants agriculture is vital to the region. Because the conditions for grain agriculture are not appropriate, and the yield of the existing traditional species is very low. The clover must be encouraged in the corn region for shelter and similitudes. Fruitwork, food plants, and grain production should also be investigated and identified by plants with local upbringings. It is clear that the province of Van and its environment will bring much to the region and the country's economy in terms of agriculture and animalism in the face of serious assessment of its natural potential. Given that the world's consumer preference also leads to natural - feeding mutton and natural - environment agricultural products, the need for this problem to be put on the table unscheduled for Van and his environment and to develop the needed solutions. Congressmans, you have been briefed. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0046par0472	Mr. President, if only one of these motions had been here! This is a violation of the House, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0045par0473	Thank you. Congressmans, Diyarbakır 6. It is dated 21/12/2011 by the High Criminal Court and is dated 2010-124 by Diyarbakır 5. Diyarbakır MP Leyla Zana is on trial in accordance with the second joke of Article 83 of the Constitution, dated 17/11/2011 and dated 2011-487. It's for your information. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since my proposal for amendments to Turkish Penal Code 2/14 and the Murakabe of Drugs shall not be taken into consideration within the commission in accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, I demand that it be taken directly into consideration in 45 days. Yours truly. 02.01.2011 As the bidder, Mr. Reşat MP. Right. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Right.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0047par0490	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a commitment that the House should be taken on the agenda under Article 37 of the Interior Charter, upon the lack of commissions of our proposal for amendments to the Turkish Penal Code and the Murakabe of Drugs. I salute the High Council. As in the world, in the coming years in our country, the problem of substance abuse and use will rise in front of mankind. The use of substances, cigarettes, alcohol, drugs. Recent studies show that Asia Minor, especially large cities, is becoming a major problem that extends to its villages. The rate of alcohol and drug use in Turkey and the world is increasing rapidly. The age of start-up is creepyly, increasingly falling, up to elementary school children. Fighting drugs that destroy people's physical, spiritual, and social lives, which dehumanize people, should be between all of our original duties. Protecting our people from this infectious disease should be well-protected by the public health approach, but since we can't protect them, it is our duty to take every precaution and treat them for those who have encountered them. These people can heal, they can get rid of matter. Members of parliament, however, in recent research conducted in the United States, 75 per cent of automobile accidents, 50 per cent of fighting deaths, 25 per cent of suicides should not be forgotten. In research, substance abuse is not a cause, it's a consequence. The reasons for this are the problems that your parents in the family are having with children in the first place. If healthy relationships are not established with children, the child can be pushed into the street and faced with all sorts of bad habits. Children who use drugs appear to be taking paint thinners, Bally, marijuana, cocaine, even heroin. In research, I'm telling you for Istanbul that the use of matter has been in several districts before, but today it has reached every district, every neighborhood, every street, even the garden of every school. Congressmans, the age of use in the past years has been twelve years old, and this age is down to them today. Even that should be seen in public by everyone, how much their families have caused them to suffer. Therefore, the process of investigating, prosecution and trial of drug crimes is also crucial. Specialized law enforcement staff, depending on this, it is absolutely necessary to establish judges, prosecutors, even residency courts. With the law proposal we've prepared, the fight against substance abuse will be more effective, a great deal of deterrent power. Congressmans, I'd like to give you a little example. A 28-year-old medical student came to İstanbul to study medical school and died from the use of more drugs than he was accustomed to. In fact, he lined up at the point of his transfer to AMATEM, and died before he could be admitted to AMATEM. Therefore, it may be anyone who is addicted to substance, but it is important to remember that young people are the first target, especially the twelve to twenty-year-old group. There are 21 treatment centres across the country. The number of beds is insufficient. In 2010, about 8 percent of the patients who were admitted to AMATEM in 2009 were using heroin, and the number increased to 50 percent in 2010. It's a very bad situation. Rehab centres are also required for those who are treated. Our proposal for the law was taken entirely from the work of the research commission on substance abuse established in the 23rd term. The goal is to protect our young people from alcohol, cigarettes, drugs. And those commission decisions that we've made in this direction must be implemented. Look, from time to time, research commissions are being set up in our Parliament. The research commissions are very good, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0048par0498	Thank you, Mr. Right. Mr. Hasan Hussein Türkoğlu, MP of Osmaniye asking for a word on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Turkoglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0049par0503	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from Mr. Reshad Right, the Turkish MP of the Turkish nation, to give an opinion on the Turkish Penal Code and the Proposal for the Amendment to the Murakabesi Law of Drugs, which was presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I salute your high council. Article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey shall take measures to protect young people from alcoholism, drugs, guilt, gambling, and other bad habits. The result of this judgment is the guarantee of the future that young generations are brought up to be healthy, qualified, and for national goals. Today, however, one of the major problems facing young generations - even children - is drugs. Compared to the early years of the Republic, rural/state populations, which are nearly reversed, are now over 70 per cent of the urban population, growing cities are an easy market for people who sell drugs. This market is considered to be an important part of the world's total trade volume, and the financial table is claimed to be over $500 billion. A cake of this magnitude fuels the appetite of many illegal minds. Black money from the drug trade can be used to destabilise markets as well as to finance terrorism against terrorist communities like us. Turkey being on one of the drug traffic routes as a geographical location is an important factor. Most of the time, our country, which is a bridge, has become a place where drugs have been seized and marketed over time. From the 2000s to 2010, drug capture statistics have been examined, especially with a regular increase in cannabis and heroin-related arrests. This gives us an idea of how successful our police forces are, but it also gives us the idea that Turkey's market tends to expand in terms of drugs. The fight against drugs is an instrument of the fight against terrorism, but it must first be fought for a healthy and qualified society and generations. In this framework, policies that increase society's sensitivity should be produced; drug production, transport and marketing gangs should be broken; any widespread and knit educational institutions to start with should be active in the fight; media should be obliged to publish in dealing with drugs and other harmful habits; treatment centers should be increased in number and capacity for those with drug habits, and ultimately, the very effective punishment system in dealing with drugs is crucial. The proposal of Mr. Reshat Hakmak, the member of the Tokat MP we discussed, provides more detailed, accurate, and positive contributions to the current anti-drug regime. The proposal, on the one hand, incorporates substances that are used in the manufacture of drugs but are not included in the legislation, on the other hand, includes deterrent measures for planting and using drugs to produce drugs. He also aims to prevent drug-related cases from being merged into other cases and increase the motivation of the court for this crime alone. I believe Mr. Reshat Right is a good and useful proposal for the law. My wish is that the same belief be shared by the High Council. With these feelings, I salute the Turkish nation's MPs.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0050par0512	Thank you, Mr. Turkoglu. Members of the law, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Congressmans, we're moving on to the part of the agenda with oral questions. As I've just stated in the presentations, I'm reading the oral questions Mr. Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, that Mr. Mehmet Eker would like to answer together: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, the following questions should be answered verbally by the Minister of Transport, Mr. Buli Yıldırım. 14.7.2011 Antrepo and logistical facility are expected to be established at the Crazy Dodge station, which is the entrance to the Kars Tbilisi Railroad. With these facilities being built at the Cambaz station, immigration will cease in the district, unemployment will end, and trade volume will expand. 1- With the construction of antrepo and logistical facilities at the Ardahan Nuts County Cambaz station, unemployment will be over because of the development of trade volumes in our district and in our province, migration will cease and our people living in our province will find the values they deserve. Will there be an antrepo and logistical facility for this, the entrance of the Kars Tbilisi Railroad, to the Crazy Dodge station? 10.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light With policies to privatise sugar factories that were accelerated in our country during AKP rulings, our sugar beets producers' problems have grown increasingly, and our producers today are almost at the point of quitting their production of sugar beets. Regarding your ministry's policies to support the production of sugar beets: 1. In your ministry, how have sugar beets crop fields and production amounts changed over the years? 2. How has the total sugar production of sugar beets from 2002-2011 changed in our country? 3. What measures have been taken or taken by your ministry to support our sugar beets producers? 4. What are your ministry's 2011 and 2012 programs and medium-term goals for solving the problems of our sugar beets producers? 30.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, the rise in the price of red meat in our country has not been halted due to the wrong policies imposed by your ministry, which aim to end our country's animalism. With each passing day, the presence of animals in our country is dwindling, and meat prices are rising in parallel with the extreme increase in bait prices. On the subject of this matter, 1. How do animal support premiums still apply by your Ministry vary according to the region? 2. How did the number of small and large animals change in 2002 and 2011? 3. In the same years, what was the average price of unit bait and red meat? 4. What are your ministry's programs for the development of animalism in 2011 and 2012, under control of the increase in bait prices? 10.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light As it is known, this year, as every year, live animals and meat prices have risen and continue to rise. In particular, about this matter that concerns all our citizens, especially our citizens, who are considering to sacrifice in the name of their religious heritage; 1. What part of years of wrong policies, living animals and meat prices, which your ministry has used to end Turkish agriculture and animalism, has been involved in rising? 2. Is there a scientific study done or supported by your Ministry on this matter? 3. In your ministry, what was the change in the number of small and large animals in our country and the amount of living animals and meat entering our country by illegal means? 4. What measures are being taken by your Ministry, even though it is late to revive Turkish agriculture and animalism? The chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 10.10.2011 1. The drying plant belonging to the land crop office in Kozan district of Adana Province is now in ruins. Why hasn't the plant started working even though the corn harvest has begun in our county? 2. Do you intend to run the facility as a ministry? 3. Or are you thinking of renting out this drying plant? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 10.10.2011 1. Although the cotton season has begun in the Adana Çukurova region, the prices have not been announced? 2. When will you announce the prices as a minister? Will the prices to be announced please the manufacturer? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions are 96 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In accordance with the clause, I would like to request that it be delivered to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism and answered verbally by the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 12.10.2011 1) Where are the plans for the track, which was promised to be held in Eskişehir, Mahmudiye district? 2) Do you still think that Mahmudiye will have a track track and that horse races will be carried out there? 3) If you have given up such a thought, what are their motives? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right Question: In our country, in recent years, the disease of the animals has been constantly increasing. How many animals have been infected and treated throughout Turkey and the province of Tokat? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right Question: In recent years, animal markets have been closed due to various diseases. How many animal markets have been closed for how many days in the past five years as part of Turkey's cities? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Question: In recent years, agriculture and livestock have had great difficulties. The amount of funding left from the budget in the last five years has dropped every year. According to budget size, in the last five years, what percentage of agriculture and livestock have been provided, and do you intend to increase it? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I demand that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. In Balıkesir, the henhouse feeders are having trouble finding their state-sponsored henhouses as fugitives. Growers benefiting from the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animal Development Fund have increased the number of henhouses. The fact that these henhouses have no construction licenses and the state has supported non-building chicken coops is a problem for growers. 1- In the face of this problem with the feeders, what work does your ministry do as a solution? 2-In what phase are you conducting to reduce the VAT rate of 2-winged products to 1%, as in red meat? 3-Do you have a study for state support per kilogram for members of the chicken grower's union, as is the case with cattle breeders and dairy producers? 13.10.2011 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With all due respect, I would like to ask the following questions to be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Prof. Dr. Scholar Light In connection with the allegations that many of our producers throughout our country have been forced to enter prison on the grounds that they failed to fulfill their commitments to the Agriculture Credit Cooperates (TKK) due to the wrong agriculture and animalism policies imposed by your ministry; 1. What are the numbers and distributions of our farmers who have been sentenced to prison for failing to pay their debts to the T.K.K.? 2. How many of our farmers have gone to prison in the last three years because they couldn't pay off their debts on time and violated their commitment? 3. What is the impact of the wrong agriculture and animalism policies imposed by your ministry on our farmers going to prison? 4. Do you have any work to restructure our farmers' debt to the T.K.K.? 5. If so, what is the content and application plan of the study? Or can such a study prevent the victims of our farmers? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following question will be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Dr. Reşat Right The question is, how much fish have we had in our country in the last three years? How many kilograms of fish are consumed per person? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 19.10.2011 Dr. Mehmet ŞEKER As a result of the AKP's wrong agricultural policies, our country, which is a cotton exporter, has become one of the world's most important cotton importers. The low premiums for support with cotton purchase prices announced for 2011 have left cotton in my electoral district of Gaziantep as well as in the country. 1) Between 2003 and 2011, how many hectares of cotton planting in Turkey, across and across Gaziantep? 2) Between 2003 and 2011, how many tons of cotton production in Turkey and Gaziantep over the years? 3) In 2011, due to the price of cotton purchases that were far below costs, how much cotton remained in the field during harvest time, across the country and in the Gaziantep area? 4) What are the studies planned to reduce the cost of cotton production and prevent the cotton worker from harming it? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism under the Constitution and Parliamentary Civil Charter. Before every nut season in Italy, Georgia, Azerbaijan, were TMO's demands for the market by abandoning its free market price as a result of the rise of low recolte and price in the new nut season, using it as an excuse to have the US almonds and to make sure that the price of nuts is low on the free market? 2) This season was the year 2004 of the frost disaster of nuts, even below its last ten-year average. Do you know that in Giresun County, there have been more loss of products than our other nut growers' provinces? Do you think the Giresunlu manufacturer, who was then not covered, is facing a new disaster this season? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Yours truly. Since Istanbul, Çatkca, Albanian village, the villages of Büçükçekmece and some neighborhoods are largely agricultural, our citizens in this area are mainly planting wheat. However, not all land in this area is registered. Although wheat agriculture has been done in large areas, the deed and other documents are not available for support premiums. Because agricultural support is given not according to production but by land, our citizens are unable to benefit from the premiums. A) Do you have studies in wheat supplement premium payments on products delivered to TMO and factories? B) Are you going to make sure that the documented wheat sold to TMOs and factories will be significant in transition to the registered economy, and that this application will be more useful in the support system, considering that our producers who actually produce it will benefit from the benefits? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Yours truly. Since Istanbul, Çatkca, Albanian village, the villages of Büçükçekmece and some neighborhoods are largely agricultural, our citizens in this area are mainly planting wheat. However, not all land in this area is registered. Although wheat agriculture has been done in large areas, the deed and other documents for support premiums are not available. Because agricultural support is given not according to production but according to the land, our citizens who produce are unable to benefit from the premiums. So, A. Do you have any work in the wheat supplement premium payments on the product delivered to TMOs and factories? b. Will you allow our producers to benefit from the benefits of our real manufacturers, considering that the documented wheat that is sold to TMOs and factories will be a significant contribution to transition to the registered economy? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 10.10.2011 1- What kind of investments were made in Adana province by your Ministry from 2002-2012? What's the total amount of funding for investments? 2- What is the location of agricultural support in Adana province in the ranking of agricultural support used by your Ministry across Turkey? How much is Adana's agricultural support compared to the province of Diyarbakır? 3- Are there projects in our county that have not been adopted and implemented by your ministry? What are the reasons why I wasn't brought to life? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 17.10.2011 Turkey is constantly giving to farmers of other countries. It is now seen that even eggs and milk are imported in Turkey, where national agriculture is increasingly destroyed. 1- Importing grain, fat seeds, oil and fruits, importing living animals, meat and meat products, fish and seafood in agricultural products will also affect the Turkish farmer very badly. If import continues like this, unemployment and internal migration will accelerate. Do you plan to raise taxes on farms and animal products imported to prevent that from happening? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions will be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Yours truly. Milk producers in Çanakkale say they will have to cut or sell their animals if it is not taken, due to the low cost of 74 cents on a liter of milk with rising bait prices. 1) Will measures be taken to prevent the increase in bait prices, which range from $38 to $45 a sack, and to be pulled down? 2) The manufacturers, who produce an average of 650 tonnes of milk daily, think black and black because their animals are to be slaughtered and sold. Is there going to be a countermeasure to save the manufacturers from this trouble? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan. 1-In previous administrations, when needed, potato producers were given incentives to relieve their distress, for nine years during your administration, no incentives were given to potato manufacturers. What are the reasons? 2) Potato manufacturers paid the entire electricity debt in one bill at harvesttime before TEDAS was privatized. Now the farmer pays the electric price every month. Do you intend to instruct the relevant ministries to conduct a joint study on resolving the farmer's victimhood and returning to previous practice? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions will be answered verbally by Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting Mehdi Eker. 01:11.2011 In agricultural production, the prices of raw materials such as diesel, fertilizer, seed, medicine, and bait have increased rapidly. Turkey, which is dependent on the outside most of the inputs, is unable to control input prices, so our agricultural production cannot compete with the world. Since 2002, entry prices have increased by about 3 times the price of diesel and bait, while fertilizer prices have increased by about 25 percent. The unwinnable manufacturer is away from producing. Because of market pressure, it has to deal with the loss of the producer product, which is unable to reflect the cost increase to prices, and it has to try to live on the incentive it receives from the state. It's the 21st of the Agricultural Law. Despite its substance, support for fertilizer, diesel and bait plants since 2008 has not been increased even as much as inflation. 1) Is it planned to increase farmers' incentives to 1 per cent, as stated in the law? 2) As in shipping and air transport, is it planned not to receive VAT and OTV from the gas used in agriculture? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following questions will be answered verbally by Mr. Food, Agriculture and Petting Minister Mehmet Mehdi Eker. On 8 October 2011, the rain that started at Aydın/Söke and fell on the m2 by 220kg and the machine harvested cotton produced a total of about 35% loss due to the quality of 20% due to the spill on the floor, and a total of about 15% in recolte. The cost of the cotton manufacturer in 2011 was 1.8 liras per kilo, but the cost of selling at $1.7 lira is significant damage, while due to the disaster, the loss of 35% of the cotton manufacturer's debt from the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan has become unpayable. 1-Is it possible for the producer to recover from the disaster caused by Söke and other districts of Aydın to pay interest on their debt to the Agriculture Bank and Agriculture Loan Cooperate for the next four years, especially because of the disaster that occurred in Söke and other districts? Is our ministry going to ensure immediate measures due to the time of repayment on this issue? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 17.10.2011 1. Are farmlands being used in Adana? 2. Are the farmlands in Adana sacrificed for construction and Rant accounts? 3. What kind of work do you have on the efficient operation of your ministry's farmland in Adana? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 1.11.2011 Beekeepers have suffered major damage from bears in many cities in Turkey, primarily Erzurum. The government's attempt to protect the bears is a fine example and an act that should be done, but the financial damage done by our countrymen, who provide for their livelihood by beekeeping, must be compensated. 1- The losses of the manufacturers who lost their bees and hives must be paid by the attack of the bear when they were beekeepers in Erzurum, Ardahan, Kars, and Iğdir. Are you going to do a study to delay the loans used by the tradesman? 2- Is there going to be a replacement for the broken hives and lost bees of manufacturers who want to provide child support through beekeeping? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 31.10.2011 In Ardahan Posof district, an apple is grown with red inside and outside. 46 kinds of apples grow across the Posof. In Posof, all kinds of fruits and vegetables grow except the citrus. Posof's climate and soil are very likely to grow fruits and vegetables. Fruitism needs to be popularized. 1- All kinds of fruits and vegetables are grown in Ardahan Posof district except for the narcissist. Will you have a study to promote fruitism in Posof County? 2- In and out of Ardahan Posof County, the red apple is growing, and this apple is good for diabetes, do you have a study to produce more of this apple? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Yours truly. Heromarash is among our provinces, which have a very important potential for animalism as well as industrialization. 1. Do you intend to take the heromarash as part of the Decision on Supporting Milk Cowing and the Decision on Supporting the Horsemen and the Compounded Races Investments? Do you have any work to do? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehdi Eker. Yours truly. In the southeastern part of Kahramanmarash, the district of Pazarcık enters GAP, and in the northeast is Elbistan, Nurhak, Ekinözü, Çağancerit districts. 1. Do you intend to apply 30 per cent to 40 per cent of livestock grants applied to the GAP and DAP provinces to our Kahramanmarash province as well? Do you have any work to do? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Yours truly. There are many problems in the province of Kastamonu in economic and social areas. Most of the population is migrating. According to population rates, Kastamonu is one of the cities where the largest migration to Istanbul is seen. The most important reason for this migration is that jobs become increasingly narrow and resources cannot be transferred to production. For the prevention of migration and the development of livelihoods; 1- Do you think agriculture and livestock support loans are enough? Do you have any new support projects for agriculture and livestock? 2-Agricultural products are largely affected by the lack of pricing control in raw materials. Is there a study you've started on price control? 3- Milk powder imports have a huge impact on milk production, which must be edited on imports. Will there be restrictions on import products affecting domestic production? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism Mehmet Mehdi Eker. Yours truly. The world continues to seek and use alternative and renewable energy sources while oil reserves are running out. Bioethanol production, which is used worldwide as a renewable energy source and is a sugar beets of raw material, is seen to be prominent. Sugar production also contributes to prevent external dependence in energy. In this context, the incentive for sugar beets production and production areas must be protected. Is your ministry able to determine the contribution of sugar beets production to the country's economy? Is it known that sugar raw materials are used in energy production alternatives and provide jobs for over 10 million people? If known, do you have any attempts to promote sugar production and protect production fields, provide technological support, repair the lack of technical staff, increase capacity use? 3- Will you have any attempts to support the beets maker? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Prof. Dr. Zühal Topcu According to State Officers Act 657 of public institutions and organisations, the staff they employ is obliged to employ 3% of the entire staff of the relevant institution or organisation. 1- In 2010 and 2011, what are the number of disabled employees employed by your Ministry and your Ministry/related institutions and organisations, and the number of disabled personnel that are supposed to be employed by Law 657 and the number of disabled personnel that should be employed? Under Law 2-657, is there a disability deficit in your ministry and your ministry under the obligation to employ disabled personnel? If so, how much is the lack, and have the demands for the removal of this deficiency been forwarded to the State Staff President? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. M. Serdar Soydan The work of food engineering is vital for the production, supply, control and control of food that is essential to our people's ability to live a healthy life. 1- Do you think that the food engineers and the food engineers that you have employed so few jobs in the current structure of the Ministry are fully providing our citizens with food safety from production to consumption at every stage, and if you don't think about what you're going to do about it? 2- Do you have a study of employment in your Ministry of Food Engineers, such as agricultural engineers and veterinary physicians who are employed in the field and in the barn? 3- Do you intend to increase the number of food engineers within your Ministry to strengthen and promote food control services? To the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. In Kars County, the rising price of hay this winter has been a problem finding hay and dried grass for cattle-related villagers. The return of as many as 4,000 animals, which cannot be sold because of imported meat, has increased this need. In Kars, hay weighs 1 lira per kilo. The environment from the provinces did not meet the need, and the peasant went all the way to Sivas, Ankara. The peasant is requesting immediate assistance in this matter. 1-The people of Kars are now awaiting the government's support on this matter. What are you going to do about it? Is it expected that the transport will be eased or that Kars will be taken to the centre in a mass of dry grass-samans and sold to anyone who needs the right price? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. M. Serdar Soydan In the district of Çanakkale Biga in October 2011 and November, a number of businesses found that the disease has seriously affected animal production in the region. Our producers have suffered severe economic losses due to mandatory quarantines in the enterprises where there has been a smack disease. In this direction, 1- What do you intend to do about paying the damages of the damaged manufacturers because of the spate in the district of Çanakkale Biga? 2- Do you think that the disease should be taken into reparations in order to prevent the infection from infecting other businesses and to ensure that the disease is more disciplined? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I respectfully ask that the following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. 13.12.2011 1. What is the total amount of support and support for agriculture between 2002 and 2012? 2. Do you agree that the increase in animal presence and animal production, explained by TİK, has not contributed to the progress of the country's animalism, that the rise in meat prices in 2011 is not speculative, that the price increase depends on reduction in meat supply? 3. What's the distribution of the amount you said was divided into animal support in 2012? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Many of the producers of the damage caused by storm-hortum and rain disaster in various parts of our country from September 15th to October, especially our cotton producers in all the districts of Aydın. To be a little supportive of our desperate manufacturers, 1-) 2011/21 no. 7th notice of implementing the Council of Ministers' decision on the support of paying the difference according to the Turkish agricultural basin production and support model. Could it not be that producers who produce as an agricultural plant, which is excluded from support in the context of C, could not be removed from exception and benefit from the benefits of disaster? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Yours truly. The jockeys in our country think that their problems are now reaching the level of success in their sport. The developments in the Jockey Accident and Help Ark, one of the most important institutions in the social and economic rights of the jockeys, have sparked a major controversy among the jockeys. According to this, an estimated $270 million in savings has been transferred into your ministry. In this context: 1. Why was the funds deposited in the Jockey Accident and Help Ark transferred into the Ministry? 2. How much of the money transferred into the ministry was used, for what purpose? How much does the rest of the money cost? What will this amount be used for? 3. How much money is available in the Jockey Accident and Help Ark now? Is it also possible to transfer the money into your Ministry? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr. Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting. Yours truly. Because the jockeys in our country are not considered athletes, unlike those in the world, they do not benefit from delaying their troops until they are 38 years old and low tax opportunities. In this context: 1. Why are athletes considered athletes in many countries around the world not valued in this status in our country? 2. Is your government going to do any work to ensure that the jockeys are not considered athletes and all the problems that have arisen depending on that? Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose that my following questions be answered verbally by Mr Mehmet Mehdi Eker, Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. Yours truly. In Istanbul, Çaktinca, Yalıköy, 18 of the cattle who had been vaccinated against the plague died immediately after the vaccine, while some animals were sick. It is noted that 18 animals died immediately after the inoculation, resulting from the inoculation of the deaths. 1. Forkca, have you identified the cause of the animal deaths in Yalıköy? 2. If these deaths were caused by inoculations, where did they come from? 3. When will the harm and harm of our citizens, whose animals have died in Çatkca-Yaliköy due to the animal deaths caused by the vaccine, be met? Thank you. Mr. Secretary, to answer the questions, sir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, how long do I have? Let's say half an hour. Mr. President, members of the High Assembly, I salute you all. The total, of course, was an hour, Mr. President said half an hour. Hopefully, in the meantime, I'll try to answer the questions. Regarding Mr. Ensar Öğümün's question about the establishment of an antrepo and logistics facility on the Kars-Tiflis railway road to the Kars-Tiflis railway: Since there is no sufficient production and investment in the area, there is no project for the construction of Kars-Tiflis railway construction of the Krazı district's Cambaz Station to build an antrepo and logistics facility, but the issue will be reconsidered if there is a production and logistical facility in the future. Mr. Light (6/214) is the No. 6/585 of Mr. Çelebi (6/585). Lu, questions about sugar beets, sugar beets producers' problems and support of production: During the 2003-2010 period, sugar beets production was not reduced, except during climate-related supply shortages, but rather increased. During 2003-2010, sugar beet production increased by 42 per cent, while 17.9 million tonnes were produced in 2010. In the sugar beets, the crop area has not changed significantly in recent years, but by increasing efficiency, beet producers have increased their income by producing their beets in less October. According to TÜİK data, it gained 4,003 kilograms per decarat in 2003, while in 2010 it gained 5,459 kilograms per decarnated by a 36 per cent efficiency increase. In our country, sugar beets production is provided by the Ministry, especially with chemical fertilizer support for production, diesel support and soil analysis support by our Ministry. Support is paid by our ministry of 14.5 euros per pound of chemical fertilizer, $6.00 diesel, and $2.5 in soil analysis support. During the coming period, it has been mandatory to be at least 2 per cent and at least 3 per cent as of 2014, as of 1/1/2013, due to increased the amount of bioethanol that will join gas in the coming years, especially in studies on energy agriculture, and in accordance with the decision taken by the EPDK (EPDK). Therefore, it is possible to say that in the following process, the use of corn, wheat, and sugar beets is particularly high in bioethanol efficiency, and that there will be increased use here, or rather wait. Of Mr. Light (6/217) and (6/226), of Mr. Right (6/252), of Mr. Sarıbaş (6/431), of Mr. Sesam (6/452), of Mr. Çelebi (6/584), of Mr. Halaman (6/695). These, of course, all of these proposals have common interests. That's why I'm going to answer them together, Mr. President. The agricultural sector is supported in Turkey, as it is in all parts of the world, due to its nature conditions in Turkey. We adopted a support policy based on a strategic account, based on a strategic study, especially on implementing efficiency, health, rural development practices. Earlier, in 2000, all the support given to all farmers in Turkey was $344m, $590 million in 2001; the total support given to our farmer in 2002 was $1 billion,868 million; the amount reached 6 billion 962 million in 2011. So far, the amount of agricultural support we paid the farmer in cash during the AK PARTY administrations is 43 billion 114 million euros. The amount of agricultural support that will be paid to our producers within a year in 2012 is around $7 billion and $200 million in cash. Agricultural inputs were brought in during our governments, and some of the cost of production, especially in this way, was paid in this way. In this context, for the first time in 2003, our manufacturers began to receive diesel support, and in 2005, chemical fertilizer support was given directly to farmers. In addition, the use of certified seeds and saplings began to be supported for the first time in 2005; non-interested loans and grant support for watering started for the first time in 2006, 2007; 50 percent of the equipment used by our farmer was supported as a grant for the first time since 2007. Earlier, interest rates were 59 per cent in agricultural loans, while agricultural loans were up to 68-69 per cent, while livestock and irrigation dropped to zero and other agricultural activities to 5 per cent. The amount of agricultural loans used in 2002 was $529m, while the amount of agricultural loans used in 2011 reached 22 billion 800m euros. In 2002, the return rate was only 38 per cent but 71 per cent in agricultural loan co-ops, while the return rate of loans used to farmers by the Agriculture Bank in 2011 reached 99.1 per cent, while the agricultural loan cooperatives reached 98 per cent. With this approach and understanding in Turkey, the agricultural illegitimate domestic product rose from 23 billion dollars in 2002 to 62 billion dollars in 2010, and Turkey rose to the first ranking in Europe -- in terms of agricultural products -- in terms of size -- to the seventh in the world in the world in the world rankings, in terms of external domestic product rankings. This development in the agricultural sector certainly has a significant share in the development of livestock. The share of animal support has previously been up to 4 per cent, while it was up to 26 per cent in 2011. In the same way, the number of support pencils in livestock was only 4 in 2002, while 27 were written today. Animal support increased more than 20 stories in 2011, with a record increase compared to 2002. In 2002, for example -- in 2011, 1 billion 726 million liras -- have been paid only $83 million in animal support. A total of 6.2 billion Turkish liras were used from the start of the application to the end of 2011, as part of the non-interest loan application for animalism, and this is free of interest. In an effort to develop animalism in Eastern Anatolia and Southeast Anatolia, grant support has been launched for animal enterprises in these regions, in which a total of 185 projects have been implemented in the GAP and DAP provinces by the end of December 2011, and a total of 21,135 major animals have been supported and given 77,700,000 euro grants in support. Regarding animal numbers, the first application by the State Statistical Institute in Turkey is in 1984. Thus, when the first census of 1984 was held, Turkey's cattle assets amounted to 12 million and 400. According to 2010 figures, there are 11.5 million cattle in our country. Between 2002-2010, the number of cattle increased by around 1.5 million head. Here's the particular issue: The increase in quality is more important than the increase in numerical presence in livestock, because the increase in the proportion of culture in particular is an increase that should be considered here. In 2002, the total number of cattle had only 1,89,000 cultures, while in 2010, there were 4 million,200, that is, more than two times the number of cultures. Depending on this, milk production reached 13.5 million tonnes in Turkey in 2002, with 8.4 million tonnes in 2010. During 2002-2010, milk production increased by 62 per cent, red meat production by 86 per cent, average milk efficiency per animal by 67 per cent, average meat efficiency by 18 per animal. In addition, the number of businesses with more than 50 large animals in Turkey increased from 4,300 in 2002 to about 24,000 in 2011. This is an important indicator that a particular business in Turkey is now being performed on professional farming and livestock. In 2010, the number of small animals, which were prone to decline by 2007-2009, increased by 9.3 per cent from the previous year to 29.4 million, mainly maternal and female small animals. In the coming period, it will increase its share in animalry, especially in animal support and agricultural support. The subsidies will continue to apply subsidized loans in livestock, more support for studry, increased the proportion of small animal meats in red meat production, regionally supported animal investments such as the GAP and DAP. The School Milk Project will be implemented, and regional animalism projects in the 61st Government Action Plan will be developed. In particular the price of meat, milk and feed has been made in Turkey on occasion at the necessary points in order to regulate markets, and on April 26, 2010, the average price of calf carkas, which is 16.3 euros, has dropped to 14.62 TL, as of 2/1/2012. After the tax reduction, the price of the calf's carcas went down, and the decline rate was 9.39 per cent. The VAT rate, which is 8% in total meat, has been reduced to 1%. There have been significant distances in the production of bait plants and reforming efforts to meet the crude need of animalism, and between 2002 and 2011, a total of 4.1 million per cent reform work has been conducted, providing support and feeding plants have been increased by 83 per cent over the past eight years. In 2002, production of 1.2 million hectares, production of 25 million tonnes, production of 2.2 million hectares increased to 37 million tonnes in 2010. For the first time in 2011 to increase the production of meat, additional support was brought to calfs born of cross-breeding in carnivorous races. An additional 150 lira support application per calf has been implemented. Market regulatory mechanisms will be created to eliminate the negative effects of price fluctuations in meat and milk, and to ensure stability in farmer's revenues with product supplies. In this case, the drafting of the law for the Meat and Fish Foundation to be transformed into an institution that regulates meat and milk markets. Following the completion of these studies, the drafts of the relevant legislation will be transformed into a bill and transferred to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Our ministry supports soybeans, canola, veal corn, aspirin, wheat, barley, rye, triticale and oatmeal to reduce the cost of feeding. In addition, the import of milk powder imported under milk powder has been halted and the export of 10,000 tonnes of milk powder has prevented raw milk prices from going further than the current prices, rather than the current prices. In 2009-2010, four cents/litres were supported by 10 cents/litres in small milk, and in the first quarter of 2011, support for cattle milk increased to 8 cents/litres, while support for small head milk increased to 15 cents/litres, 6 cents/litres for the second and third quarter of 2011, and 15 cents/litres for the small milk. It was supported by recording 5 million tonnes of milk in 2009, which increased to 6.1 million tonnes in 2010. Between 2010-2011 and the first nine months, a total payment of $448m in raw milk was paid. So in nine months of this year, the milk manufacturer was paid $448 million, and the price for milk they produced was $448 million. The National Milk Council was also established in 2009 in order to strategize the sector, produce milk and dairy products, work in activities aimed at the development of consumption, trade. As with shipping and air transport, there have been increasing prices of oil in the world from time to time since 2003, as well as prices in Turkey. Since 2003, gas support has been introduced to farmers who are registered in the Farmers' Registering System, depending on the amount of crops they've worked on. From 2003 to today, our farmer was paid $3 billion and $482 million in gas support, with an average of 17 per cent of the gas cost covered. In 2012, our farmers will be paid to provide diesel support, while the 2012 unit support payment has been increased by 14 per cent, on average, compared to 2011. No. 6/233), (6/413) and (6/488). Lu proposals are related to investments in Adana, and the support given to Adana Kozan, and the TMO-based drying plant in Adana province: the amount of agricultural support given to the provinces depends on agricultural potential, farmers' numbers, agricultural fields, type of crops, animals' and so on. Therefore, the total amount of support each province receives differs. As part of agricultural support, Adana was given a total of 45m euros in agricultural support in 2002, while the support given to the farmer at Adana was 186m 300,000 TL (as of late November 2011). Between 2003 and 2011, Adana was given a total of $1 billion and $344 million in agricultural support. As of 2003-2011, Adana received a total of 75.3m euros worth of diesel support and a total of $57.5m in chemical fertilizer from 2005 to 2011. In 2003-2011, the province of Adana received a total of $873.1m premium and $62.4m in animal support. Again, 37 projects have been completed in Adana, 7.1m euro grants have been provided, and 9.9m euro grants have been provided for 2,052 equipment purchase projects in 2007-2011. In addition, in 2003-2011, 26 co-op projects in Adana were earmarked for $22.4m in loans, supported by about 1,795 families. In addition, 44 investment projects are still being conducted by our Ministry on different issues in Adana province. In connection with the TMO drying plant in Kozan district, the Kozan Agency's Çukukukörü, Imamoglu and Rightkaya are also covered by businesses. There are six dryers in these workplaces. The first crop of corn in the region began in late August, and the second crop of corn began in the middle of October, and the harvest was completed. From the workplaces mentioned, only Dukkukköpru has been subjected to a total of 7,011 tonnes of corn supply, 638 tonnes in advance and 6,373 tonnes in escrow, and has been subjected to a process of drying corn with a humidity of up to 14 per cent. On the other hand, these dryers are not considered for rent. The Law on Land Protection and Land Use 5403 on the use and operation of agricultural land is protected by the Law on Land Protection and Land Use, and the criteria for illegal use of the Law have been set, and the demands for non-foreign use are considered according to the criteria specified. Mr. Halaman (6/240), Mr. Sugar (6/356) no. The Lu proposals will be answered together because they have similar issues. Regarding Mr. Sugar's questions about cotton planting and production in Turkey and Gaziantep Province: cotton production, which has an important place in Turkish agriculture, is produced by 70,000 producers. The production of cotton products is worth about 4 billion TL. By turning into textile products, this value reaches $24 billion. According to its 2010 values, Turkey is the eighth in the world's cotton production, and Australia is the third in the cotton yield, following Israel. Our country is expected to have a 20 per cent increase in cotton planting in 2011, compared to 2010. Our mass cotton production has increased by 50 percent in 2009-2011 to 2m580,000 tons of 1,725,000 tons. In recent years, significant increases have been seen in cotton yields, ranked third in the world, increasing to 350 kilograms/development in 2002, to the level of 450 kilograms/development in 2011. In 2003, 59.2,000 tonnes of wool were produced in our province of Gaziantep, although there was no decline in the production and production of cotton fields in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, according to TÜİK estimates in the province of Gaziantep, which is expected to take place in the province of Gaziantep. In 2011, some 792 million euros were paid by the manufacturers of 57,581 cotton products for the heavy cotton product of 2010, for about 1,901,000 tons of dune cotton products were paid by the Ministry as part of activities aimed at lowering costs and increasing production. On the other hand, the product produced in 2011 by certified cotton seedlings is supported by 42 cents per kilogram and 35 cents on the other product not produced with a certified seed. The amount of support for the 2011 product was announced to the public before October. According to our ministry, 6 euro/determinate chemical fertilizers are given the same amount of gas and 2.5 euros of soil analysis per square inch, with about 1 percent of the cost covered by support. So if the manufacturer has 100 lira spending at the cost, $41 is paid by us as support, 41 per cent is paid as support. With the support provided, the certified seed use rate for cotton production increased to over 85 per cent in 2011. In addition to pressurized irrigation investments in cotton, 50 per cent of the investment costs of crop processing plants are covered by our Ministry. There are 39 researchers on the subject of cotton. Under the cooperation of the private sector, 60 new types of cotton were registered between 2000-2010; it is owned by the public, 3 decent universities, and 32 private sectors. In addition, the National Cotton Council was established to bring together all the cotton-related sections to ensure exchange of views, to determine national cotton policy and to form strategies. As for Mr. Halaman's question about the explanation of the price of cotton buys: cotton products are being bought by agricultural sales companies, and our ministry is not in the field of duty. It is recommended by Mr. Kurt (6/249). The Lu motion is related to questions about the construction of an Eskişehir Mahmudiye (Eskişehir Mahmudiye): 76,000 square metres of non-square-metred moving goods have been completed and certain allocations are under way, and there are already pure Arab horse boarding facilities on this land. A total of 417 million square metres of land owned by the Treasury treasury in the plans for merriment of the boarding house's zoning grounds is already a sand track and meadow-like grass track, and two or three days of local horse racing are held within a week's programme. We're currently on the program for Antalya and the Bigeli racetracks. A track study on Eskişehir Mahmudiya will then be considered. No. 6/253, 6/254, 6/326). Regarding the lu proposals, related to the smack disease seen in Tokat province: Turkey, which was implemented from 2008 to 2010, was intended to control the quality disease in Turkey, with its effective cleaning, disinfection and programmed immunization policy as part of the Shap Disease Control Project. As part of the immunization, all of the presence of sheep has been vaccinated twice a year, including in the spring and autumn. In addition, training and information campaigns have been made with the serosurvey studies to determine the level of antibodies, including the assessment of the vaccine in the project, Turkey has gained the vaccinated Aryan status of Thracian spap disease, has been approved by the World Animal Health Organization since 2010, and 932,000 animals around it have been vaccinated in this area, and 7.415 animals have been infected in this area. In 2011 there were 44 maharajah cases in the districts of Tokat and districts. 13999 animals inoculated in the maharajah and around it have been diagnosed with diseases in 49 animals. Regarding Mr. Right's proposal for animal markets closed due to various diseases in the last five years: Of course, the county, the village, the animal health police commission decision is taken in certain ways, in certain terms, according to the type of disease, the type of animal type, if there is a disease somewhere. The cordon and quarantine, which led to the closure of animal markets, is removed, for example, 15 days after the last patient's recovery or death. In 2007, 11 animal markets in seven counties were closed in 2008 and reopened in two counties in two counties, in seven counties in 2009, 11 and 13 of our provinces in 2010, 42 markets were closed under these relevant legislation, and after the disease was extinguished. In the last three years, Mr. Right has proposed fish consumption and fish consumption per capita: in 2008, 2009 and 2010, fish consumption averaged around 535,000 tonnes per year. Fish consumption per person is approximately 7.5 kilograms per year. No. No. 6/273) of Mr. Havutça. The lu proposal, regarding the support of chicken breeders and coop licenses: the relevant law is not given by our ministry, but also by municipalities and municipal private administrations, but also by the amount of deposits for exports to be increased, the Para-Kredi Coordination Board is being published, the amount dam is being raised from 14 percent to 41 per cent, and the amount is being raised to 76.26/tone, 26/tones, not from chicken meat, and from 40 per cent to 40 per cent of the dam for exports, and from 100 per cent to 125 per cent of the U.K. A 50 per cent interest reduction investment business loan has been used in the winged sector. In addition, 50 per cent of the insurance premium is covered by the state if the manufacturer insures the winged business. Your Light (6/307) no. In relation to farmers who can't pay their debts to agricultural loan co-ops: they are granted a 90-day extension of loans that can't be paid to partners by agricultural loan co-ops, and they are asked to pay their debts by paying off their debts by giving them a 90-day notice. If they do not pay off their debts during the notice, then only then will they begin to pursue the act within the framework of their rights, unless they have a social or disaster-based alibi, such as health reasons, death, family distress, fire, and so on. It is considered to be spent on the execution of a sentence in the event that the partners who have been sentenced have applied to the co-op, paying off a certain portion of their debts and making a new commitment to the rest. As of 10/11/2011, the total number of partners sentenced to imprisonment by the relevant courts is 143. Much of our partners who have been sentenced to prison have paid their debts at this stage or have made a new commitment, so the execution of these sentences is not taking place. The number of producers who have entered prison in the last three years because of prison sentences issued by the courts because they failed to pay their debt to agricultural loan co-ops is 97. Partners who enter the prison are allowed to be released from prison by relatives or by their guarantors for paying their debts or for making a new commitment. For the debt of partners who have no means to pay the full amount of their debts, the harvest period, the time of the harvest, the period of the income and the demands are also given up to a year's notice. The shareholders are also eligible for new loans, provided they pay the minimum 75 per cent of their debts. Mr. Karaahmetoglu's (6/364) no. No demand has been made for TMO to push nuts into the market, as to the question of the damage caused by the 2004 frost disaster. A 26 per cent increase in the production of nuts in 2011 is expected from the previous period, and the cause of the quota decline is the meteorological conditions, which result from pollination and fruit formation, as well as the effects of seasonal conditions. Mr. Aslanoglu's (6/367) and (6/700) are no. 6/392). Lu proposals related to questions about the wheat-supporting premium payment system: The requirement for the sale of products covered by the difference is to be made during the production season. In accordance with the relevant notice of the April 7th edition of the Official Gazette, where the application to support the difference of the product was carried out in 2011, the stock market infrastructure, which includes the deadline for the production season and the deadline for the final application, is required in the current districts and districts, as well as in other districts, if the municipal/ilche commissions are required. TMO, on the other hand, is part of the support of paying the difference in products delivered to factories. As for the animal deaths in Çakca Yalıköy... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Secretary, I'm extending your deadline, and I'm almost done with the questions. Here you go, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The cause of the deaths after immunization in Yalıköy district of Çatınca district has been identified by experts as anaphylactic shock due to inoculation. Due to animal deaths caused by vaccination, compensation will be paid to the owner as soon as possible. They've already been told that. The motions of Mr. ÖğütEST (6/425), (6/506) and (6/509): Imported grain, fat seeds, whether to increase taxes in living animal and animal products is not in our ministry's field of duty and authority, the tax regulations of such products are being made by the Ministry of Economics. In regard to the damage done by the bear's attack on Erzurum, Ardahan, Kars and Iğdır, and the destruction of the manufacturers who lost their hives, the wild animal attack can be assessed under the Law on Help to Farmers Who Were Damaged by Disasters, of course 2090. Under Law 2090, there is no procedure for delaying the loan debts of farmers and/or tradesmen. We've also received an opinion from the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs on the matter. The damage is not affordable by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, due to the lack of provisions in the meri legislation concerning the harm done to people and their goods. Regarding the work done in the Ardahan Posof district to promote fruitism and increase apple production: According to TÜİK data in 2010, the fruit area in Ardahan province is 692. Within the fruit area, 530 tonnes of apples were produced in 470 per square inch. All apple production has been carried out in Posof district, with our ministry certified and standard sapling and practice of supporting garden facilities, organic agriculture and good agricultural practices per year, and methods of supporting diesel, chemical fertilizer and soil analysis per yard to reduce production inputs by manufacturers. In 2011, producers registered to the Farmer's Recording System in 2010 are given at least 150 euro/dekar for standard plant, 300 euros/cashing support for certified planters, who build at least five sugar-filled fruit gardens using short or half-strength saplings. The manufacturers who plant close-up orchards, including other fruit trees and at least 10 Depots, are also supported by 100 euros for standard sapling, and 200 euros for certified saplings. Farmers who practice organic farming are also supported by 25 euros per gram, and by farmers who practice good agricultural practices. In addition, it is paid to support $4.25 per pot for diesel and $4.25 for fertilizer. Mr. Günfah (6/444) no. Lu, the motion he submitted to our Prime Minister regarding the support of the potato manufacturers: Our potato production has increased since 2008 and has been made at 4,57,000 tonnes in 2010 production. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Minister, are there any unanswered questions, sir? Yes, there is. How much is it?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0051par0934	There's plenty.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0050par0935	Well, I have nothing to say because you read it so quickly. I'll give you a few more minutes so there's no unanswered questions. Mr. President, I'm sorry, not to haggle, but let me finish in six or seven minutes because our friend took 40 minutes to read the questions. So if you'll allow me to complete it, our esteemed deputies will be able to answer verbal questions. All right, let's say five more minutes just to get the answers, Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0052par0938	Give me five minutes, Mr. President. The Council of Ministers on December 21, 2011 and 2011/2488 has decided that potato production was intense between November 4-14, 2011, and Kayseri, Nevşehir, and Niğde districts had delayed a year's notice due to the disasters caused by the frosting of the city's cities, and loans to the CKS, which had been damaged by the construction, crops, or greenhouses. The Ministry of Energy and EPDK have also made necessary attempts to pay electricity debts to the potato manufacturers during the harvest period. Mr. Aydın (6/460) and (6/697) no. It concerns the proposals of the Council of Ministers dated December 21, 2011: Between 15 September 20 October 2011, Kayseri, Muş, Nevşehir, Nevde and Niğde were delayed by the frosting of their crops, crops, products, animal assets, plants, and greenhouses due to disasters and loans from the original Farmers' Recording System, which had been damaged by these disasters, as well as from 4 November to 14 November 2011. Mr Dedeoğlu's (6/529) and (6/530) no. Regarding the proposals for lu, its proposal for 30 per cent and 40 per cent animal welfare support for the GAP and DAP provinces was also implemented in the province of Kahramanmarash and support for cattle breeding: Kahramanmarash was given 780,000 euros in animal support in 2002, while the amount of support for the province was spent at the end of November 2011 was $20m. In 2003-2011, Kahramanmarash was given a total of $97 million in livestock support in our province. The GAP project is the only one paid in the GAP and DAP provinces. Therefore, the implementation of this project is not possible in cities outside the GAP provinces. No. No. 6/630 of Mr. Topcu. The number of disabled officers -- the number of officers subject to 657 -- was 51 in 2010 and 50 in 2011 in our Ministry. Our ministry's number of full officers is 1,125 percent, and 1,075 should be employed after the number of disabled officers who worked in 2011 has been reduced. In accordance with regulation provisions 2011/2192 for the hiring of a disabled officer, our article, dated 31/10/2011, has been requested by the State Chief of Staff. In the event of request, we'll receive additional retards. No. 6/665) and (6/690). A total of 1,088 food engineers were placed on staff and under contract from 2004 to 2011 on the employment of food engineers in our ministry, all of which was taken by the OSYM. Controls and controls are increased every year by food engineers. As of 2011, the number of controllers reached 1,500 in 2002 was increased to 4,600. Our ministry also studies more of the employment of food engineers. Reparations will be applied in terms of the damage done by our Ministry in Anatolia to prevent the spread of the disease abroad after the treatment of the disease has been under control. They are already inoculated and are trying to get control. No. No. 6/686 of Mr. Birtane. In the Kars district of Kars from 1998 to 2011, there were 2232 villages and 23,000 hectares of mera and 180,000 hectares of merdit work in Kars district. Again, between 2000-2011, there were 12,976 hectares of mera reform and amagement project. In 2002, an animal support of 471,000 TL increased to $21,100,000 in Kars, at the end of November 2011. The total animal support we've given our province in Kars is 127,200,000 liras between 2003 and 2011. Your Original Day (6/698) and (6/699). With regard to the proposals for the jockey accident, the savings of the funds are the same regulation that the jockeys' treatment costs help and training for the jockeys...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0053par0950	Minister, thank you very much. I'm finishing with a sentence, Mr. President. No, you can answer the rest in writing. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In 2011, the jockeys were paid $1,057,329 from this crate. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. Unresolved questions will remain on the agenda, so it can be given. Now we have friends in the system. Give them a minute, please. Mr. Halaman, Adana MP...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0054par0960	Mr. President, I'd like to thank the Minister of Agriculture for the questions. And Mersin, Osmaniye, and a few days later the liberation of Adana. So it's been 90 years. So we greet these people who are fighting for the Republic of Turkey, who are martyrs, with the most compassionate of feelings, and we offer them our respect and love. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0055par0963	Thank you, Mr. Halaman. Mr. Karaahmetoglu, Giresun MP...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0056par0965	I don't think I've been able to answer my question. I ask the Minister to reconsider in writing as well. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0055par0967	Thank you. Ghaziantep MP Mr. Sugar...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0057par0969	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. But here's the problem: you mentioned that you gave 41 percent of the cost of the cotton manufacturer back to the farmer as encouragement. However, these people don't get $59 of the remaining $100 when they sell the cotton. They still owe the government electricity. Still these people are having trouble picking up the second supply of cotton, and believe me -- Gazaantep is like this now, maybe in different parts of Turkey -- the farmer stopped planting cotton. You said there was a huge 20 percent increase, but now the Gaziantep farmer can't plant the cotton because he can't find workers to collect it, he can't pay for electricity, and he doesn't pay for it when he sells it. If you'd be so kind as to explain these matters, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0058par0973	Thank you. Mr. Çelebi, the Istanbul MP...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0059par0975	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'm celebrating the new year of all our friends here and our entire nation. Mr. Secretary, you've been up here, trying to answer our questions. Frankly and sincerely, I don't understand any of your answers! Of course, you must have spoken native Turkish, but I mean, we didn't understand any of the answers as friends here. First of all, since I can't get a serious, permanent response to any of them, we wish for all of them to be given at least once more in writing. Because we asked you about the condition of the workers in the privatized sugar factories, where the production of the beet producer's problems would be moved to, on the other hand, the wheat producer's problems, and we didn't get any answers. If you give them to me in writing...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0060par0979	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Mr. Havutça, Balıkesir MP...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0061par0981	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in our region, Balıkesir is the capital of agriculture and animalism, and in particular in the Bandirma region, there is a very serious production potential for white meat. However, at the beginning of the very important problems of our white meat farmers, however, the lack of support for white meat and the high VAT rates are a very important sectoral problem. In addition, the license problems of the farmers in the villages are still under way, and unfortunately our feeders are not being supported, and today in our country, our peasants are trying to survive despite the most expensive diesel in the world, our farmers. Do you intend to remove the VAT and VAT in the mazotta used by our farmers? Do you now plan to take matters into their own hands so that our farmer can have a human income?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0062par0984	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0063par0985	Mr. President... Madam Secretary, we thank you for a year's delay in our farmers' debt to the Agriculture Bank and agricultural loans, which have faced this natural disaster. Right now, our cotton manufacturers are struggling with market development as well as the natural disasters they face. Every product of our Turkish farmer, who is trying to produce with the world's highest input costs, is under great pressure to release imports as soon as the product is released. Today's international price is 4.20 euros/kilograms, and the main reason for the production of 3.40 euros/kilograms in the domestic market is due to the release of imports during the release of our full producer's product. I don't know if I can...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0064par0990	Thank you. Mr. Soydan of Çanakkale.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0065par0992	As Minister of Food, Agriculture and Petting, what do you think you'll do about Çanakkale, a major production centre in Petting Minority, in Ayvacık, Bajramic and Ezine districts, to promote the improvement of sheep and goat species and improve efficiency and to ensure that Ezine cheese, which is on its way to becoming a world brand, can be marketed in competitive conditions in the region?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0064par0993	Thank you. Mr. Right, the Slap Congressman...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0066par0995	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary has announced that fish consumption is around 7 1/2 kilograms per year in our country. That's a very low amount, I think, as a sign that fish production is unsupported. Secondly, Mr. Secretary, we provide diesel support for the manufacturer. This support is very inadequate. If you want to be supported, all taxes must be reset, including VAT on the price of diesel. Let's raise taxes on the diesel in favor of the farmer and let the farmer breathe in peace, just as the government does in the oil and airways. He also shot the import manufacturer in livestock, turned the production upside down. While the Turkish manufacturer sheds blood and meat products and imports of animals, some countries, such as Hungary, have even sold animals to our country by importing animals, which is a subject to consider. Also, the Turkish manufacturer who's waiting for victim sales, unfortunately, in those sales...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0067par1001	Thank you, Mr. Right. Kütahya MP Mr. Illum.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0068par1003	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. Minister, a total of 14.5 TL support for sugar beets producers is insufficient. One of the biggest problems with manufacturers is the recent low polarity. For example, in Kütahya, the polarity of 20 to 22 per cent of the years has recently been withdrawn from the farmers' pockets to 15-16. On the other hand, the state of Anatolia did not benefit from the interest-free loans you gave for animal support. For example, the animal purchased for 6,500,7,000 TL is not sold for 2,500,3000 TL today. In addition, insurance and filing costs, guarantor and mortgage costs have overwhelmed the farmer. The VAT and OTV must be removed from the diesel. The support of bait and bait plants must be increased. Agricultural Credit Co-operatives...
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0069par1013	Thank you. Ardahan MP Ensar Öğün. Here you go, Mr. Reminder.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0070par1016	Mr. President, thank you. On our visit to Van three days ago, our farmer, the Vanda Arif Kılıç, is a victim because there are no food plants, because the fertilizer and diesel money are not paid, and the Department of Agriculture officials are coming, and we're going to do everything, okay, we're going to do it, we're not going to victimize the Vans. You have already suffered an earthquake in Van. We will pay for these plants, diesels, fertilizers, and water products. He said what they said, but so far it has not been paid. And because of the arrival of imported animals, our people have a large number of animals, you know, Mr. Secretary, and when the animal remains, the hay is worth a lot of money, the hay is expensive. The hay's tone is now 700 lira. In that sense, I beg of you, we'll be able to pay for food plants, fertilizer and diesel money as soon as possible and at least save our farmers in the East and the Southeast, or all over Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0071par1021	Thank you. Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0072par1023	Mr. Secretary, olive producers are in our country at harvest time, but the price of our farmers who produce olives is between $2 and 2.5 lira, and when oil producers try to sell their fat today, it's between $3.80 and $4.20. Today, the olive producer is really at a loss at the point of collecting, squeezing, or putting this product in the pool. Last semester's incentives haven't even been completed this year. What incentive do you intend to give this olive maker to get out of this difficult situation, and I ask that this be explained by you here.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0071par1024	Thank you. Madam Secretary, here you are, sir. Your time is ten minutes. Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, there was an expression of Mr. Çelebi. We didn't understand anything. Now, dear friends, we're given an hour here, verbal question motions, and within an hour these questions are read, and then they're answered, and we're dealing with a time limit. Now for more than 40 minutes, only the questions have been read. I'm the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, one of the ministers who's answered the most verbal questions in all time, most of which answer the written questions, and that's what we compared with the old times. For example, in the 23rd term, I answered 1,412 written question motions, 263 verbal question motions, 1,675 questions. There's a problem with the Civil Code, so you can either say a written question motion, and I'll answer it in writing, or I'll give you a deadline in the oral question so that I can explain it here. I don't know. I mean, you mentioned my Turkish or something. I don't know about that. I, of course, learned as much Turkish as I could.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0073par1033	Don't mention it. I learned as much as I could. We just didn't get the answers. Now, there's an answer here, what you said, what you asked, but I don't have time here to express it all verbally from this stand. I'm asking all of you in writing. So that's what I'm going to say about him. Mr. Karaahmetoglu had something to do with it. Now, Mr. Karaahmetoglu's question to me is if there was a demand for TMO to be passed on to Piyasaya, the frosting disaster in 2004... I've read about these, so I've read that the policy on nuts has been true for the last three years, and that's been reduced in terms of the cargo from the Treasury, as well as in terms of the income from Turkey's total nuts, in terms of the price that the manufacturer has acquired, and Turkey has never made this much money from nuts in the past three years, and the manufacturer has never received that much money in any time in its history. In the last three years, we've also been paying money based on buying his garden, his registered garden. Over 700 million liras from the Agricultural Ministry's support budget are paid for by over 700 trillion liras per year, so these are the things to say about nuts. What Mr. Sugar said about cotton. Now, of course, we have to tell you about cotton: 1) Turkey's cotton production is increasing; right, and cotton is what we consider a strategic product, and we're paying the most support, and I just told you, I'm paying the cotton manufacturer $41 for this year's $100 bill.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0074par1043	How do you pay, Mr. Secretary? I'm paying under various names. The cost of $1.5 million cotton. Where are you paying 40 percent? GIDE, AGREEMENT AND ANIMALITY MEHMET MEHDI EKER - Stop it now! Now, we're paying 40 lira for $100. Either you don't know the account, or they're telling you the wrong story. We know the account very well, and the cotton manufacturer knows it very well. In my science, cotton is produced and nurtured. Now, here, of course, there's a problem with the cost of labor; it's true. So the cost of collecting cotton is high in Turkey. Why is that? That's because now, in large parcels of production, the big farmers will either buy a harvester with a lot of money or hire a worker. Well, in a country where minimum wage is $700, if cotton is collected by hand, of course, it's an exponential factor. That's the truth here. But it's not just that, of course, because energy and other elements are expensive, there are actually increases at this cost from time to time, but what we can do as a government, as a ministry, is to cover some of that cost as support, and I'm paying $41 of 100. I just said the price, the, uh, the over $700 million is the bonus I paid for the cotton in a year. So I wish there was a chance in cotton, so if watering and electricity were cheaper, and there were more opportunities, the manufacturers could buy more machines. Which, to a certain limit, we support the harvester again. Now, about the small animal, about Mr. Soydan, about Çanakkale, especially the small-headed animalism in that region... friends, for the first time, we are the government that has adopted the support of small animalism in the Republic of Turkey. Earlier in Turkey, at no time was the junior head of animalism and a period of government that had not been supported or supported by its upbringing. For the first time, we have supported and supported his milk, and we support it greatly, and we also support the goat's milk, every mother's sheep, goat's milk, and goat's head. Thus, with the support we have provided, there has been a significant development in Turkey's small animal presence over the past few years. For example, during this year, the number of female sheep recorded within the first ten months and benefited from support has reached 23 million. This shows that the total presence of sheep exceeds 30 million. This is a distance that has been achieved by the project over the past few years. Now, regarding the fish, Mr. Right said: "7.5 kilograms." About there... is Mr. Right here? No. He's gone out.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0075par1053	We'll let him know. GEDA, MEHMET MEHMET MEHDI EKER (to continue) Yes. Now, dear friends, we are the government that raised cultural fishing in Turkey from 60,000 tons to 160,000 tons, nothing like this in its history. The production of 60,000 tons of fish from total cultural fishing in Turkey has increased to 160,000 tonnes today, and this has been supported. Today, we support each one of them by kilograms, both in fresh water, dams, rivers, farms, seas, seafood, and fresh water. So that's how fish production came from 60,000 tons to 160,000 tons. There are also about 550,000 tons of Turkey's fishing production, which, of course, needs to be managed well, which needs to be used in the right place. There was talk of animal imports and victim sales. Of course, let me tell you, it's about imports: part of that is breeding imports. In reality, Turkey is importing part of its breeding needs for its breeding needs by building new businesses. That's also important, because in Turkey, to turn it into higher-qualified, higher-efficient culture races, it's needed to build new major businesses, and I've just told you, the number of businesses with more than 50 major animals in Turkey rose to 24,000 in 2011, so this is what it means: 20,000 in Turkey, 20,000 in it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] - I'm done, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0076par1058	Madam Secretary, thank you. To answer the rest in writing... Well, thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0077par1062	The diesel, the diesel, Mr. Secretary. What about the farmer's diesel, Mr. Secretary? Support for the diamond, no support for the maszota, Mr. Secretary, tell me that.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit01spe0076par1063	Congressmans, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0076par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 46th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On the agenda, we move on to the "Object of Laws and Proposals" section from the Commissions. We begin talks with the Dair Law Bill and Foreign Commission Report, which ranked in the 1st place in the Middle East Sinkrotron Light Experimental Sciences and Applications International Status. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed by the number of 64 rows. Anyone want a word on the whole bill? No. I submit to your votes that the bill be passed... by those who don't... those who don't... are accepted. We should not be allowed to participate in the status quo of the National Institute for Human Rights and Medicine. MADDE 1- (1) We are eligible to participate in the International Centre for Experimental Sciences and Applications (SESAME), which took effect on 15 April 2004, with the adoption of the entity countries. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. As it does not exist, I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. (x) 64 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. The Council of Ministers shall carry out these provisions. Anyone want a word on the matter? No. I submit the item to your votes: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by electronic devices: those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and in spite of that help, the members of the voting boards will be delivered to the presidency within three minutes of the scheduled vote. Also, if there are any ministers who will vote by proxy, I'd like them to vote by which minister, in the three-minute period envisioned for the vote, the color of the game, and the ballot with its name and name. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] I declare the conclusion of the open vote on the Open Bill of the Perpetual Law that we are eligible to participate in the Middle East Sinkrotron Light Experimental Science and Applications International Status: ▪ Number of votes used : 237 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. Between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan, Hodja Ahmet Yesevi will begin negotiations between the International Turkish-Kazak University and the Government of the historic Republic of Turkey on October 22, 2009 and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Hodja Ahmet Yesevi International Türk-Kazak University on the adoption of the Protocol on the Computing of Amendments to Agreement. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 32 rows. Wanting to speak on the whole bill, Aytuğ Atcı of the Republican People's Party, Mersin MP. [[Applause from CHP rows]] (x) Open voting is included in the table report showing the final results. (xx) 32 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0078par0049	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Dair Agreement on the functioning of the International Turkish-Kazak University between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Kazakhstan. I salute you all. Dear friends, my condolences and condolences to our citizens who were first killed in Şırnak Uludere. To view this incident as a simple mistake and to try to make it look like a simple mistake is only for the AKP government. As always, the government says I did the good things, and he did the bad things. So, I'm asking you, who is it? It's the government, outside the government, sometimes it's the government, sometimes it's the soldier, sometimes it's the judge. Sometimes it is possible to lengthen the list. Even the children now know how powerful the AKP government is in order to empty all values and present them to our citizens in fancy words. And thanks to them, they didn't mislead us, they were the only criminals, so they stood up and became heroes. I suggest that the members of the government look into the mirror from time to time, not such a simple look, but a deep look, a journey through their eyes to their hearts. Just as the government was buried in the Van earthquake, it was the government that was actually bombed in the Uludere bombing. Dear MPs, today is January 3rd, the day of the liberation of Mersin from enemy occupation. Today, we tried to celebrate the 90th year of Mersin's deliverance from enemy occupation despite all else. For some time now, there are executives in Mersin, trying to stop us from celebrating our national days with enthusiasm and thinking they're smart. These poor, wise men seem to have learned a great deal from their elders. As in all the dorms, Mersin is also trying to evacuate the interior of national and local days. Those who do so must remember that the people of Mersin see these games very well. As we call it, our people won't swallow it. Mersin has survived the invasion of the enemy and is now moaning under the occupation of other forces.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0079par0057	What powers?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0078par0058	Mr. Congressman asked me what powers, and I'm answering them now. First power, unemployment, Congressman. Second, economic problems. Third, the effort to separate people. Think about how much you have in them, how much you've contributed to your laugh. More importantly, you've made him an invader by building a nuclear power plant for Mersin. A nuclear power plant alone will do what the French cannot do in Mersin. I'd like to announce this to you from here. Mersin, don't worry, he'll know how to get rid of these new invaders and especially local collaborators. Don't doubt it. The great Ataturk, the Christians, said to take care of Mersin. Today is the day. My dear Ancestor, do not doubt that the Mersinites will continue to take care of Mersin, as they always do. I remember with respect and mercy the heroes who fought against the invading forces 90 years ago, who were martyrs, who were veterans, and who saved our beautiful Mersin from the enemy, and I salute those who tried to save Mersin from the new invaders. Dear MPs, we will now discuss the functioning of Professor Ahmet Yesevi International Turk-Kazak University between the government of the Republic of Turkey and the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. This law is generally about the functioning of the University of Turk-Kazak. With the proposed changes, the total is only a four - page law, a bill, and 18 articles. The Republican People's Party strongly supports co-operation with the universities of other countries, especially the countries we share a common culture with, but there is only one clause in these 18 clauses that seriously burdens those who will vote on this agreement. What I'm going to say from now on, I'm especially asking the medical-based MPs to listen more carefully because they're more interested in these issues, because if they vote on this bill, then they will have deliberately signed the plague. This item I'm talking about is the nineth article, the valued lawmakers. The 9th article says that the equivalence and equivalence of diplomas given by the university is accepted by entity states. Look, it's just a little bit of matter. The matter is very important. Let's put all the other 18 articles aside... and I'm rereading this clause: the equivalence and equivalence of diplomas given by the university is acceptable to the entity states. It is this: A person with a degree from Professor Ahmet Yesevi International University of Turk-Kazak will benefit directly from the opportunities provided by that degree without any examinations in our country. So, is there a medical school in this university? There is. Is this medical school education enough? I don't know, and you probably won't either. So, who do we ask about this? The person to question this matter is the head of the Trustee Committee, who is at the top of that university. The President of the Trustee Committee came to the Foreign Affairs Commission and gave us information about this, and according to his response to the Foreign Commission, the education of the medical school is not enough. The president also says that the medical school hospital we opened has a hard time providing full service because there are no universities-related hospitals in that area -- see, I'm reading from the report. This is a kind expression, as you would appreciate. So what's the translation? There is no medical training here. I'm asking you, if there's no hospital, will there be medical training? The president of the Board of Trustees says, "I think it's very wrong to open a medical school there right now." I'm not saying that. This is from the board of trustees you sent me, and I'm about to take a look at it one at a time. All of you will raise your hands and say, "Yes, let someone who has graduated from here come to this country and practice medicine." I'm really curious as to how you'll be able to sleep tonight, lawmakers from med school. I worked in colleges for many years. I know what that means. I just told you that the chancellor who's in charge of this university's education -- who's going to try to qualify his inadequacy -- is the top person by the Republic of Turkey? Your guess is right, no, it's not. By the Republic of Kazakhstan. The 12th article is bound by this. So you're going to say that the medical school at Ahmet Yesevi University is inadequate, the hospitals are inadequate, the medical school is wrong here. You're going to say, "Come on, medical school can be improved." The person at the top of the line to fix this will be not from Turkey, but from Kazakhstan. In Article 12 you will also vote on this, and you will vote on that. In Turkish, I say that people who have graduated from a medical school that does not provide sufficient training will practice medicine in Turkey. I don't know if I can hear you back there. If it does not come, I repeat again: Doctors who have graduated from this university, from this medical school with insufficient education will be considered a direct match in Turkey without being subject to any tests and will look after you, your children, your grandchildren. If you accept this bill, you will be responsible for the failures of these incompetent physicians, because now I have told you because you know. You will be responsible for the mistakes these physicians will make. Just like any other college, they'll take the equivalence test, they'll be all over our heads. Then let's go in peace and let's examine them. Now, I'm going to tell you a more awkward situation about this faculty. Sir, what do you have to do to make this faculty better? They took what they thought was a smart approach. Sir, there are a few professors from Turkey who will teach there from time to time. For God's sake, people who know medical school know. We have an old saying called "Strike does not come back with water. " Teachers who are professors at this university cannot conduct this training in any way because medical school education is difficult and requires continuity. Dear MPs, there are some wrongs, believe me, that the AKP, the MP, the BDP, the CHP, they don't listen, they shoot everyone. The same is true of health mistakes. If you accept a minor as a physician, you never know who this physician will shoot. Some mistakes are being made here. Most of these are recycled. What happens? The AKP government goes away, another government comes in, corrects them if there are wrong practices. These are reversible situations, but the mistakes made in health are unrefundable in no way, and the lives that are gone are never coming back. I've been a student for many years in med school. There are a lot of lawmakers who have been teaching members. They'll understand what I'm talking about. Come, don't be a party to this mistake. Come, please don't sign off on anything that'll keep you up at night. We know very well that we have evolved according to Kazakhstan. Even in our country, there are problems with medical education, and I don't even want to think about the burden that those who have studied in Kazakhstan will bring on our health care system. I don't even want to think about the burden of ungrown physicians in Kazakhstan as we complain about the lack of our own education and discuss the burdens it brings to our patients, our people. Our healthcare system is already going blind. You're privatizing first-level health care, and then you're doing a piece-by-piece work with the performance system, and then you're bringing up the problems of devaluement of the practice of medicine, and you're dragging our health care system down to the swamp, and you're moving the burden of physicians who have not had enough education from the University of Kazakhstan into this country. The plague of this is great. In the end, you will be responsible for the mistakes that will occur. Look, we're from our country -- you know, you're always saying that the health system is perfect, perfect. - I'll give you an example of the quality of the healthcare system. There are important elements that show the development of health: the baby's death rate. Like you, my fellow physicians, I know where the speed of the baby's death is coming from, but you should also know that the Ministry of Health detects these rates through reflection, and for this year, its number is ten percent. Let's say we even agree to 10 in a thousand, let's say that 10 in a thousand is right, that every year in our country 12,500 babies die without celebrating their first birthday. Now please don't get up at me and say, "Wow, sir, it used to be in the 200s in this thousand, that's what it was. I'm a doctor who knows exactly where it came from, where it's fallen, and he's working for it to fall. Right now, in our country you've been running for ten years, your Minister of Health said that babies die 10 percent, not me. So I did a math: 12,500, every year, you didn't hear wrong, exactly 12,500 babies die in this country without celebrating their first birthday, so we have a Marmara earthquake in our country every year, five Van earthquakes every year, and none of you know it, but the Minister of Health knows it.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0080par0076	How much was it in 2002?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0078par0077	Now, you're saying the same thing: how much was it in 2002? How much was it before? My dear friends, you came here to fix this country. You've had every opportunity for ten years, and you've reduced it to 10 percent? Greece is 4 per thousand. Even Bulgaria is better than us. Even Syria you don't like is better than us. Now that I'm up and about here, friends, we bury 12,500 babies every year. I say, "What was that in 2002?" For God's sake, please keep 12,500 babies dying every year in the back of your mind. Besides, only babies die in these earthquakes, only babies. I don't count the others or the kids or anything. Now I'm asking you, do you know why I gave this sample, Congressman, why I gave it to you? This deal, this deal you're about to raise, this deal, is it going to improve your healthcare system, or is it going to make it worse? Can you take that risk or not? That's the problem. I say, if 12,500 babies are dying, we need better doctors, we need a better quality of health care. You wake up to me... from a university he calls "sister," and bring medical school graduates to our country without even looking at the equivalent of what the trustee says.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0081par0079	Do that check again, it's gotta be 1,300, not 12 grand. Do it again.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0078par0080	I did the math very, very well, very well. I'm much better at math than you are. Notice that lawmakers of doctorate origin do not speak. Of course they won't, because they know my calculations are right.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0081par0081	How much is 1 million to 300,000?
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0078par0082	You do the math, then come back and we'll talk. Now, after this critical medical dimension, I'd like to bring up the social scale of the event. Look, we all have kids, we all have kids, we all have college exams -- a student who can't go to medical school that he's missed with just 01 points -- but he's way behind himself, because his father has a lot of money, so what will he feel when he graduates from the Turkish University of Kazakh, which you're about to approve of, and then he comes to Turkey and starts practicing medicine? If this child were your child, how would you feel as a parent? Think about it, for God's sake. There are some successful kids here who can't go to medical school with little numbers, and you get up, and you bring a kid who's in a poor medical school at the University of Ahmet Yesevi, and you get him to practice medicine here. I mean, if this is God's way, if this is your idea of justice, I can't say anything else. There have been physicians who have studied and returned on paper in some foreign lands, and my fellow physicians will know that very well. They went in, they majored before they left, they paid, everybody in the medical system knows that. They came as experts, and our hearts bled. Heroic, wise, conscientious physicians and teachers did not specialize in them. They did what they did and somehow took a major. You'll still be up before those wounds are closed and you'll bring a doctor from Kazakhstan without even asking for an equal. There's also a dimension of justice. When you look at the dimension of fairness, it's mandatory service. Think of a very successful medical student, excellent. He's finishing medical school in first place. Where's he going as soon as he's finished? Up and at 'em, forced service. Let him go, okay, we're all gone. Where does that less successful physician from Kazakhstan go? He's going to the right residency. I mean, if that's your idea of rights, I don't have anything to say. But if that's not what you understand about truth and justice, withdraw this proposal. This proposal will seriously upset you in this world and in the next, Mr. Secretary. And I will speak of it all the time, as long as my heart is strong enough. In the 12th article of this bill, I said that the chancellor of the University of Ahmet Yesevi would be by Kazakh. And that's mind-blowing. Look, we provide 54 percent of the entire funding of this university. Our academic contribution is almost entirely due to us. And then we say, "Let the president be one of them." I asked the trustee again: "Is this true, for God's sake?" Academic aid is on us, everything is on us, you get up, you go, you pick the president on the other side. He said to me, "Yes, you're right, it's not true, but we couldn't get it to agree. If you couldn't get it to agree, pull the deal back. If you're not withdrawing the deal, is there something else we don't know? Please tell us all about it. So tell me what will happen to this bill, which is irreparable and really full of plagues. Look, as a physician, I'm asking you. Please say no. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0082par0090	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. The second speaker in general is Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0083par0094	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We have two universities in the Turkish Republics: one at Manas University and one at Hodja Ahmet Yesevi University. As of last year, in 2010 -- 2011 has not yet been announced -- Turkey's Republic of Turkey's contribution to this university was 187m dollars, Kazakhstan's 99m dollars, student revenues of 86 million. I'll make evaluations within this framework. As of 1994, as a person who has been frequenting these republics since 94, I have been to the University of Professor Ahmet Yesevi many times, and I have given conferences. The establishment of such universities here is very essential in the Turkish Republics, where even the number must be increased. Professor Ahmet Yesevi University is one of the universities we first opened as Turkey. First, in October 1992, an agreement was reached on October 31st, and the university was established on September 14, 1993. There are a lot of difficulties under contract at the university's first foundation. As the minister said earlier, the chancellor will be appointed by the Cossacks, and the president of the Kazakh is in charge, and there have been difficulties. In fact, from this point of view, there's been a lot of difficulty in the law of the previous era, in terms of the functioning of the university. In fact, there have been many trials, including bribery issues, including classing. But with this agreement -- today -- on October 22, 2009 -- between the Government of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which was signed in Ankara, and the Government of Kazakhstan -- teacher Ahmet Yesevi International -- the Ministry of Turkish-Kazak University is no longer in the interests of the Dair Agreement, the new yields of this situation, and the agreement says: "This situation has been eliminated and has been given to the first deputy minister, appointed by the president and the Turkish Republic of Turkey." Hence, that tribulation is being eliminated by this agreement. Again, within this framework, the founding of the International University of Turkey-Kazak, Professor Ahmet Yesevi, you know -- our president and prime ministers, the President and the ministers of that period -- was drafted by agreements at the level of presidents and ministers. There were great difficulties in implementing the charter, which was a legal uncertainty. However, today's agreement has brought this to order. Problems with the legal structure of the university have been resolved, and the university has gained the structure of an international joint state university with the two countries. This is important in this regard: If we are to consider Turkey's close relations with the Turkish Republics and Turkey's Turkish Republics, if Turkey is to enter into integration, in the future it will form a union, which is often spoken by Kazakhstan's President Nazarbayev and at the last meeting in Nahçivan, issues such as the establishment of the Turkish parliamentary union are also on the agenda. If this union is to be formed, these universities must continue in a similar educational system with Turkey, which, by becoming internationally judged, will emerge from the University of Kazakhstan and become an international university title, which will perform an important function in this regard at the University of Ahmet Yesevi. Again, the agreement has been authorized by the trustees to draft the charter within the charter. The tribulations of the previous period have been resolved by this. So the trustees will have the right to change the charter, and the needs and gaps that will come out of it will be met. So this is also corrected by the 10/3 (a) clause. Again, the University of Ahmet Yesevi, founded as an international common state university, was founded with a different understanding than the universities in Kazakhstan, but we see that this has not been implemented in the past. So we see that these problems have been eliminated, and that the entity has made the countries equal to administrative, financial, academic responsibility, which is a happy situation. In terms of education, Ahmet Yesevi University was no different from the state universities in Kazakhstan, as I just said. Thus, with this 2009 Agreement, the parties accept the university's autonomous, international status and open the way for administrative, financial, academic structure in the international standard, independent of the Kazakhstan legislation. This eliminates a problem in Turkey and Kazakhstan, as it has just been said, for those who have graduated from here to find a direct job. Because not only Kazakh and Kazakh students are educated in Kazakhstan. Here students from both Turkey and other countries and students from communities are studying. The introduction of equal value status, however, means that the university will come to a position that will work directly with the universities in Turkey. As a matter of fact, scientists sent from Turkey teach there in Kazakhstan with the education system in Turkey. There was a problem with them before, getting a visa, staying there. If they stay for more than two years, their situation here, their position, and their position there, are also eliminated by this 2009 agreement. At the same time, students and professors leaving Turkey have been given the capacity to benefit from hospitals, while foreign national Ahmet Yesevi University has also been adopted to meet the health costs of students and staff from the university budget. Friends, these may seem simple for people who haven't been in those areas, but when you get there, you'll find that people are suffering a great deal. It is also important that the university has a hospital that has not yet existed, and that they begin to receive treatment at this hospital. Precious lawmakers, as at the University of Kazakhstan, are also highly educated at the University of Manas in Kyrgyzstan, but the closure of certain departments at the University of Ahmet Yesevi in Kazakhstan is one of the important issues that should be corrected, I think. It is important that the students who are trained here act under the rules set by the university in the first degree, because we must also point out that the students, with the understanding of the former Russia in Kazakhstan, are unfortunately in disciplinary situations. It is vital that these be met with new regulations to be drawn up in person. Dear lawmakers, we see that Turkey has not been interested in the Turkish republics lately, and there are no serious clauses in the government programme. For example, one of the mistakes made in these matters is our relationship with Azerbaijan. Due to the Armenian expansion, unfortunately, no contact with Armenia before the Mountain Karabakh region was brought to light has caused our relations with Azerbaijan to suffer and cool. When I went to Azerbaijan recently, I saw that at an international meeting, unfortunately, our Ambassador was not included in the protocol, and I had to set up a chair next to me myself, where I had to sit him down. You can look very good from the outside, or you can say that politically, but remember, really, there is a coldness in Azerbaijan to Turkey, and there must be a solution to the Armenian issue of this coldness. Especially on February 26th, the High School Genocide Day is coming up. Turkey may have a much closer agenda in our relations with Azerbaijan if it organises a very serious, broad-scale programme on this matter. Dear MPs, today is January 3rd, the day of the liberation of Mersin and Osmaniye. Why am I saying this? What does that have to do with anything? In fact, the salvation of both our cities -- you know there's Adana on January 5th -- from whom? Saved from who? He was rescued from the French army by the Ankara Convention. But three battalions of the six French troops are made up of Armenians, and the people who live here know that they have suffered a great deal of persecution. Since I was born in Kozan, I know this place well, beyond being a historian. My grandfather died in 1972 at the age of ninety-six, fully aware of the events. In April 2011, my aunt passed away. She was 18 years old. Hence, he was thirteen years old at the time, and he knows them very well. So since I've heard from witnesses myself, there are two ovens in Kozan, where Armenians burn Muslims. Look, Mersin has been saved, Osmaniye has been saved. Today, France has backed those Armenians, and has been able to reject genocide, incarceration and fine those who reject genocide. We, as Turkey, have to come to our senses. We need to take this seriously and keep the matter on the agenda, based on documents, beyond certain showmanship. Then let us consider why the matter of Armenia has come to light. Let's face it, and from now on, let's set our relations with Azerbaijan on this framework, Turkmenistan. Turkmenistan is the richest natural gas reserves in the world today. A well opened in Turkmenistan in 2009 is rich and capable of completing 70 years of need for both Turkey and Turkmenistan. Thus, the late Turkmenbaş (Turkishman)'s offer to give Turkey natural gas was rejected at that time, and there were huge mistakes committed, but today Turkey is taking the natural gas that it has committed to give for 49 dollars from Russia for over $300, $400. Kazakhstan is 3.5 times the size of Turkey. Its population is four times lower than Turkey's, but Kazakhstan is really in a very important position for the Turkish world, in geography. We need to have close relations with Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzistan and the entire Turkish world. Look, the United States is fighting in Afghanistan. Against who? He says he's fighting against the Taliban. In fact, what is the basis of America's war in Afghanistan? Afghanistan, according to current calculations, has a $1 trillion lithium mine. This is explained by the United States of America. $1 trillion in lithium mines. What does it do? It's the main source of the batteries in our computers, the batteries in our phones, and it's the source of the battery of electric cars. Then understand why this war is happening here. Well, understand why the war in Iraq is so important to the United States, what happened in Syria. Think about why we're going to fight Iran. The shortest road to Turkish republics is Iran. Today, we became quarrelling with Iran. However, one of the government's best works was to establish good relations with Iran and lift visas. Again, one of his best work was to lift the visa and establish close relations with Syria, but today, the exact opposite of what was done yesterday, and our relations with these states were almost brought to the level of war. So, please accept that it has been wronged, and follow the right policy by considering such events from a very broad perspective. Dear MPs, the Turkish republics, which gained independence in 1991, have come to great lengths after 20 years. Turkey's share here is not very small, I'll give you that in particular. But, look, one by one, from these republics, our businessmen gather their bowls and return. Have you thought about why? Why did they leave Turkmenistan? Why do they have to leave? Why did we leave Uzbekistan? Why are our businessmen slowly moving away from Azerbaijan? We need to make good use of them. Here, these universities will raise people who know Turkish, who know Turkish, who know Turkish, who can provide integration with Turkey. In this regard, as the University of Turk-Kazak, I would like to express to you that the changes of the University of Ahmet Yesevi are much more beautiful than the law taken at the university in the past term, and that it is good, and that I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-03sit02spe0084par0119	[[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Halaçoglu. Congressmans, this is the end of our working time. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (January 4th 2012) that we discuss draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (January 4th 2012). I'm closing the meeting at 00.
