tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll do an electronic roll call. I'll give you three minutes to roll call. I'd like to ask the lawmakers to press voting buttons and report that they've been in the hall, that lawmakers who have not been able to access the electronic system during that time should ask for help from technical staff present in the hall, while members who have not been able to enter the system will be able to deliver the roll call ballots to the presidency within three minutes. Initiating roll call. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mr Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0002par0016	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The local media, which is the voice of Anatolia, also performs a vital task in strengthening the basic communication function, as well as in maintaining the values that keep the community together and moving to tomorrows. The local press operates under difficult circumstances, with great sacrifice and sacrifice. The most important source of revenue for local media, the Press Advertisement Agency, was an increase in revenues in 2004, but in the following years, it was moving backwards. In this regard, the number reduction of ads by some public administrations, the reduction of ads, the notation of ads, the ads for the general councils of associations and cooperatives, the absence of the CSIDES, BELDES ads, the frequent preference of the road to the bulletin boards in the districts and districts...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0003par0019	Mr. Tin Man, just a second. Congressmans, can we please reduce the hum in the General Assembly? Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0004par0022	...the loss of notices, through privatisations and other issues as a result of division of public tenders and raising threshold values have been the main factors. In the draft drafting of the Public Contraction Act during the past legislature, the approach to the publication of the ads fully electronically and now the drafting of the draft for amendments to the Executive Bankance Act has caused unrest in the press community. In fact, the Press Agency has opened the way for a process that will make newspapers a brand with its own Internet news sites. In this way, public tender ads and notices of bankruptcy can be easily published in the Internet. With that respect, the legal arrangements must be taken into consideration. The Anadolu press favours the administration of its relationship with the director and helps to maintain control on behalf of the public. In this sense, local publishing must be considered and supported as a public duty. As part of the transparency of public activities and accountability responsibility, the application must be initiated to inform the locals in terms of central administration and local administrations and their activities in each province with specific periods to the local media in that province. In particular, such a structure should be created, such as budget and investment programme and practices and zoning arrangements, where public administrations will provide information and accounts to the public. On this occasion, local media will also be supported, which freely transfer public activities to the public in its settlement. Special support programmes must be put into practice so that the Anadolu press can continue its activities as a serious, media-based, neutral and objective broadcaster. In order to survive, they can also be prevented from becoming the voice of some people and organizations. For this purpose, non-interest loan support should be implemented, such as in some sectors, so that newspapers with many outdated primitive machines can modernise printing facilities, television and radios can renew their technology. Investment incentives by the Ministry of Economics should be provided to create a special area that can be applied for the minimum amount of investment for local newspapers, radios and televisions in Anatolia, as well as tax, insurance premium incentives and investment placement. In development agencies' calls for projects, projects of local newspapers, radios and televisions should be 75 per cent, as the rate of support is applied to NGOs. COSGEB supports should be discussed as a package with a new approach to local media. In this case: The Co-operation Support Package shall be provided with a new form for press operations. IN THE KOBI Support Package, the letter must be upgraded to provide computer equipment for local newspapers, radios and televisions. In the Qualitative Employment Instigation Package, the grant must be increased for local newspapers, radios and televisions. In this way, more communication faculty and qualified individuals can be employed in local newspapers, radio and television. I salute you all again.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0005par0036	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. The second non-responsive statement is from Mersin Akkuyu MP Aytuğ Atıcı, who asked for a comment on the nuclear power plant. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0006par0041	Thank you. Mr. President, I have taken a stand outside the agenda regarding the planned nuclear power plant in Mersin's paradise Akkuyu region. I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, do I need to remind you again of the disaster that occurred at Chernobyl and Fukushima Nuclear Power Plants? If not, why are you building a nuclear plant to Akkuyuya? What is your purpose? If we think you're innocent, our answer may be to meet our energy needs, to compete with other countries. Well, these are good answers. Do we need to build a nuclear power plant for these? So how do we solve our energy problem? By consuming our environment, not by polluting, but by using native and renewable energy sources, the sun, wind, geothermal and water. Is that possible? It sounds like a dream to you, but yes, I'm giving you the answer from here. Don't laugh, Congressman, I'll tell you why, what happened. I'll tell you better, don't worry! I'm speaking to the Minister of Energy and the Prime Minister, and you listen to me, lawmakers: Your advisors, bureaucrats are deceiving you, not giving you the right information. How do I know? They came to our commission, and they gave us information. There's a lot of wrong and word games. I'll tell anyone who desires what happened for a long time. If our renewable energy sources are evaluated, even in 2030, we have enough renewable energy to cover twice as much electricity as we demand. I'm a scientist, and I can prove it to you one by one. You can also provide energy from four nuclear plants with energy savings and prevention of illegal losses. Let's do a little math. In 2020 -- let's not go too far, you know -- what do we need energy for? Well, do you know how much energy can be produced year-on-year in our country that sees 350 days a year and 7.5 hours a day? 400 terawatt hours, that's exactly what we need. The wind, the geothermali, and not to mention those disgusting fossil fuels. If I add these, we get twice as much energy with only renewables. What is it, sir? Your bureaucrats are telling you that it's very expensive. It's very difficult. You're in power to overcome the difficulties, dear lawmakers. You're gonna get through this, brother. Instead of giving babies cancer, you have to overcome the challenges, you have no choice. Look around, what's everybody doing? What is Germany doing in Libya? I'll tell you: he's building twelve solar power plants in Libyan deserts and selling us electricity. You know what this looks like? It's like going to the Arctic and selling refrigerators. Please, don't fool anyone. The financing, operating, dismantling cost of nuclear power plants is high, technologically dependent entirely on the outside. The radioactive waste problem is unresolved. These wastes, look, they don't disappear for millions of years, not thousands. Production security is low, the risk of accidents is high. Because of the nuclear power plants, the ecological balance would break down. In case of a possible leak, a large number of people will die, and more will get cancer. Because of the DNA fractures, these cancers are passed down from generation to generation. I'm calling to Mr. Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, you've recently had a fear of cancer. You and those who really love you know what that means. Now, how do you see this fear of cancer in the people of Mersin? Think about it. Although there is no leak, leukemia inclusion around the nuclear plant has increased by 2.2 times the frequency of leukemia. Look, when you build a nuclear plant here, agriculture will be negatively affected, no one will buy vegetables here; tourism will be negatively affected, no tourists will come. You will use the sea to cool the nuclear plant, the sea's temperature will rise by 2 degrees, and no living creature will live here. So now, the whole world is giving up, and you have to give up. Turn around and look at the deal you made with Russia. Look, you'll get the most expensive energy, the most expensive. You've guaranteed 15 years, 15 years to Russia. While everyone around the world is taking nuclear energy for 6-7 cents, we'll take 13.3, pay attention, lawmakers, you'll understand better than the account, we'll get 13.3 cents. In 15 years, we'll give about 71 billion dollars to the Russians. Now, I'm asking you, for God's sake, think hard and be honest with yourselves: which one of you wants a nuclear power plant near your house? For God's sake! Look, one of you isn't raising your hand. For God's sake, which one of you would like a nuclear power plant next to your house? One man raised his hand. Good luck, we'll build the nuclear plant next to your house. Look, you're not responsible for the disasters, but you'll be responsible for the plant. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0007par0056	Thank you, Mr. Horseman. In the name of the government, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Taner Yildiz. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0008par0060	Mr. President, my dear friends, I felt the need to address a number of issues on behalf of our government regarding the Mersin Akkuyu nuclear power plants, which Mr. Aytug Horseman was promised in non-responsibility talks. I salute you all. Of course, being a scientist is a place we all want to reach, but when you say you're becoming a scientist, it's not right to mislead our people, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the General Assembly of Turkey. Now, we can't settle this by looking at it subjectively and emotionally. When we look at the world, these nuclear power plants have been implemented on Earth for 40 to 40 years. There are 442 nuclear power plants now. Half of these 442 nuclear power plants are in three countries: the United States, Japan and France. It's in 30 separate countries, and when we look at these nuclear power plants and development indexes, there's almost one or two countries in G-20 countries that don't have a nuclear power plant. Dear friends, of course, Turkey is not Turkey's ten-year-old. The GDP has tripled, and in the next 11 years, we're hoping to increase it to a triple. That's our target. Now that we have this goal, we have to act accordingly. Now, look, there's been some talk of numbers. I'm really, really sorry. I mean, we're all about renewable energy sources, whether it's the wind or the wind, whether it's the geothermal or the biomass, whatever it is, we want every resource to be used to the end. This is our local source, our renewable source, and we have coal, which can't be renovated, but is our local source. We need to improve that, too. These are our targets. However, each energy source has its advantages and disadvantages compared to the other. If you're trying to replace the sun with the nuclear plant or the nuclear plant with the sun, that's wrong, my friends. Now, each one of them has its own significance. Each has its own truth. We're clearing the way for the wind plants, aren't we? We said we're going to do 20,000 megawatts, 20,000 megawatts of power plant, and the average is 2,200-2 in 8.640 hours. You can get about 500 hours of energy. So when the wind blows, you can get it, and when the wind doesn't blow, you can't get it. Can I just say to an industrialist, our residence, please wait for the wind in three hours? I can't say that, but we still believe that the ESTs are extremely necessary for Turkey, and a significant part of our work on licensing is over, and a 12,000 megawatt wind plant will have been built within four years. Now, it's a separate location, but doing one project doesn't mean giving up on the other, because Turkey should be able to afford it, with all its aspects developed. If you build solar plants for 400 billion kilowatts, you don't leave farmland, you don't leave land, you don't leave land, you don't leave land, you don't leave culture, you don't leave nature, you don't leave anything. Every single one of them has to be in a balance, all of them, all of them, those who deal with energy, know it. What is the burden, what are the burdens that can be put on it; each one of them is put in one by one. Look, Germany and Spain are two developed countries that develop both wind and solar plants, right? They both have nuclear power plants. Germany's nuclear power plant covers 27 per cent of its total electricity. These aren't small numbers, these are very serious numbers. Well, Turkey's coast to the sea is 8,484 kilometers. I say we both evaluate green, evaluate our tourism assets, take care of these cultural assets in our country, where three civilisations have passed -- okay -- let's take care of our environment -- of course, we'll do that -- but let's keep our energy sources. My question is: Why do seven nuclear power plants not stop tourism where Paris is 90 kilometers [90 km] in diameter, but the nuclear power plant in Turkey prevents tourism? Give me a reasonable answer, please. Paris is now the world's largest tourist attraction, attracting 55 million tourists. A city attracts almost twice as many tourists in Turkey -- almost 30 million, if we accept them. There's a nuclear power plant about 70 kilometers away. So the tourist who comes to Paris does not get nervous, our tourist who will come to Mersin will be nervous! There's no such thing, guys. Now, we need to sit down and talk straight. You said 13.3 cents, and I think it's a slip. Around 12.3 cents -- 12,35 -- we made our deal. Now, those who understand finance know it very well. In 2019, the number, which will be at a fixed price for 15 years during the buy-in period, is now reduced to $6.40 per cent, friends. If you can get a price like me, I'll start those negotiations again from tomorrow, but at the same time, our friend who's saying this is a very, very important point that once the purchase guarantees are complete, after the nuclear power plants have dedicated their amortisms, every $100 profit from here will be transferred to the treasury of the Republic of Turkey, which is 20 percent. I mean, we don't-- you give examples, six cents, eight cents, that's true in the world, but you pay for it. You pay 21 billion dollars, you borrow your treasure within the limits of debt, your interest goes up by 1.5 points, you give more than you think you get from your other pocket, but you don't account for them. It's not the right thing to do. So would you have them do it next to your house? Today, Kashiwazaki is in Japan, the world's largest nuclear power plant. Go to him, there's not a house, there's not a town, there's usually a city. Look close to Paris, look in Spain, look in Brussels, 82% of total electricity, supply electricity, 76 percent of what I call nuclear power plants. Yeah, we've got targets for missing-and-missing, we've got savings, we're gonna do that, but doing that, like I said, doesn't mean stopping the other one. There are 5,100 pieces in a tractor factory, my friends, about 10,200 parts in a car, and there are about 510,000 parts of nuclear power plants for us, just as they are for us to do, to be brought into our industry. Now, in the agreement with Russia, we say: "How much return will there be?" They say: "The more you can do, the more refunds there will be." Is it native to the part we can't do? Now, we're being given a new target, whether by 2023, Turkey has made parts related to nuclear power plants in its local industry, reaching about three times as high as the current industrialisation. It's not just electricity supply, it's nuclear power plants, it's not just an electrical problem, it's also an industrialization problem. Please look at South Korea's figures in the 1970s. In the 1950s of South Korea, in the 1950s -- you know, at 52, 54, you know, we went there, and we went to that war in person -- the gross domestic product and the per capita income were lower than ours, but they took 100 percent of the needle from Westhinghouse in 71 to 72. Now, they're doing 100 percent, and they've got their 27th power plant, and they can bid on the foreign country. Now, Turkey doesn't just grow with its body, it doesn't grow with its brain, it doesn't really grow, and Turkey, along with its engineering, has the capacity and the ability to grow with its technical teams. I'm saying there are 46 applications for energy on our shores about 8,648 kilometers, friends, and 46 objections. Is there anything wrong with that? There's something wrong with that. Come on, brother, you object to 20. Why do you object to the others? I'm going to sum it up: this appeal is not an objection to that project, it's an objection to the development of the country. I'm sorry, we won't let that happen either. I salute you with all these thoughts and feelings.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0009par0073	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Mr Ekrem Çelebi, the Ağrı MP who wants to mention the anniversary of the Ottoman State. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0010par0077	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0009par0078	Sir?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0010par0079	Mr. Secretary, the scientist has suggested that I have misled the public with my identity. With your permission, Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0009par0080	Now I've called the preacher. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a promise to address the establishment of the Ottoman Empire outside the agenda. I salute you all. History is a field of experience. It's very important to know how to learn from this field, how to get shares out of it. As our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy has made a striking statement, they describe history as a repeater, would it be repeated if the example had been taken? Abdulhamit is not history, but mistakes repeat themselves. These are the answers to the question, why do we need history? In the centuries between 1000 and 2000, the world was a stage for two great empires. We built these two great empires. In 1071, Sultan Alparslan gave the first command of the Battle of Malazgirt, in East Anatolia, where he put on his white clothes and held two rekat prayers, my hometown is Grebido Hill, located in the village of Doğansu, Patnos district of Ağrı. But history writes it as the Battle of Malazgirt Square, and that's how we accept it. As you all know, Asia Minor began to meet Islam after the 1071s. With this sense of conquest, Asia Minor has become our nation's home country, since then, without division, without fragmentation, with the heart, body, and power of empires. The Ottoman Empire was founded in 1299. Another view against this date, however, is that the satire met on the basis of 699 years. This is January 27, 1300, and that's the date Sultan Abdulhamit Khan made. This date means the birth of a state that rules the world until the 20th century. An empire is the first step in becoming a nation of a tribe. History is the garden of events and people. Beautiful thinkers, beautiful thinkers, sees beauty, and delights in the life of beauty. Here we are, in the Ottoman history garden where we enter, not only the negativity, but the flowers that bloom and the scented roses. Next to the Turshuzades, who have given the decree for the office, the object which is named after the order of Padişah cannot be legitimate without hesitation against the Law. We will speak of Ebussuud, Torlak Kemal and Mithat Pasha, along with the Kabari and Lagari Pasha, who have brought destruction to the state by the Talat-Enver-Cemal trio of Piri Mehmed Pasha and Mehmed Pasha of the Bridge, along with those who have come to the confluences. Once upon a time, in our army fighting against the great states of Europe, there was a belief from the Quran that if I died, I would be martyred and killed. Murad Hüdavendigrar who really went to the Battle of Kosovo: Make me a martyr in the way of religion, and a saint in the Hereafter, and his prayer has been fulfilled. With this spirit, our glorious exodus has smiled in the face of death with enthusiasm and love that has always made Europe tremble. What emotion can be replaced by these spiritual values? No earthly emotion or desire can replace that. For centuries, it ruled three continents and led civilization to walk in the direction of faith and ideal. Let us hear from Sultan Alparslan, who spoke at Malazzirt in 1071, and spoke to us from the depths of history: we will fight only for the sake of God in religion and in the way of the state. If I'm a martyr, you bury me where I've been shot, not a step further. I will not fight as a ruler, but as a private, for religion and for the state. On his deathbed, Osman Bey, who heard this voice and founded the Ottoman State with this spirit, also instills the same spirit in his son Orhan. It's not a dry fight. No matter how modern the nation's financial batteries are armed with weapons, and whether that nation rises to the level of empire, as long as its spiritual batteries are empty, that nation is doomed to collapse. The Ottomans have left a pleasant seda in this dome. Now is the time to speak of Turkey, now is the time to make Turkey great, the time to overcome the glory of the Ottomans. If we're going to talk about the Ottomans, if we can talk about being as effective and decisive in world politics as the Ottomans, we need to obey this: thank God that the Republic of Turkey is no longer a country that is driven by our Prime Minister, not a country that is blown away by the wind, but a country that gives its country, politics, the world balance. The wind changed direction with the AK PARTY. History will make them, history will write them as it did the Ottomans.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0012par0099	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0011par0100	Mr. President, then, may I read this brief paragraph?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0012par0101	I've never done it, we don't do it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0011par0102	I want to read this.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0012par0103	Why are you asking me, you're out of time, I can't say anything.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0011par0104	At the end of the speech, I would like to sum up the Ottoman Empire as follows: Ottoman art, Ottoman art, Ottoman craft, the source of civilization, literary discipline, the Ottoman brain is right and justice, its heart is faith, its epitome is trust, its compassion, and its compassion. I cherish the great ones who founded the Ottomans, the leaders who left us the Republic, and all our sins. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0013par0108	Thank you, Mr. Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Moonslayer.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0014par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Secretary, as a scientist, has said that I have misled you or tried to mislead you. Mr. Secretary, people who are truly committed to the path of science don't knowingly mislead people, but do you know who misleads people? People with money in their eyes, ambitions in front of their head, and out of their belly, desperate people know they've been misled, and even if there's a conscience, sometimes they fool people with tears of blood. I'm not saying you did this, but don't get me wrong, but if anyone's wrong, it's them. Look, you said: "Everyone is building every nuclear power plant." No, on the contrary, all European countries are giving up the nuclear power plant within a program, trying to get these programs done in underdeveloped countries. Since I only have a minute and fifty-one seconds left, I'm not going to tell you for long, but please, invite us, let's get together, if you're busy, let's get together with our friends, and we'll tell you what's in our information range. Look, we opposition parties, of course, enjoy hitting the ruling party, and when you're wrong, we make a fuss. It's not like that. Believe me, this is not a subject for opposition. It's a matter of humanity. After a leak there, how do you say people aren't affected? For God's sake. How can you say that he went to France to visit tourists and not come to us? Don't you know about the lobbying in France, Europe? When you set up the nuclear power plant here, especially Greece, there's a nuclear plant there, especially Italy, so don't go. Are they going to make a fuss or not? I know very well that you agreed on 12.3 cents, you forgot to mention the VAT. So that's going to be even more of a number. Bring me a lower price. You say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course not, we won't, because we reject it altogether. You're saying it's low, Mr. Secretary. The financing isn't low. After our payments, 71 billion dollars, are gone, we'll make a profit. You say, "We'll make a profit, but we won't." If we invest in the sun. Look, mathematicians know that the price of production is going to go down very seriously exponentially. Please come here. The nuclear plant is dependent on the outside. We want to use native, renewable things in energy, we don't want to be dependent on the outside. We can't build a nuclear power plant, we've seized Russia because we can't do it, we've opened our palms, come here, nuclear power plant... do you think they'll teach us nuclear technology? But God must have surprised you. He said, "It's not just electricity, it's industrialization. If there's a gun behind this, we're against it. We want the development of the country, the development of both the locals and the country. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0015par0120	Your position. We close in three minutes, there's equality, you know.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0016par0123	Aye. Mr. President, dear friends, of course I can't say that anyone here is malicious, so whether it's power or opposition, we're trying to say something on behalf of our country, but if there's a technical error, we have to make it right. Friends, now, the nuclear power plant of solar power, which we plan to build for Mersin Akkuyu... Look, as someone who defends the wind, defends the sun and defends our local resources, we're not giving up any of this. We need to do every one of our local and renewable resources, and we agree on that, but Turkey's growth rate is greater than our renewable energy sources' growth rate. That's a very clear number. Now, look...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0017par0127	No, Mr. Secretary, let me prove it to you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0016par0128	Guys, I'm, uh, about... I mean, it's a dirty thing for me to say. I've been an engineer for 30 years, and I'm completely in the energy sector. Now, friends, we'll share this with you over dinner, the numbers together. What I'm trying to say is that the energy produced by a nuclear power plant has been in one year for nearly 8,000 hours. At 8,000 hours, you're going to get about 40 billion kilowatts of energy by multiplying the 5,000 megawatts of nuclear power plant. So that's about one fifth of the electricity that Turkey currently consumes. By the time this is built, we will have produced about a tenth of the electricity from this nuclear power plant. About two and a half megawatts of 10,000 windmills... Look, 10,000 are now around 6,600 in Turkey, and the equivalent of the wind energy produced from 10,000 poles is about that much. I told you, every one of them has its advantages and its disadvantages. Now, when we pay for this at 12.35 cents... When we pay from coal or sun, we guarantee a ten-year purchase in case they apply to us. It's $13.3 and they've been doing it in Germany for 800 hours with the radiation and 50 billion euros in subsidies. The number that you finance the sun is also the number that you get from the citizen through the tariff. So when you look at one end, you can't miss the other end. We are now the most suitable and cheaply priced country in Europe, and we will see the benefits together, together with our citizens. Finally, since my time is up, I'd like to put together a sum: neither our local resources nor our renewable resources will give up, we will do these things, but Turkey is growing faster. So we'll do it all together. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit01spe0018par0135	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. There are three motions for the opening of parliamentary research, and I'm having them read separately: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In our country, violence against physicians and other health workers is increasing day by day. The health of health workers has deteriorated due to widespread and irreparable acts of violence. In an effort to investigate the causes of violence, to find solutions, and to form anti-violence policies, TBM Charter 104 and 105. In accordance with the provisions, we offer and propose the opening of a parliamentary investigation. With all due respect. As the AKP government's health policy for healthcare is established, the incidents of physical, verbal, psychological and economic violence for health workers are increasing, and reports on this topic are increasingly in print and visual media. The number of health workers reported violence by applying to medical rooms and other health clinics has grown as an avalanche. Violence in health has been placed on top of the agenda of health workers and public opinion. For whatever reason, violence is not likely to be tolerated. Unfortunately, health care workers have suffered problems because the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister, at times, target health workers by misdirecting cheap policies and facts. Health workers who are subjected to violence and who live in constant fear of violence have been discouraged in their work. This has revealed a situation called "degenerative medical practices," and health workers are almost afraid to touch patients. Patients suffer from all these problems. Health workers have begun their tendency to send patients to other centers, which are difficult to treat so as not to take risks. However, the tendency to seek more consultations than other majors, more studies, and to resort to methods that push the limits of cost-benefit rates, such as the effort to secure his own defence file. So, instead of just thinking about his patient, health workers have been made to think about a lot of unnecessary things because of fear of violence. The product of the AKP's rule "Several Violence in Health has gained an important size to be the subject of scientific congress and symposiums. In fact, some of these symposiums have been attended by the Minister of Health. About a third of the patients have started to apply to emergency services as a result of the "low wage and performance practice" imposed by the AKP's government on the doctor as a health transformation. Thus, the quality of service to a patient with a real emergency has been reduced. With these applications, the patient's waiting period in emergency rooms is increasing, while the doctor's time for patients is dwindling. This is one of the most important reasons to increase violence. As a result, the Health Transformation Programme has made society sick, it seems that violence against health workers has increased. It is important that health workers' safety concerns return to society as a health issue. [[Mersin]] [[Mughle]] [[Manisa]] 4- Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] 5- Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[Ankara]] [[Ankara]] [[Aydın]] [[İstanbul]] [[Erzincan]] [[Ankara]] [[Malatya]] [[Adıyaman]] [[Antalya]] 16- Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Antalya]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] 20-Muhammet Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] 21-Ali İhsan İkturk [[Zonguldak]] [[Afyonkarahisar]] [[İstanbul]] [[Let's go.]] [[Amasya]] [[Gaziantep]] [[Niğde]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Pollution in basins such as lakes, rivers, oceans, seas, and underground waters is commonly called water pollution. The pollution of all kinds of water, as it harms all living creatures around or around the basin of pollution, prepares the environment for the extinction of various species and biological communities. Water pollution is caused by the dumping of wastewaters that contain harmful compounds into the basins without going through sufficient decontamination. Water pollution, as a global problem, is viewed as the cause of many deaths and epidemics. 14,000 people a day die directly or indirectly from diseases caused by water pollution. Moreover, studies are being made in developing and developing countries to reduce this pollution. The concept of water pollution is commonly used to describe pollution caused by the factors caused by humans. At times, however, water pollution can be produced by other creatures as a result of the decaying balances in some species. The causes of natural water pollution include volcanoes, extreme algae reproduction, winds and earthquakes. Since the early years of the Republic, Lake Küçükçekmece and its environment have remained traditionally important as a place of rest, entertainment and recursion. At the same time, this lake has become one of the county's most important symbols. The Smallflower Lake has recently begun to speak of its name with pollution. A similar situation occurred in the 1970s, in the late '90s, and in the early 2000s, and the lake became a toxic place. Over the last 20 years in the lake, it's been dangerous to sail, to eat seafood, to become health-threatening. The pollution that caused the near extinction of life in Marmara and an ecological disaster has caused panic in the county and in the national public. One of the most important reasons for pollution in the lake is that domestic and industrial waste should be left to Lake Smallmark and not be preserved in the way the lake should be, without long being subjected to decontamination. Also, there is extreme contamination in the three streams that feed the lake. The lake's ecological balance has been disrupted by years of illegal construction, undischarged domestic and industrial waste. After the Darestone Lake, perhaps the most important pollution has become the natural system that carries its burdens. The change in color in the lake, the increase in fish deaths, and the decline in bird species also frightens our citizens in the vicinity. Civil society organisations, vocational rooms and volunteers have made various attempts on the pollution of Lake Küçükçekmece, but they are insufficient. Administrators' stimulation and the necessity of more methodical, larger initiatives are clear. The warnings of vocational rooms and experts also apply. In particular, the lack of sufficient effort for the rescue of Lake Smallmarks and the lack of environmental policies are often cited as the main reasons for problems. In an effort to investigate and find solutions to the environmental problems in our country and the reasons for the pollution that occurred in the private Lake of Mosquito, the Constitution is 98. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. We respectfully submit to the opening of Parliamentary Research. [[İstanbul]] [[Inconceived]] [[40s.]] 4- Ali Riza Ozturk [[Mersin]] [[Malatya]] [[İstanbul]] 7- Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] 9- Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] [[İzmir]] 12 - Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 13- Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] 21- Ramazan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Antalya]] 23-Muhammet Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Electricity has become one of the vital needs, such as air, water, food. Electric energy should be quality, cheap, and continuous for 24 hours at home, at work, in industry. The power outages of the past few days have been overwhelming to the citizens. Since current transport lines, city grid lines, distribution transformers are so old, the transformers are burning, there are lost and fugitives, so the frequent cuts have become common. Quality energy requires quality personnel, quality materials, production and quality consumption. As in our other provinces, in our province of Sivas, private companies do the distribution work. In our districts of Divrik, Kangal, and other counties, intense power cuts have caused electronic devices to fail in industry and housing. This has already burdened the locals with financial burdens with limited income. I've been getting a lot of complaints about this. Our citizens are applying to the authorities to address the problems. However, managers answer that they have no control or directives. As for their complaints, they are directed by companies who distribute them. Our citizens would like to see an authority to address their problems. By making a legal change, the owners of the property must be given control and direction of the companies. It turns out that companies don't carry out their protocols. On the other hand, they are obliged to meet obligations such as routine maintenance, adequate technical staff, intervention in malfunctions as soon as possible. Otherwise, the cancellation of the contract and the compensation of damages should be met by interested firms. If this is not done, the responsibility will be the government's. As this will put the state in difficulty, it will legally open the way to compensation for consumers. The Constitution of the 98th, for the purpose of investigating electrical losses and fugitives, taking necessary measures, and identifying solution proposals for solutions to these problems, in order to determine the cause of the cuts that have cost our citizens financially, whether they have fulfilled their obligations in the protocol of the companies that have done financial damage and paying, distribution. And TBMM Internality 104 and 105. I respectfully request and request the opening of Parliamentary Research on the basis of its provisions. 04.10.2011 1) Malik Ecder Özdemir [[Sivas]] 2) Mighty Skymen Reminder [[İstanbul]] 3) Ramadan Kerim Özkan [[Burdur]] [[Inconceived]] [[İstanbul]] 6) Mehmet Sevki Kulkuloğlu [[Kayseri]] [[Tekirdağ]] 8) Ferit Mevlüt Aslanoğlu [[İstanbul]] [[40s.]] 10) Ahmet Ihsan Kalkavan [[Samsun]] [[Aydın]] [[Antalya]] [[Erzincan]] [[Adıyaman]] [[& & & & &gt; &gt; ……]] 16) Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu [[İstanbul]] [[İzmir]] [[Mughle]] [[Ankara]] [[Antalya]] 21) Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya [[Bartin]] Mr. President- it has been presented to your knowledge. The motions will be placed on the agenda, and talks on whether or not the parliamentary investigation should be opened will be held at the appropriate time. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly A delegation of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Foreign Affairs Commission is envisioned to conduct an official visit to Kosovo, in response to the invitation of the Kosovo Parliament's Foreign Relations Commission President Albin Kurti to the event. The visit of the delegation to Kosovo is part of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In accordance with the clause, it is submitted to the approval of the General Assembly. OK, VURAL- The decision is enough... I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0018par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough of a decision in the vote of the office. Now, I'm going to put the notice back to your votes, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions: those who agree... those who refuse... there is enough of a decision, there is enough. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: 26.01.2012 Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council cannot meet on Thursday 26,01,2012 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Constitution. By İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz and his friends, on 4 November 2011, Turkey was elected President of the Grand National Assembly. The Council Research Proposal, which was given to investigate what was wrong with the Bosphorus bridge, was suggested to be taken ahead of other motions to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly (119 row) and to be read in the presentations on Thursday (26,01,2012) in the same date as their talks. The first statement in favour of the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is in İstanbul MP Ali Özgündüz. Here you go, Mr. Original.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0019par0019	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, when I begin my words, I salute you all. Dear friends, you know the third bridge these days is the agenda. We submitted a question motion on 26 July 2011, asking Mr. Transport Minister to answer it, and so far, unfortunately, our question has not been answered. There are environmental impact assessments of this issue, and what positive, negative contributions do they have to Istanbul? Has there been any research on these matters? Why was the High Planning Board and State Planning Agency disabled in this third bridge tender? We've asked such questions as, "Where will we find the source of this when our country has a very serious business deficit?" But since so far we haven't been able to answer this question, I've made a pledge today in favour of our group proposal to open a parliamentary investigation into this matter. Dear friends, I'm going to give you some statistics on this bridge. After building the first bridge, the number of vehicles crossing the bridge increased by 200 per cent, while the number of passengers moving only increased by 4 per cent. Again, after the second bridge was built, the number of vehicles increased by 1,180 per cent, while the number of passengers increased only 170 per cent. So it shows that bridges are more likely to be facing vehicle traffic, not facing passenger traffic. Again, this bridge is intended to be used in transit transport, so it will not contribute to any positive improvement in Istanbul's domestic traffic. This bridge will also lead to Istanbul's unplanned growth. Istanbul is a city that must be kept in 12-13 million, according to the Metropolitan Municipality's prediction, but with this bridge, the population can reach 20 million. As beloved journalist Metin Münir said in one article, the terrible scenario is 23 million. The population of Istanbul can be raised to 23 million so that it can be provided with this bridge. In this case, Istanbul, which sustains Turkey, goes under. Therefore, dear friends, it is imperative that experts be given the opinion of whether the route of this bridge is very well calculated, whether it is the right choice for environmental and urbanism. Dear MPs opposed this bridge, the Undersecretary of State Planning, on the grounds that Istanbul would not be the answer to the traffic problem last January. Again, the highways are bound to be reported in this direction by independent transport and urbanism experts. According to the State Planning Agency's report, 99 per cent of the traffic passing through the Bosporus Bridge is traffic from the city and local cities, or neighbouring cities, and transit traffic is only around 1.1 per cent. In this case, the third bridge planned to be held at the Strange-Poyrazköy location will have no relaxing effect on domestic traffic; and since the rail system is not foreseen, unfortunately, it will have no contribution to the overall transport problem. On January 11, 2010, Undersecretary of the State Planning Agency Kemal Miningoglu sent a letter to the owner of the project's highways, stressing what the institution finds disabled and incomplete, asking that the project be evaluated once again. However, Mr. Buli Yıldırım, our Minister of Transport, has said, "We intend to tender it within this year by not listening to this warning from the DPT." He said, "It's been tendered, you know, no bid has been made." And now Mr. Secretary says we're going to build this bridge with our resources. Dear friends, is Istanbul now the first priority of the earthquake, or is it the third bridge? Please, I mean put your hand on your conscience, think. If an earthquake occurs in Istanbul, hundreds of thousands of people will die and the city will collapse completely. God forbid, if such a situation were to happen, Istanbul would lift Turkey to its feet, but all Turkey would not be able to raise Istanbul. So let's spend the resources you're going to save here, the resources you're going to save for the bridge, to fight the earthquake, to make arrangements for the earthquake. I think it's more for the good of the country and Istanbul.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0020par0031	How do you solve traffic?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0019par0032	Dear friends, how do we relax the trip? Look, there's a way to relax traffic. We, look, we have to do something with the rail system. You need to use sea transport as an alternative means of transportation. There is a sea in the middle of Istanbul, and there is a Bosphorus. So let's use sea transport, let's use floating viaducts. It's in the Republican People's Party's election declaration, the floating viaducts, the rail system. The improvement of new bridges, the expansion of existing bridges, can contribute to traffic in this way. Let's make a subway; it will contribute more to traffic with less cost, but if you call it a priority, for the people of Istanbul, it's not a bridge, it's not even transportation, it's an earthquake, it's an earthquake, it's expected. So let's take precautions for the earthquake first. Friends, I mean, it would be a disaster, God forbid. So it's expected that all scientists say, "Sir, there's going to be an earthquake of Marmara. " Let's take precautions against that, where hundreds of thousands of people will be harmed, thousands of buildings will be destroyed, bridges will be damaged." The third bridge isn't our top priority. Through Poyrazköy-Garipçe, look, you're expanding this city to the north. So it's going to be a very serious population growth; it's going to be 20 to 23 million people. Billions of dollars' worth of rants will be provided. So to the north, right now, the forests of Istanbul's drinking water basins, green areas, the lungs of Istanbul will be destroyed. Come on, don't. So it's bad for Istanbul and bad for the country. So we say, dear friends, let's do a congressional investigation on this. So the highest body, the High Assembly, shall discuss this matter with experts at length. Let's see, if it's useful, let's set the course properly, let's do it, but if it's not, let's come up with alternative solutions. And for that, we'll need a congressional investigation. Well, we're filing a parliamentary inquiry motion, so please... now that you've asked for a counterproposal, what's it against? Why shouldn't it be investigated? I mean, there's no point in saying we're going to do it in private when Istanbul has very important problems. I mean, where are you gonna do it? You're 80 billion dollars short. Where will you find the source? So you're going to bring a load from the top?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0021par0037	You opposed both bridges.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0019par0038	Sir, look, we're not against the bridge. Look, before we do any scientific research...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0021par0039	You opposed both bridges.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0022par0040	Unscientific installations.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0023par0041	Do it, do the fourth, do the fifth!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0024par0042	The State Planning Agency opposes the valuable lawmakers, the Highways oppose, the CED Environment Evaluation Report is not received, is that possible? I mean, is that an understanding?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0022par0043	There's no scientific context.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0025par0044	You opposed both bridges.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0024par0045	I mean, we're looking into it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0026par0046	Mr. New, please...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0024par0047	We're looking into it. You, look, all the writer-commercial friends who are interested in this matter have written a variety of articles against it. Mehvesh is your home, sir, Metin Münir has written about it many times. So, come, dear friends, let's open up a parliamentary investigation of this matter and establish the priorities of Istanbul. You're always looking to give birth to a runt here because you're busy. It's a shame, it's a sin. There's talk of $350 billion in rants, which, as a result, will be born with the third bridge, predicted to be created. But experts, occupational rooms, associations, NGOs all object. Therefore, I salute you all as to whether the construction of this third bridge is necessary and what kind of problems it may bring, according to the Articles 104 and 105, in accordance with the Articles 104 and 105, to vote in accordance with the opening of the Parliament's investigation.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0027par0052	Thank you, Mr. Original. Against the Republican People's Party proposal, Mr. Nusret Bayraktar, Rize MP.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0055	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, the Republican People's Party has made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group in the face of the adoption of the group's proposal today, and I salute you all. Istanbul had five important problems that stood out in 1994. On that day, the first problem was dehydration, the second problem was corruption, the third problem was pollution, air pollution, the fourth problem was warped construction, and the fifth problem was traffic. Now, the four important subroutines that we've been talking about since 94 are a little bit behind schedules. The first problem is traffic and transportation. Question one...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0029par0057	The first problem is the earthquake.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0058	Excuse me. Look, I listened with respect to the end.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0030par0059	You're giving false information.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0060	Please excuse me, I've listened to the end with respect, so please listen with respect. Now, Istanbul... yes, the subject of the earthquake and the earthquake is very important, I agree. And it's been a long time since we've done our work. Currently, the work and new legal arrangements of the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism will be done to prepare for the transformation and earthquake with decisions we will make together. Sadly, in measures that must be taken against distorted structures, the future will take over the houses that you have. To transform, you have to sacrifice, not scare the citizens, not scare them. A bilateral agreement with the citizen is the duty of local government and central governments to create a habitable city without causing a citizen's harm, and that's what we're trying to do.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0030par0062	Give an example of one in 17 years.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0063	But since Istanbul's number one problem is traffic, there are now more than 3 million vehicles in Istanbul under the current conditions. The Marmaray Project, which has been imagined for a hundred and fifty years, has only been laid down in 2007, 2013. It's about the transition of the tires and the rail system. One of the reasons for delaying the tender of this bridge is the relief of traffic circulation in Istanbul's current business, which passes north with the addition of the rail system and not just the tire wheel system. International, it's now said 1.2%, and in Turkey, which is growing at this rate, I want you to think about Istanbul's traffic and international transit transport, not international, but national transit transport, ten years later in Turkey, which has grown 7.8%. I didn't see a single truck on the way from Istanbul to Ankara when we came to power in 2002, but now, especially because of the trucks -- two comings -- two comings -- look at the traffic from Izmit to Gebze, north of Izmit. What happens in ten years?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0030par0065	Wrong city policy. You're trying to right your own wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0066	If we don't lay the groundwork today, if we don't develop preparations for the third bridge -- look, there's been a limitation in your life -- who will lift the burden of this bridge when there is maintenance for the 1st Strait Bridge? When will Marmaray be in the ministry and respond to current traffic growth?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0030par0067	You've been running Istanbul for 17 years.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0031par0068	Mr. Eyeborn, please...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0069	Now, I'll give you a brief piece of information on the North Marmara Project in the amount of time I've had. The criteria for the project are: 6 alternative projects have been prepared. The environmental dimension, water and forest resources are protected, air and noise pollution, historical structures and sites, operating costs, fuel, amortism and labor, compliance with other traffic systems, harmonisation of current situation and development plans, reducing traffic loads, contributing to the road network, the impact on new industrial and settlement areas, the impact on publicisation and land use and construction costs, and the following criteria of the six routes are appropriate. So the route is that it does not affect air and noise pollution, which does the least harm in the preservation of water resources and forest areas, but it is too small to affect routes, historical structures and sites, which will help reduce the city's traffic loads, help regional networks and regional development in the region. This is not just Turkey's internal project. In the context of the Silk Road, we need to assume that Europe will be a national and international bridge linking Asia, and the CED report on these issues is said not to be received. But the highway isn't really against the project. While working on details in the road construction process, they are also working on the 17/7/2008 date and 26939 CED regulations, which have been stated to be not subject to the provisions of CED regulations in accordance with Article 3/39, which may now be subject to a loan with the international construction-development model.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0032par0073	But the source said, Mr. Secretary, what will happen?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0074	In the phase of alternative operations of all highway projects, decisions are made by all institutions and institutions concerned by our institution -- governorships, municipalities, military units, municipal environment and forest managers, cultural and natural assets protection boards, Nature Protection and National Parks General Directorate, other institutions like this are present in the highway corridor and are asked about the view of all planned structures and assets, and after the agreement has been reached -- the North Marmara Highway is the finalisation of the project on the third bridge crossing. Forests such as Belgrade forests, Fatih forests, and Polonezköy National Park, which are environmentally important, and the preservation of historical structures...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0033par0075	How will you protect the water basins? You're misinformation the community!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0076	...as much as a tree to be cut down in these areas, coal furnaces and minefields, destroyed areas, are based on a large amount of wooding work in these areas, such as going over the areas. Dear friends, this route, which has been chosen, has actually been accepted within the framework of alternatives, which are most appropriate under the current circumstances, and has been asked to extend the terms of the tender and the bids of those who have entered into the tender, when the company's proposal has a little bit more important to add to the rail system. Whether it will be from a national source or a loan again in the near future, it will not be clear, but it will cause a budget deficit and a current deficit. It is necessary to ask those who say. The most important thing that causes the budget deficit is our external dependence on energy costs, and we're bringing up HES projects -- $25 billion -- and HES is polluting the environment to get back the exchange rate that we've been giving about energy over 40 billion dollars a year. Of course, every investment has its pluses and its minuses. Since technological developments and world developments are progressing in this dimension, we can't do without using the phone, we can't do without using the car, we can't do without using the electricity, we can't do without using the roads, we can't do without the car, so we have to make an arrangement that will do the least damage to the environment, which will respond to the needs of the people. Or the time lost in Istanbul by traffic jams, the impact on pollution...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0034par0078	Look, bridge means traffic.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0079	And when you think about the money that we've given to oil sources that we call externally dependent on, here's the current explanation of the issues that come up here. Besides, Turkey's development and development should not be forgotten that we have reached a level that can overcome this system.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0034par0080	Congressman, even the General Manager of the Highways says, "Take another look." He says, please...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0081	It's being evaluated.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0035par0082	What scientists are you judging?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0083	Look, there's talk of unplanned growth and uncontrollable development. There are objections to decisions made by both central administration -- Article 183 of the Turkish Penal Code, the powers we give to the ministries and the audits of the ministries -- and there are objections to project decisions taken and taken by all political parties by members of parliament, as well as by the powers and audits we give to local governments. When you don't do your rounds, of course, you get an unfair rate in the area. The only way to reduce the intensity of Istanbul is to encourage the return of the people of Anatolia, who couldn't get enough where they were born, not by migrating to Istanbul, but also by investing in Anatolia.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0035par0085	Why haven't you done it in ten years? Now you've come to your senses?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0086	The whole world knows what the AK PARTY is doing about opening universities, building roads, building hospitals, building schools, building tunnels, and investing where our people could be happy where they were born. We, on the one hand the third Bosphorus bridge, on the other hand the Marmaray, on the other the rail system, on the other the tunnels of Istanbul, on the other the north-south link -- the Ovit Tunnel, on the other the 15km approach, linking the north to Mardine and the Middle East -- have brought Turkey up in the world literature for transport arteries. It's air transport, it's done by sea roads, it's done by land roads, but it reminds us that we have to make investments that will respond to the future Turkey, which will grow, so...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0036par0089	Leave the general, talk about the third bridge in Istanbul!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0028par0090	I salute you all by saying that we're against the issue of today's agenda.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0036par0092	Why are you against him? Let them investigate!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0037par0093	Thank you, Mr. Flagtar. In favour of the Republican People's Party group proposal, İstanbul MP Sebahat Tuncel. Here you are, Mr. Tuncel.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0038par0096	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the Republican People's Party's motion on behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0039par0097	You've made an environmental plan, you're leaving. You've been running it for 17 years...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0040par0098	We're not leaving, no, change...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0041par0099	Mr. Eyidoğan and Mr. Bayraktar, you can go out and talk if you want, I can't hear Mr. Hatibin's voice because of you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0042par0100	In fact, we have already expressed our approach to the third bridge in Istanbul as the Peace and Democracy Party. The third bridge to solve Istanbul's traffic problem is not the third bridge, but, in fact, we have expressed that a perspective on Istanbul's traffic issue would be more realistic. In this regard, the Republican People's Party's research motion is important, but it's not clear what the outcome will be, because the Prime Minister made a statement the other day, you know, since there is no firm on the third bridge, they said they would pay for it from the state budget. So there's a situation like this that's past Skopkudar, where we don't know what our discussion is going to do here, but we still consider it an opportunity to inform the public, to express why we're against it. Now, when we look at the traffic problem in Istanbul, the land transport total is 88.3%, the sea transport is 3.3%, the rail system is 8.4%, so we're not very alternative. There's no way we're going to solve the traffic problem by building the third bridge. As Congresswoman from the ruling party just said, right, in the event of Istanbul development, we have to think about the future, from traffic to pollution, we have to think about everything, but the point that we're looking at is the window that we're looking at. The AKP's government is always looking through the rant window, so it's looking at how we can get a runt in all the areas. It's always a disaster from that point of view, and we're faced with this kind of destruction in the name of humanity and in the name of nature. Congressmans, when we look at the process of formation of states, we see that everything begins with the sorting. One of the reorganised areas, according to the categorized categories, is nature, which modernism almost assumes as the enemy and has no hesitation in mediating. While nature is being mediated by human beings as a resource that capitalism can organize itself, one ignores that it destroys its own future with its own hands and ignores a sustainable life policy. In fact, the AKP's government also expressed its best to make it invisible here in fancy words. Of course, we agree on the resolution of Istanbul's transport problem; the question of how to resolve it is important. Whether we need a third bridge or other possibilities, that's what we're going to do. Before we say it, we're going to have an argument about what is its contribution to nature, what are its harms, what are its contributions to humanity; we'd expect it to be discussed, but how can we get a runt from here without these being done, especially in an approach that suggests the issue of how to create new Rant spaces for the confederates. We, the Peace and Democracy Party, once again, want to point out why we oppose the third bridge: the main reason for this is that we, as the Peace and Democracy Party, view nature as a right subject, not as an area of nature, but as a fundamental part of our life as a right subject, so we have to deal with everything that we do in the 21st century, regardless of whether or not we are going to be able to break the ecological balance of nature. That's why we're going against the third bridge in Istanbul. That's why we object to having HES in our streams. The Brotherhood of the Creeks Platform is doing very well in this regard. HES is a negative project to take away our living spaces, although it is presented as a very important project for energy sources. Let me tell you again, we object to the construction of dams under the name of security. If it has to be done, it has to be in favor of humanity. One of the issues that we first object to about the third bridge is our concern that the course of choice, the destruction of species, will seriously derail the ecological balance. The area planned for the third bridge today includes important forest areas, water basins, dunes, dams, dams, nature parks, and a holistic ecological area, consisting of numerous endemics, different species of plants and animals that don't live anywhere else. With this third bridge being built, these areas will be looted. Second, the heat island effect. Today, an account that those who built the bridge missed while doing financial and sociological calculations is the heat island effect of high-scale land use and transportation projects in Istanbul, and the destruction of the natural environment and the new constructions that they encouraged. The destruction of forest areas, covered with natural vegetation, and unmade open spaces, will further increase the effects of heat island, which has a cooling effect on the city's micro climate. The Third Bridge Project, which is supposed to be built in the Bosphorus, and we leave you to appreciate how much the heat island effect on Istanbul will endure, given that it will soon create its own traffic and increase its exhaust emissions and trigger new roads and building construction. The third issue is the destruction of water supply. The main links of the Third Bosphorus, which is located in the watering basins, will leave Istanbul's key drinking reserves, Omarli, Elmalı, Darık, Alibeyköy, Büçükçekekmece, Sazlidere and Pakos basins under heavy construction pressure. In the Omarli basin, between 1935 and 1975, the population rose from around 4,000 to about three times more than 10,000 in 40 years, but after 90, especially after the TEM highway effect, it shows how much population raids are vital for Istanbul, with an increase of more than 50 times the population. How much natural space is going to disappear, and that's an important point of appeal from our point of view. The 150-metre officialisation process, considered in bridge and connective routes, will wipe out the entire area, containing 680 hectares of natural sites, 931 hectares of agriculture, and more than 2.5 million hectares of forest. Congressmans, even when you think about these things, we can all answer the question where the third bridge is wrong and how quickly the project should be abandoned, and if we are going to make such fancy remarks about it, we can all do a new search, but here we can find an answer to the question of where the AKP's power will really be, especially I did it. The approach, like the one that he thought was going to solve for Istanbul, is going to make it even more heavy, rather than to solve the problems of Istanbul. We think that the AKP government should return because not only the AKP people live in this country, or only those who will take advantage of the third bridge in this country, or those who will get a rune from it, are the problem of all those who live in Istanbul. Therefore, the Istanbulians must be questioned about this. If the AKP government says I'm going to do it, I'm going to do it. If he says he can do one of the methods he's done so far, he can ask Istanbulers, he can referenda, Istanbulians want the third bridge, they don't want it. At the very least, responsibilities can be shared. As I just said before, before I started, it's a matter of how effective it will be for us to talk. The government spokespeople have also expressed that they will say no to this motion of research, which seems to be a numerical majority, but once again we would like to make a note of this project in the world and Turkey, especially in Turkey, that it will disrupt the ecological balance of Istanbul, which will not do humanity any good, it will create new problems, it will take away our areas of life, and it must be abandoned as soon as possible. We, at least in our own way, will express our objections to this project, especially the chosen route, at every opportunity. As the Peace and Democracy Party, I support the CHP Group's motion and salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0043par0114	Thank you, Mr. Tuncel. The last word against the Republican People's Party Group's proposal is from İstanbul MP Erol Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0044par0118	Mr. President, dear members, I salute you all. I have made a pledge against the motion to open a parliamentary investigation into questions regarding the Third Bosphorus, given by the Republican People's Party, and the solutions. Dear friends, you know, 12 days ago in Istanbul, with our Prime Minister's participation in one of the most important projects in the world, the first welding ceremony was held. As our Prime Minister stressed, the Marmaray Project is a world project beyond the Istanbul project. While we still feel the excitement of such a project, the fact that we met here today with a motion to investigate a negative approach to the third bridge planned for Istanbul has upset us as well as our entire nation. I'd like to express it from here, without twisting or twisting my words, without resorting to hints, indirect expressions. Those who did not understand Istanbul, Turkey, and Turkey, are still those whose thoughts remain in the 1940s, 1960s, at best in the 1990s, even if their bodies remain in 2012. Where Turkey comes from, at the level of Istanbul, how do you get to the third airport...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0045par0120	Tell me what this has to do with science, what this has to do with urban planning.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0044par0121	...the rail system, which runs through the bottom of the sea, requires hundreds of miles of rail systems on the European and Asian coast, as well as the third bridge, if technology-supported traffic management systems. I believe that no one with a conscience and a witness will be able to say that the third bridge is not needed for Istanbul. Oh, the way this works, the route, the way it's done, the debate is one thing. That's what we think, you think differently, others think differently. As a result, by combining needs and possibilities, there is a way to resolve and proceed to the implementation stage. This process is largely a technical process. Respectful of criticism and arguments regarding this process, but no doubt leaving the last word to the responsible is the best way. However, when we look at the reason for the research proposal, we find a text that smells of a sense of unfavorableness, where only negative views are mentioned. Taking a different view of the subject... is a clear picture of how we can stir up, draw a set in front of the wheel of this project? We all know you've done enough damage to this nation in the past, enough to darken the future of our people. I'm sorry, folks, but we're not gonna let the same freak go on anymore, not our nation, not ours. As the first bridge was built in spite of you, just as the second bridge was built in spite of you, as many services in Istanbul and Turkey were done in spite of you, so will the third bridge be built and served in the service of our nation. My dear friends, the research motion given by our CHP MP friends has shown that the third bridge is trying to be seen as an alternative to the rail system. Istanbul, on the other hand, has a truly historically important rail system mobilisation. Marmaray is an important element of the rail system project. Modernizing the suburban lines is an important element of the rail system project. Metro and tram lines are key elements of the rail system project.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0045par0123	You didn't finish the tracks in five years.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0044par0124	The Eagle-Kadıköy subway will soon be in service, the same way. The railway system in Istanbul, from 45km to 78km, will reach 213km next year, and will reach 640km in 2023, so the third bridge is not the alternative to the rail system. On the contrary, it is one of the complementary elements of Istanbul transport, which requires an integrated solution.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0045par0125	How are you going to integrate into the bridge 50 kilometers up?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0044par0126	The objections to the research proposal are a product of an approach that does not realize that the Istanbul transport problem needs integrated solutions via air, the rail system, the sea, the land road. Moreover, our approach to solving transportation problems is not only in Istanbul. We are on our way with an understanding of a solution that surrounds Turkey's 81 provinces, 780,000 square kilometers of land. We activated airports, double roads, fast trains and all other instruments, and started the fast and comfortable travel and transport period in Turkey. Ankara-Eskişehir, Ankara-Konya I ask you to please listen to the satisfaction of our citizens traveling on the high-speed railway lines. When the construction of Ankara-Sivas and Eskişehir-Istanbul lines and other fast train projects are completed, believe me, the Turkish people's view of the country will change. Of course, we don't claim that everything is perfect and we've never been, but we have the right to expect those who criticize us to serve this country and the nation as much as we do. It is our right to expect those who criticize us to present projects to serve this country and the nation at least as much as we do. Among those who criticize us, we should be entitled to expect them to express their original proposals, their proposals, as well as their negativeness and shortcomings. Dear friends, as a result, we have to implement the third bridge, along with the rail system projects, land roads, and naval projects, to solve Istanbul's transportation problem. None of the criticism expressed in the motion to investigate this matter is insurmountable. Hopefully, when our friends who oppose this project come to life on the third bridge, and travel through it with joy and comfort, these days will come to their minds and they will be a bit embarrassed. With these thoughts, we are against the motion to investigate, and once again, I salute the General Assembly, and pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0046par0132	Thank you, Mr. Rock. Mr. Eyeborn, you've entered the system. What is it?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0047par0134	Sir...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0046par0135	No, you say it first, I'll open it later.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0047par0136	There's some information, it's not being given. There's this thing called the Istanbul Environment Plan, they built it themselves.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0046par0137	You're talking about it. Now, if you'd like to propose your own research...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0047par0138	So there's no bridge, no crazy projects.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0046par0139	Excuse me for a minute, I...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0047par0140	We have information now. Disrupting information.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0048par0141	Mr. President, there is no such procedure, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0046par0142	Now, look, Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0047par0143	The Republican People's Party does not prevent crossing the Bosphorus, nor does it oppose it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0046par0144	Wait a minute... okay. Reverend, wait a minute...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0049par0145	He can't say anything he wants here, it's all a matter of rules, sir. It's all a matter of rules.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0047par0146	Cheap polemics are being done.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0049par0147	Doesn't the congressman have the right to respond to what's said there, to the speech of a fellow congressman?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0050par0148	Mr. President, Mr. Congressman, the Republican People's Party is an obstacle to transition.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0051par0149	I got it, I got it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0050par0150	...he defended our party's non-party view, twisted the issue, so Mr. Eyeborn asked for a word.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0051par0151	No, no, I understand that, Mr. Slim, but I was going to say something else. Now, you said that you wanted to share information about your group's group proposal, and I will promise you, Mr. Tanal, that is to say, according to the 60th article that I've said before, I have a general attitude towards the abuse of a few words from me. If it's the same subject, please leave. I mean, we can't solve this if we go one after the other like this. Under normal circumstances -- Mr. Slim knows; see, he asked for it, not according to 60, but 69 -- it's out of the question that I operate 60, because it's your group's suggestion. For him, I'll give it to Mr. Eyidoğan one minute now. Mr. Tanal, I can't give it to you. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0052par0157	Mr. President, the Republican People's Party is not opposed to crossing both sides of Istanbul, which is approaching 15 million people. They're trying to make cheap non-scientific polemics. In 2006, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality collected hundreds of scientists, worked for three and a half years, and did the Environmental Order Plan, which was the constitution of Istanbul. Hundreds of people worked day and night in this Environment Plan, and millions of dollars were spent. Very valuable information has been revealed. There are no third bridges or crazy projects in this Environment Plan. This plan suggested that Istanbul's settlement be extended to the east-west side of Istanbul, with an addition of 15,379 in the vicinity of Ispartakule, Silivri and Tuzla, which are recommended for 44,851 hectares. This Environment Order Plan is the constitution of Istanbul, which the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality unanimously approved in 2009. Now they don't have this bridge. We're not against the third bridge. We want this to be discussed under scientific criteria.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0053par0160	Now look, Mr. Eyeborn, you've given your information. That's why you were given this offer. Now the High Council will decide whether to accept it or not, so...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0052par0162	They're ruining their own actions, isn't that right?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0053par0163	What am I supposed to do? I can't make it right now. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Charter, which I'm going to study and process.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0054par0168	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit02spe0053par0169	I'm going to vote for you. I'm going to call the number of decisions. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0053par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Third Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Republican People's Party Group's proposal had not been reached enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted, there is enough to decide. On the agenda, we move to the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From the Commissions. We will begin talks with Ankara MP Sinan Aydın Aygün, who is ranked in the 1st place in the Czech Law to change the Law and Ankara MP Ali Riza Özturk, who is in the 1st place in the Czech Law; Minister of Mersin Ali Riza Özturk, Minister of the Czech Law of 5941; Proposition of the Law and the Justice Commission Report. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The commission report was printed and distributed with the number of 137 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan... No. Other groups?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0055par0016	Ali Riza Ozturk will speak on all of them.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0053par0017	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Mersin MP Ali Riza Ozturk. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0056par0020	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, a bill and proposal is coming to them in order to heal the wounds of our people who were separated from their homes on the winter apocalypse because of their unrequited checks, or because of the threat of prison. There's a bill coming in on behalf of the government. As the Republican People's Party Group, we, Mersin MP, and my friends, and Ankara MP Sinan Aygün have proposed the law. (x) 137 S. Numbered Basmaz is included in the report. My dear friends, as the current Czech Law 5941 was discussed in 2009, we, the Republican People's Party, stated that it is not the answer to the fact that the verb of mischaracterizing the check as a crime to ensure that the record of the unregistered economy is recorded, that the check is laundered, that the check is prevented from being used in the money laundering and the financing of terrorism. We said it was unacceptable for both criminal justice and modern criminal law to be considered an independent type of crime when it comes to misdemeanor checks. We've stated that there is no basis for any responsibility that criminal law is based on the general theory of crime for misdemeanor checks. We said it was an effective, correct solution and way to secure trust in the check, to ensure that the check is a reliable payment tool, and to remove the fact that the check has been bounced so that the check can be collected. Instead of increasing the responsibility of banks, the government has been tried, but has never solved the problems, and has given up the insistence of a punishment that has not been implemented in modern criminal law and in any other modern country -- positive, my dear friends -- today, two years after passing today. We, the Republican People's Party, have expressed this problem at every stage in the 23rd century, on every occasion on this platform; during budget talks, we have spoken outside the agenda, and all of our dear friends have expressed it. In 2009, as Law 5941 was discussed, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Canikli, Deputy Director of Justice and Development Party, especially Mr. Canikli of the Prison Party, I have seen a number of demands for the removal of the prison sentence in the case of procedural checks, which I have seen from time to time, have also come to the agenda. But I'm sorry, dear friends, if you want to destroy such a successful system, you can bring these proposals, if you want to bring them to the ground, so you can bring the motion to remove the prison sentence, which means that the removal of the prison sentence means that the future check system, the $265 billion trade, the exchange -- let's not say completely -- is to be eliminated. It's an incredible blow to business and economics. In 2009, when we argued that the verb of pro bono check was not a crime, really, we tried to hit the economy according to Mr. Canikli. It goes on, Mr. Canikli, let's not say the only reason, but the most important factor is no doubt the prison sentence behind it. But my dear friends, the check is a precious bond, so it's a bond. Therefore, no prison sentence in any country in the world has been prescribed to guarantee your collection in a bond or in a court order. The word "penetration" is actually the equivalent of a verb that is a crime. So I think it's a good thing that Mr. Canikli here's views, the Justice and Development Party Group, have really given up on the government's insistence and have been reversed from the practice of procedural checks. I'd like to thank the Justice and Development Party Group and the Government for that. My dear friends, when it really is no longer a criminal act of mischarging a bad check... So the discussion of who is the Czech victim, the creditors, the debtors, has been implemented a lot. Now, look, there was an economy in Turkey until 1985, but there was no law called "the Czech Law." Well, didn't this work out, the economy didn't work out, when there was no Czech law until 1985? There was a check at the time, but there was no Czech Law, there was a check, but it was then punished for fraud in Article 503 of Turkish Penal Code 765. Later, in 1985, a law was brought in about the protection of check bearers, and here a sentence of one year to five years in prison was prescribed for the person who committed the verb "discharged checks" with the 16th article. So, my dear friends, have they been able to prevent or reduce the crime of misdemeanour? No. Or was the check prevented from funding terrorism? No. Is this punishment getting in the way of money laundering? It didn't pass. With each passing day the crime of misappropriate checks has increased and the problem has been forced to make a new arrangement in 2003. And that's the same reason: they had to remove this direct prison sentence because the number of unresolved and unpaid checks increased rapidly, the fact that the original criminal courts have committed crimes to misfire almost 60 percent of the workload, limiting the use of cheques, reducing interest and trust in the check, turning into a total social disaster. There was a new arrangement in 2003, where a fine was fined as much as a check. Look, my dear friends, I'm stressing that the reason that a direct prison sentence was lifted in 2003 was because the government brought up a total social disaster in 2003, in which heavy penalties for misdemeanor checks limited the use of checks, reduced interest and confidence in the check. Therefore, Law 4814 provided a fine of just as much as the price of a check, which would be reduced to a prison sentence if it was not paid. And then, in 2009, the search for solutions continued, of course, when we couldn't get the system to sit right... and again, with the 5th article of Law 5941, we've prepared a fine for the person who caused the check to fail in a thousand or five hundred days. So the criminal fine in the previous law went on. The fine, which turned into a prison sentence when it wasn't paid, was sustained exactly. Here today, really, the essence of this bill, of these law proposals, is that the misdemeanor of the free-of-charge check-making elephant be removed as a crime and the responsibility increased to banks a little bit more. Isn't there a flaw in this bill? Of course, there are many flaws to this bill, but I'm hoping that these flaws will be met. At this point, it is important to think seriously about whether it is now true to predict a criminal responsibility for a bad check, whether it is really necessary to maintain criminal provisions that are being watered down in some sense. Look, even if he's paid for pro bono checks, even if he's paid for it, even if it's final, it's fined. Which means that the lawmaker doesn't really care about this punishment, my dear friends. You can't make a charge to ensure that the check is bound, that it will be collected. Well, then, there's a court order that's stronger than a check. So, do you put a criminal charge behind him in order to ensure the collection of the court-ordered creditors? There's Bono. What's a check? In the Turkish Trade Law, the check is not the means to pay for a future trade. It's not the means of an instalment transaction. This is the basic function of the Turkish Trade Law, which is the payment of the check. In return for this check, the money is in the bank, go buy it. Well, when the check is cut in the future, the porter who gets the check on the day he gets the check actually gets the check knowing that the check doesn't pay because there's an advanced date on the check. So why is he taking the advance check? He gets this: when the day comes, when the date comes, he gets it in the hope that that check will be rewarded. And what gives birth to that trust? Is it the true trust in commercial life that gives birth to that trust, or is it artificial, artificial trust? So there's a trust that cheats on a check bearer? Here's what makes that trust, my friends: The punishment you plant on the back of the check is artificial trust. The Czech porter gets that check by creating that artificial trust, but on the date he gets it, he knows there's no payback, and he's taking it knowingly. Thus, he does not actually take that check as a check, which is defined in the Turkish Trade Law. So you have a check for something that needs to be used as a bond. So this is not paid when the day comes; social disasters are increasing as the day passes. So, in fact, the main issue here, in my understanding, is whether or not we need a separate Czech Law? That's actually what we need to discuss. So there was no separate Czech law until 1985, but the economy went smoothly. Now, can we really turn the check into a tool, a function of pre-sale, in the sense that it is arranged in the Trade Law? Well, we can, but in my opinion, there's no need for a separate Czech Law. By taking some of the regulations in the Czech Law into the Turkish Trade Law, we can very well resolve this. The current Turkish Trade Law has a check between 691 and 736, which I believe will take effect next July. The Chamber of Commerce Act, adopted by our parliament, also included a check of 44 articles among its Articles 780-823. The most accurate regulation in terms of trade law is to remove the Czech Law by taking some of the provisions related to this check into the Trade Law. My dear friends, on the other hand, the fact that this misdemeanor check junkie phenomenon has been organized as an independent crime, the most important consequence in the past is that it does not reduce the fact of a bad check, but it increases the opposite. Why is that? That's because -- and I just told you -- it's because of this artificial trust environment. When it's not a crime of unrequited checks, it's that the pregnant person who sees the check as just a payment tool and is more careful not to accept payment with a check as part of the established business relationship, is able to accept the check in an artificial confidence of the presence of a misdemeanor check, and thus become much easier to accept the check in payments to him -- if I'm right -- to be deceived -- by ill-intentioned junkies. This resulted in the fact that the check, in a functional sense, replaces the bond and is used as a credit tool, not as a payment tool. The current Law No. 5941 is protected in the creation of a misdemeanor check charge, as it is called in practice. This further cemented the check, particularly the application that replaces the bond. In fact, in today's application, in practice, in practice, in functional terms, there's no difference between a check and a bond. As I was saying earlier, a porter who received the check dated in the future is aware that there is no immediate compensation, and he's taking it on purpose. Again, in the Turkish Trade Law, the payment tool, which is considered a pure argument, has been tried to load the check, which is a private law instrument, which cannot be expected of it. And he couldn't handle the weight of that cheque. As a result, the concepts, such as the current Law of 5941, the non-tacir check, the non-character check, the non-altered cheque, the non-oppressive cheque, the non-oppressive cheque, are absolutely unacceptable concepts in terms of Turkish trade law, and these are concepts that will not serve any purpose. These have entered our private law. And I think they need to be purified. Really, my dear friends, based on the complaints of the Czech creditors, it is not a crime to make a bad check to ensure your collection. What is a crime is punished, what is not a crime is not punished. It's not a crime when you can't pay what you owe. If it's not a crime that we can't pay what's owed in the bond, if we can't pay what's owed on the court's terms, then it's no crime that the debt isn't paid on the check. Private law is in effect here. They also called from my constituency, asking: "How are we going to collect if this check is issued?" So when you give it to the court, you'll collect what you're going to get, as well as what you're going to get, which is so obvious. So whatever you're collecting in the bond, whatever you're collecting in the note... it's that obvious. Because it's not really a check-related purchase. So I just told you, a check is to be paid in a bank. Friends, while describing the Turkish Trade Law, the commitment to pay is unconditionally, unconditionally, on a specific date. So there's a certain amount of payment at a certain time. But when we look at the definition of the check, it doesn't contain commitment, it doesn't include a commitment to pay on a specific date. The check contains a certain amount of unconditional payment. Now, there are these regulations in the Trade Law. We will ignore any of this, my dear, this is the economy, this is the economy. This is what they wanted, and this is what they wanted. Guys, I really care that it's come to this. As the Republican People's Party, we see the joy of receiving the results of our 23rd - term efforts in this regard. Of course, as an MP working in this Parliament, as a member of the opposition, I care that the ideas that I've been defending during the legislature have been adopted by political power, whether late or not by the executive body, and I don't underestimate it, but I think that's the way I should be working from now on. Now we have to be careful about making laws, we have to listen to each other, we have to understand what each other is saying. This legislature, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has to insist on making laws that are needed by its power and opposition to the public. That means talking to each other, arguing with each other, and we can't understand what each other is saying to each other, friends. I'm saying we need to talk before we understand, we need to argue. I say we support this law on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, despite its shortcomings. I wish the law was good for business. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0057par0048	Thank you, Mr. Ozturk. İstanbul MP Celal Adan on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0058par0051	Mr. President, I have made a promise to share with you our thoughts on the draft Law on Change in Czech Law 5941. On this occasion, I salute you all. But before we get to the point, I'd like to share a little bit of information with you about the developments in France. This incident, no matter how you look at it, cannot be seen as a provocative attempt by the current administration of another country against Turkey, which is unacceptable. Behind this unacceptable attempt by the French Parliament and its Senate, there is a malicious intent to face the existence of the Turkish nation. Like all of Turkey, we are waiting for the government to take measures to nullify France's corrupt enterprise, saying Turkey has increased its reputation. No one can play with Turkey's honour by contradicting the historical facts of any state. This initiative must be a price the owners must pay. It also needs to be focused on one thing: a country that is allegedly the leading country of freedom of thought and expression in human history has to be wired by the entire democratic world. Turkey must also be after France and its narrow-minded rulers. I'd also like to point out one more thing. Those who assumed Armenian identity in the streets and cried did not react to this immoral attempt by France. This incident also reveals the essential and protective importance of nationalism and nationalism in Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to emphasize from the top that this law is a very important law in our business lives. This bill, which regulates the use of checks, one of the most important payment tools of trade, must first and must maintain the rights of the parties fairly, but the draft bill is far from building equal satisfaction between the creditors and the debtors, between the sides of the check, is far from building trust. When making the law on commercial life, it should have been a lot more careful when going to a new arrangement; when the check law was being made, it should have been adopted a way to restore confidence in the future sales in the market; to build the continuation of the market's future structure on trust; to avoid payment on market morality, which is the most important threat to the market. The Justice and Development Party's Government, as usual, has brought a bill of law into parliament's agenda, regardless of its sensitivities, without listening to civil society, concerned institutions, trade leaders and opposition, to its own understanding, and I have done it, and it has done it. The logic of this law has shown itself once again. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, when we examine the bill that has been drawn up today, we see many wrongs that will negatively affect economic life and trade exchange. Czech means dignity, but with this law, the checks used by almost every merchant is no longer a commercially high, secure means of payment. If this law is passed, the checks will be no different than any payment note. Above all, the inevitability of trade will become a question of trust. No one can profit from a climate where the trust factor is incomplete, where people who trade with each other fall into the vortex of insecurity, where reputations are being questioned. Trust in a person or an institution comes from the full and time commitments of that person or the institution. The greater the number of commitments that have been made, the greater the trust that has been made since these commitments have been fulfilled. The most important role that trust plays in social and economic life is to establish stable communication and structure among people, reducing uncertainty. In a commercial environment where trust is widespread, costs are reduced, capital can be used in a wider area. This law, however, will radically affect all the stages of production and consumption, including the lack of mutual trust. The current prison sentence, whether we like it or not, means a certain sanction. We, of course, would never want anyone to go to prison, to be hurt by commercial reputation, but a reasonable deterrent is absolutely necessary by law. According to the envisioned regulation of Czech Law 5941, the prison sentence will be lifted for failing to pay a check. According to official figures, 600,000 checks are already in front of the judiciary in the 250,000 Supreme Court, with 350,000 first-degree courts. As of January 2012, there are about 600,000 bounced checks in the market. Thus, this law rewards the debtor and victimizes the debtor. After cash, the check, which is the most reliable payment tool in the market, with this bill, will be no different than a regular payment note. Those who receive the cost of their goods and services with a future check will now hesitate to accept the check as a safe, respectable vehicle. Thus, future buyers will seek strong guarantees, such as a bank guarantee letter, real estate guarantee, whether they want it or not. Those who can't offer strong assurances will get worse. This negative situation, like the vicious cycle, will affect the market and reduce the volume of trade. Dear lawmakers, those who explain the reason and reason of this law as a reduction of the workload in the courts make a huge mistake because this law will reduce the workload of courts, but will increase the number of evil-minded people in the market. Besides, if the burden of the courts is going to diminish at the expense of creating new victims, it's better not to decrease at all. The Turkish economy returns with deadlines, contracts, checks. By eliminating sanctions, by inventing veiled pardons, you increase the insecurity that exists. If this law is accepted this way, no tradesman, businessman, manufacturer, rightfully, would want to do business for a check. The result is structural disorder in the economy. The economy, which is already on edge, faces even more negative conditions. Also, don't let anyone try to dress it as a European Union criteria, because the market conditions of Turkey, the cultural structure of the Turkish community, are not the same as the conditions of the European Union. Dear lawmakers, NGOs within the economy, even near the government, bring serious and justified criticism to this law. A package of laws that pleases one side and victimise the other is not fair. We want to receive the full and timely cost of the goods and services we have sold. The removal of the prison sentence is a major threat to the recipient. They say, "What is the debtor's fault?" ▪ Can the government forgive us for what we are about to receive? Now I ask you, are so many people, so many institutions wrong? While you're drafting this law, why don't you ask the opposition, but why don't you consult those in business life? Why are you making this all happen? If this law comes out in this form, then what's between the creditors and the debtor is this: where's the water? The cow drank it. Where's the cow? He ran to the mountain. Where's the mountain? Burned, burned to the ground. Dear lawmakers, at this point, it is our duty to establish a secure and stable legal infrastructure for everyone. In countries where contracts are not fully legally protected, entrepreneurs don't grow up, people are afraid to engage, to start a business, to take risks. Political will, on the other hand, is to remove all obstacles to the entrepreneur, encourage the initiative, encourage the entrepreneur and anyone who wants to do business. Dear lawmakers, this law will make the small tradesman especially miserable. There's a tradesman who's short on cash, who's trying to cash his debts in future checks, who can only pay his debt after he's won. There's no explanation for making the tradesman who doesn't pay his debt even more miserable with this check law. Those who have this law will save themselves, and those who don't will be left at the mercy of the lender, the con man. The little fish will make the big fish's appetite even bigger. The state must not put obstacles in the way of its own citizen, its own businessman, its own business, its producer, its entrepreneur; rather, anyone who wants to produce a business must be opened up financially and legally. Unfortunately, the financial and legal system in our country leaves our people alone in their efforts to determine their own fate. Our system enjoins not to work, but to look at other people's hands, and to be in need of charity. Protecting the debtor and leaving the creditors alone with their own fate will make our scarce entrepreneurial resource dry even more. Nowhere in the world does entrepreneurs grow easily. What we call a brain migration is nothing more than an entrepreneurial migration. The countries are trying to steal entrepreneurs, investors from each other. Because there's land in a country, there's not development because there's capital, there's development in a country if there's entrepreneurs. Therefore, the main goal of economic policy to be implemented in Turkey is to create an entrepreneur. But let's face it, the AKP is trying to get the entrepreneur to get tired of making entrepreneurs, let alone creating entrepreneurs. The check law we're talking about today is to make sure that doing business in Turkey will hit anyone who wants to make money. Dear lawmakers, according to foreign trade figures in November, 11 months of imports were $220 billion, our exports were 122 billion. The foreign trade deficit exceeds 90 billion. Our exports can only cover 55 per cent of import spending, whereas exports have changed from 2002 to 2009 from 61 per cent to 72 per cent. In 2010, it was 61 per cent; in 2011 it was 55 per cent. The external imbalance makes growth in the economy fragile. Sadly, no structural reform has occurred during the AKP administrations to address this problem. As of October 2011, our twelve-month current account deficit was 78 billion dollars. In the external trade deficit, both the world and Turkey's record in the open has been broken. It was announced by the economic management that each $100 export was used to import $82 of imports. The most urgent measure, in this case, is to reduce imports, reduce current deficits. The export of motor vehicles, which were the most exported and imported sectors in January-November 2011, were $14.3 billion, imports $15.5 billion; exports in boilers and machines were $10.4 billion, imports $24.7 billion; exports in iron-tier products were $10.1 billion, imports were 18.6 billion. Dear lawmakers, it's important how much foreign currency you use to get foreign currency. In our economy, export dependency on foreign currency also increases imports as exports increase because of the use of imported entries in production. Unfortunately, the growth model, which is based on a high current deficit, has been accelerated by external source entry and credit increase, has not been abandoned. Thus, the growth of our country's economy has become sensitive to foreign capital movements. The government boasts that financial performance is essentially the result of this fragile growth model. While consumption taxes have increased during the increased account deficit, there is an increase in budget deficits and public debt burdens in the event of a reverse development. The AKP's government has unfortunately failed to implement financial reforms that will reduce this conjunctural sensitivity of the budget over the past eight years. On the basis of AKP's economic policy in the Government Programme, its employment-friendly growth emphasis is stepping forward, but the policies they implemented throughout their administration are separated from their policies in the programme. Import-based export-oriented growth performance is far from business-friendly. As a matter of fact, during their rule, the average growth rate has not been above the average of past years, but has not been stable at the rate of growth, which is required to be in power on its own. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that our country is trying to go through a very large economic strait. So if we were to sort out these problems in terms of materials, Importing only what they can't produce through the history of the Republic, Turkey has broken production in all sectors by importing everything it didn't produce during the AKP Power period. Turkey's economy has been transformed from production to non-producing debt-consuming state. It imports everything from beans to lentils, tobacco to industry, energy to meat and living animals. The government must explain how it will implement economic policies based on price and quality, based on production and export. To do that, you need to make up for the loss of production in all sectors, from agriculture to industry, from trade to services, and then to bring forward areas of high-velocity value. In the nationalist Movement Party's election declaration, the economic understanding of the economy, which the nationalist Movement Party emphasized in its expression "Producing economic policies," must be dominated. Declaring that 2012 would be difficult and not doing anything will turn insecurity in the economy into a crisis of trust. As it is known, Turkey's economy has had a positive performance during the 57th government period following 2002, in the monitoring of the appointed goals, but the economic crisis that sparked the fuse in 2008 has registered the government's laxness, inadequacy and wastelessness, and has dealt with our nation with a great deal of unemployment and poverty. Dear lawmakers, this crisis is not our crisis that the AKP government has often applied to. It has no sense of humor or meaning. As a result, it is not easy for a strong and resilient economy to immediately surrender to chronic problems of its own nature. At a time when the global economic process was promising, the mindset of the Justice and Development Party, which took much advantage of it, quickly explaining when things went wrong, blaming it on other countries, making fun of our nation's mind, the insight of our nation, above all. For nine years, the AKP government has not put stone upon stone in the economy, has hobbled up the heritage of the past, has resorted to every opportunity to offer temporary economic recovery based on hot money and imports as a miracle, thus surrendering to the ease of saving the day. If the crisis exists in others, then we can't do anything. He has expressed economic weakness and exhaustion and presented it as a skill. Dear lawmakers, look, our manufacturing industry is largely operating on imports, and our exports are breathing as much imports as they are. Because we spend more than we earn, we can't get rid of the image of a country that's always open and doesn't come together. Cari means it's clear that this landscape has brought Turkey's economy into a deadlock, forced foreign money and kept it on edge. How will the unemployment rate decline while the growth rate declines, and with what valuable policy practices that we do not know about? In an environment where foreign currency revenues are low, financial problems are peaking, the current will break down all the barriers of the open economy, leaving our nation alone with hunger, unemployment, despair. Cari has secretly frightened the open AKP, and has led it to advance tax hikes in its own way. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, as the National Movement Party, we can't possibly be on the side of regulations that will disrupt the core of the system, disrupt the balance of business ethics. It is the government's duty to improve the conditions of our citizens in prisons, who are victims of checks because of the economic conditions we are in. Today, approximately 380,000 businesses in Istanbul use the check as a form of recognition. If you discredit the check, you'll upset the market, and I believe you'll pay a very heavy price for it. On this occasion, I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0059par0091	Thank you, Mr. Adan. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, Şırnak MP Hasip Kaplan.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0060par0093	Mr. President, I've made a promise to the esteemed MPs regarding Czech law 137 rows. On behalf of the Peace and Democracy Party Group, I salute you all. It's a really important issue because the reflections of the global crisis on our country, the inability to pay checks as of 2008 and especially 2009, executions, bankruptcys, the bankruptcy of companies, the opening of several execution files, thousands of files that have been opened in court due to pro bono checks. On the one hand, thousands of people who have lost their jobs because of the crisis and who are in debt, who are in prison because of debt, and who are in prison for not paying the check, are their families, their jobs are closed. On the one hand, our citizens, who are unable to collect, are in a separate situation. Again, there are different laws from national law to national law. While we're talking about this, it's safe to say that, of course, Turkey's constitutional amendments were made in 2001, and there are provisions in the European Convention on Human Rights, which are clear in addition to the European Convention on Human Rights, that there will be no criminal sanctions, prison sanctions for economic crimes. No.4. According to Article 90 of the Constitution, the ruling in the Lu Protocol is an international contract and this contract is above internal law in Turkey. In a way, when we look at it, the Constitution is Article 90, sanctions on economic crimes; No. 4. The Lu Protocol, the European Convention on Human Rights, brings a mandatory arrangement here. It is important to note that when you bring this mandatory arrangement, you need to be fair, you need to be righteous, and it is a fact that sometimes the law also goes around the Constitution, and you need to know that. Because there are decisions made by the Supreme Court, there are decisions made by the Supreme Court in the past, in 2002, and then there are arguments. He didn't cancel the Czech Law at that time. After that, there's the debates. We're on our way. There are debates in December 2009. December 10, 2009, if I'm not mistaken. Mr. Ozturk, you spoke at the time, Mr. Canikli. When we look at the points of discussion there, we see the same issues coming up again. One, we see that the 3/5 ratio, which is a qualified majority in the Constitution, has been discussed at the time, as chairman of the Commission, as well as a pardon for the removal of the sentences, as well as an amnesty situation. Again, we see that opposition parties, banks, these economic relations, loan sharks, they have some criticism to ensure who's at work, but when we look at the debates at that time from the ruling party front, it comes to the same point, it's about the victims of the check. The numbers are huge, so there's a 300 billion in bad checks, the transactions, the checks for exchange, the fact that they're over 25 million, and there's a lot of them coming back. There was a situation here in 2009 with the execution law system, and now it's a little more technical. We're looking at the amendment of sanctions in the Constitution, so what's it like? The criminal contractor is being turned into an administrative savings measure, which in a way illustrates an arrangement that will allow the victims of the check to get out of prison sentences. Now, the issue of the bank's responsibility here comes up, so let's not have banks hand out checks like a national lottery ticket, let's have a certain system, let's have a certain audit, let's say, especially an honest business manager, our people, who've really fallen into a difficult situation because of this crisis, our people who've been in prison, who've had a little trouble, even though there's no exception, now we know that there's a very few of us who use a free check as a fraud tool -- even if it's just a small number. Now, it's not fair to sacrifice thousands of people to a very small number of people, the great victims of a large number of people, to a very small number of people. In the system of criminal law, it's actually possible to identify and track these criminals in a different way. Then what do we do? As a law, what we're going to pay attention to in these sacrifices is that the same mistakes don't happen every day, the same situations don't happen every day. Because make sure you get the most reliable payment vehicle in the Cambio bonds. If the check is compromised, so if it goes down to the bond level, trade exchanges in commercial life, the payment system will also be damaged. E, Turkey is a big country, 74 million and a huge commercial action. In other words, it is inevitable that an effort is made to provide an arrangement that will not cripple Turkey's imports, exports, and its system. Now, on the commission, I looked up, every time I came to the check page, it was raised to a thousand liras. Oh, here's where the banks will be more careful, more careful, not handing out their checks to everyone. So this actually brings in this system at some point, when we look at the decline in free-of-charge checks since the 2009 change. Oh, does this system provide complete trust? Not exactly, but in terms of insurance, in terms of garantism, in terms of control, in terms of the transparency of commercial life, there had to be a minimum adjustment. Of course it's good for this to happen. Of course, there's something else here -- this income, the AK PARTI majority, of course, with a motion that he won't bring in -- not our number, but if there's a compromise -- it's a bond to equate, equate the statute of limitations of checks; six months, three years, we think there should be an arrangement. It's criminal sanction and administrative sanction plus the Central Bank's archive and registration event is creating a new situation, so it's going to be a shift from the criminal record to the Federal Bank's record. With this law -- it says, some say, I don't know, 600,000, some say -- does it certainly bring relief to the judicial court, the criminal courts, even the law courts, even the work above 50 percent of the legal arm, these promissory checks, the lawsuits, the pay, the grant, the foreclosure, the follow-up work? Of course, this law will bring a judicial relief in this matter as well. There's another point here. Those who commit a qualified fraud -- as I say so said -- must be kept separate from the exception of those who commit what we call honest fraud -- but who do their job, but who are in debt, who are in debt, who are in debt, who are in debt, who are in debt, who can't pay, and who are in prison while their victims are being eliminated. What about the creditors? Really, there's a lot of talk coming out of the trade room, the unions, and we've been getting e-mails and faxes all the time. They say, "We are victims." So he says he's as much of a debtor as a bad check victim. I'm a victim. Is there a victim interest in these creditors? As a matter of fact, I don't see anything here that would satisfy me. So let's be realistic. It's just that the arrangement that we're making brings a improvement in the victims of a check, an insurance system related to a check, and when the check is investigated, it relieves the burden of judicial justice in these crimes, it leads to the Central Bank and administrative savings. There's another point here that's useful to draw attention to. Now, you arrest the debtor, he goes in. If the prisoner doesn't work, the workplace closes, if the business closes, he can't pay his debt, and when he doesn't pay his debt, the other checks are due. It's usually a payday at the time of a check, but in commercial life, it's like a standard check when we're sitting in Turkey looking at trade, industry, organised industry, commercial areas. When we look at it this way, it would also be healthy for a person you arrest for economic crime to pay his debt, to lie inside. To change the current arrangement, which means nothing more than to say. At the same time, it would be healthy for the victims of a check to come out and rebuild their own commercial lives and to be given an opportunity to pay off their debts. Of course, I wish there was some very healthy data in front of the House. In this regard, how many checks are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there, how many are there? What percentage of this is qualified fraud, and what percentage are really affected by the crisis? Will those affected by the crisis be recognized or not known for the effects of the crisis as well as for those affected by the other occupations? We don't have any socioeconomic data. So here's the law, because Congress can't get this data through a full, healthy analysis when the law is being passed, so we're going to have to make a law in 2009, and we're going to have to make a law again in less than a year. Why did I say that? That's because there are arguments, because there are a lot of explanations for pro bono checks, reductions in the insurance system, relief from the crisis. And there's a funny side to that, it's in the Prime Minister's book, and his best friend got himself thrown in jail for pro bono checks, to protect him, and that's how he gets into our political literature. In the memory of Hasan Yeşildağ, it is in the book. And he maketh an unrequited check, and saith unto the judge: arrest me. And he shall lie down for three or four months, and it shall be upon him. Now, the number of merchants and businessmen in prison is very high, in fact, showing that those affected by this crisis were a very serious number of people with their families. So they came to us, and they came to our group, and they came to us, and they came to us, and they called, and they sent me, and they sent me e-mails and faxes, and they came to other groups. Why did we delay these arrangements, No. 4. Why did the Lu Protocol come into effect so late, it needs to be questioned. So in 2001, when the European Union began its process, it was number 4. Why did we delay the protocol for ten years? I mean, there were arrangements made in 2001, so why so far? That's another matter. Interesting things are coming too. Look, we don't get what we get from some creditors, so let's keep the checks and jail sentences going. These are hand-delivered letters and sacrifices. There are also those who say, "What will you do with the servant's rights? ' So, what do we do with them? We think this House has an obligation to think about creditors as well as those who lie on the scales of justice because of a bad check, and in the same way, we get letters from people who are bankrupt, who are bankrupt, who are suffering major losses because they don't get what they're getting, and they get e-mails, and they're different opinions. Now, debt doesn't pay in prison, everybody knows that. If the debtor is in jail, he can't work, he can't pay, everybody knows that. I think, after this global crisis, there's probably 9,000 of them, with the hope of getting released from the check to the prisoner, with these unpaid fines being cashed out, bad checks, and this arrangement, I think, there's a new understanding that needs to be developed. If we don't develop that understanding, if we don't make the right and healthy arrangements about this, if we say that we've melted these files today, if we take out most of these victims, we'll have the same situation tomorrow. What's worse, this time, it's going to take very serious economic, social measures not to go bankrupt, when the check mafia comes in, when the black money comes in, when the loan goes in, when the loan shark goes in. We think that some of the things that are on the alert about working life need to be rearranged. As the Peace and Democracy Party from the beginning, we said, "There is no prison for economic crime, there is no punishment; when you do this in economic crime, you can't operate commercial life in this way." We said, "Well, there was an obligation brought by the European Union process, it was a law requirement, it was the Constitutional requirement, and today, even if it was partly not enough, there is no punishment; although we find it to be inadequate as our group, with certain proposals -- I hope four more groups can regulate this issue -- and I would say, in the name of the law, I would say, in the name of the group. I salute you all.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0061par0113	Thank you, Mr. Kaplan. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Yilmaz Bronzeç,
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group for the general draft of the Czech Law. I hereby salute your high council. By 1985, general provisions of criminal law on promissory checks were being carried out and convicted of fraud for misdemeanor checks. In the first form of Law No. 3167 issued in 1985, the sanction of the action of mischarging checks was envisioned as a one-to-five-year prison sentence. In parallel with the European Convention on Human Rights, Protocol No.4 of the European Convention on Human Rights, there was an arrangement in the Constitution in 2001 that no one could be denied freedom simply because they failed to fulfill an obligation due to the contract. The Constitutional Court did not find the prison sentence against the Constitutional Court in its December 11, 2002 verdict and in its latest decision in March 2011, due to the fact that the check was essentially a private wire transfer due to the Cambio law, independent of the contract. In 2003, due to the birth of the principle of economic punishment for economic crime in modern criminal law, Law 3167 was issued a fine for those who changed Law 4814 and committed misfires for the first time, and a fine for repeaters. The reason for this change is that the economic penalty principle for economic crime was born in accordance with the development and diversification of economic relations in the criminal law, and as a result of which the freedom of criminal action required freedom as a last resort to the application of punishment, which led to the birth of the economic penalty principle, and therefore the payment of the check made in the article and the payment of the check for those who committed it for the first time was sentenced to be fined only in the amount of the price of a check for those who committed it. Despite this change, however, the practice of prison sentences in terms of repeated anti-trafficking action continued to be criticised and criticised in the doctrine. The basis of these criticisms is that it is against the principles of criminal law to impose prison sentences on the verb of misdemeanor check withdrawal and that the prison sentence is a last resort. Although the Constitutional Court did not find the regulation unconstitutional, it also supported criticism that no one could be taken out of his freedom simply because they failed to fulfill an obligation made from the contract in Article 38 of the Constitution. In 2009, the Czech Law No. 5941 in order to address the problems in practice and to meet criticisms in the doctrine was also prescribed a fine as a penalty for the verb "discharged check." However, criticism of economic punishment for economic crime has been re-intensified, since it has become a prison sentence in the process of execution if the fine is not paid. Dear lawmakers, despite all these changes, the debate on the check has not been reduced, and the check remains a problem for both creditors and debtors. This bill came to the agenda in order to eliminate these problems and criticisms, to comply with international contracts and Article 38 of our Constitution, as well as to reduce the workload of our courts due to procedural checks, and to address the problems of our citizens due to the delay of justice. At the heart of the bill, judicial sanctions for the action of misappropriate checks have been transformed into administrative sanctions. There is a ban on arranging checks and opening checking accounts for those who act on unrequited checks. It is estimated that the ban on opening a Czech arrangement and checking account will be passed by the republic's prosecutors and the provisions of the Law of Offenses No. 5326 will be carried out. The administrative process will also begin on the basis of the complaint. On the basis of the procedural procedure, the hamil will be able to ask the republic's prosecutor for a ban on drafting a check and opening a checking account. According to the provisions of the Law on Crimes, the prosecutor will decide on a ban on checking and checking accounts. The executive decision will be delivered to the person against whom the restraining order has been made, and you will be able to apply according to the provisions of the Law of Offenses. In the event the check price is paid, the executive sanction decision will be revoked if the demand for administrative sanctions is denied and the executive sanction decision will be lifted in the event of a ten-year maximum period. It is also required to state that the rules of the law will continue to enforce the rules of the rule of check editing and the ban on opening a checking account. In short, there is now a legal fine on the verb "unrequited check" and as a result, a ban on arranging checks and opening checking accounts instead of prison sentences. This punishment is an important measure to maintain confidence in the check and to prevent those who want to cheat the market by making a bad check. The bill also coincides with the proposals of our lawmakers from opposition parties. The Confederacy of Traders and Artists of Turkey has announced that judicial sanctions must be lifted. Turkey approves the bill as long as the Chambers and Stock Exchange Union Risk Center is alive. In addition to Law 6111 of February 13, 2011 and the Banking Law, the Turkish Union of Banks established the Risk Centre. The aim of the centre is to get the risk information of some financial firms and some financial institutions to share their information with them, as well as with private legal persons, provided that they are given or approved by real or legal persons. The main reason that the judicial sanctions were not removed during the 2009 amendment is the concern that the creditors were victims because this Risk Center was not established. With the establishment and processing of the Risk Center, the financial situation of the Czech owner will be seen and controlled by creditors, thus opening the way for people who are willing to trade with the check to a safer environment. With the risk centre running and this bill being implemented, our country will no longer have a large loss of the term "lax victim" in the country. Trade life will be a safer, smoother environment, free of malicious people who are trying to cheat the market by opening a check account. Mr. President, the most important criticism of the bill in public is the fact that prison sentences are being lifted and thus the victims of creditors. The bill contains provisions that protect the victim of the creditors within it. We will also be able to discuss new assurances together today and add them to the bill with the proposals to be prepared. First of all, the temporary Article 3 has been ruled that the legal validity of old checks will continue, thus preventing the victims of this issue. The bill will come to the agenda shortly after its talks, and with the proposal being prepared, it will be a habit of falsifying checks, which will be kept in line with the harm done by those who will be subjected to the general provisions of criminal law for missing money, so the risk of jail time for these individuals will continue. Again, an amendment to the relevant law will be made to resolve the problem of the statute of limitations of unresponsive checks, which have not been put into execution surveillance, since it has kept the criminal investigation pending. With the bill, the amount of responsibility the banks have to pay 700 lira for each check leaf will be raised to a thousand lira on the commission, allowing banks to be more careful when giving a checkbook so that the creditors are not victims. Here, it is important to express: let's increase the responsibility of the banks and make sure that the debtor is guaranteed. There are suggestions in public for the situation. However, there will be no loss of banks because banks will want collateral from the person who wants to open a check account for each check leaf, but because they will not be too eager to open a checking account and give a checkbook, it will negatively affect the amount and the use of a check in the market, and that will be the loss of the small tradesman who can't guarantee it. Thus, the bank's responsibility is set at a thousand liras per check leaf. Mr. President, with the risk centre in place, the bill will have a positive impact on the trade life, and the debtor will not have to pay the government the price of a promissory check, but will pay the debtor, and will be more likely to get the creditors back. It will be adopted in accordance with the principles that the bill and sanctions are proportional and that criminal law is the last resort. In fact, it's fraud that people who have opened checks on their behalf or on behalf of their own, or on behalf of the Fason corporations he's building, and who's been scamming the market by compiling hundreds of checks, and emptying out their companies. Since the current arrangement considers a misdemeanor check crime a form of crime, these individuals are not wanted for the crime of misdemeanor checks, while they should be tried in accordance with the general provisions of criminal law. This problem is also being eliminated by the bill. Despite the fact that the misdemeanor of misdemeanor checks is considered a formal crime in practice and that crime is essentially a crime that can be committed on purpose, the negativity due to the absence of a search for the person's intent will still be resolved by this bill, as well as the victims of the creditors in this regard. Critics will be met over the sentence being turned into a prison sentence in the execution period if the legal fines issued under the current law are not paid. Since the issue of incompatibility has been excluded from the criminal justice system, the workload of procedural checks will be removed from the courts and the Supreme Court. This is how prosecutors will be able to devote their timeline to different issues. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have nothing to do with the facts of the statements that the procedural checks have increased in the years of the EC PARTI. The spokesman for the National Movement Party and the spokesman for the Peace and Democracy Party spoke before me here, saying we didn't put rocks on stone in the economy. Since we put stones on stone, Turkey today plus 9 is a country that is growing up to break world growth records. Call it what you want. And the AK PARTY is a government that has managed to come to power by 50 percent for the third time today because it has laid stone upon stone. We don't even want to remember those days of crisis. We don't want to remember those days when Turkey struggled with crises when there was no crisis in the world. In those years, compared with the years of the pre-2002 Coalition Government and the years of the EC PARTY, we see that the record for promissory checks was 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0063par0139	You're lying! Lies, lies! Take care of the numbers!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0140	Here are the numbers, here are the statistics of the state...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0063par0141	You set a record for this! There will be no other government in the history of the Republic of Turkey that will beat this record!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0142	...when you enter the Internet, you can easily access these statistics. There's a line of computers right in front of you, go directly to the Internet, where you'll see how the procedural checks vary according to the years.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0063par0143	You guys flip the numbers!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0144	Now, I'm telling you the numbers: 320,000 cases in 1999. Look, 320,000 cases have been filed in one year, and 337,000 people have been tried in these cases. 262,000 cases were filed in 2000, and 281,000 people were tried in these cases. The number of cases filed in 2001 -- there is a record in 2001 -- was 307,000, and the number of people tried was 327. 177,000 cases were filed in 2002, 191,000 people were tried, during the period of the mp, DSP, ANAP Coalition Government. 1,68,222 cases have been filed in four years, and 1,137,000 people have been tried in these cases. One million and 68 grand in four years, let's keep that in mind. When we look at the years of the AK PARTY, the number of cases filed in 2003 was 131,000...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0064par0146	It's wrong, it's wrong.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0147	123,000 opened in 2004, 97 thousand opened in 2005, 128 thousand in 2006, 142 in 2007, 211,000 in 2008, 159 in 2009, 105 in 2010, 1.14,000 in eight years.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0064par0148	1,900 cases have been filed in 2009 alone.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0149	So we see here that the number of lawsuits in four years is equal to the number of cases in eight years.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0065par0150	You're saying the numbers wrong. You're lying to people about this.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0151	Records, official statistics...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0065par0152	No, it's not on the record.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0066par0153	Mr. Turkkan, please...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0154	Go online, the statistics of the Justice Department, the statistics of the Undersecretary of Treasury...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0065par0155	Take them, look straight.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0156	... enter into the statistics of the Banks Association, and look, you'll see these numbers.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0067par0157	How many bad checks in 2009?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0158	We've all heard from here that our Minister of Justice has announced the official statistics of the Justice Department to the motion given by your Kütahya MP, Alim Izlu.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0068par0159	1,974,000 only in 2009.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0160	In the four-year period before the EC PARTY governments, there have been 267 thousand cases a year, while in the last eight years there have been an average of 141,000 cases, while in the last eight years, the number of procedural checks has increased, but there has been a partial reduction in the annual average.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0069par0161	One hundred thousand will go in, says Babacan. One hundred thousand will go in. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0162	While the official records show this, statements that the number of bad checks has increased in recent years are incompatible with the facts.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0069par0163	Isn't your father telling the truth?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0062par0164	The bill is in harmony with international contracts and with the Constitution, with provisions to compensate the debtor. This bill prevents the use of the check, which is not implemented in any country in the world, which should actually be a payment tool, as a future payment tool for the guarantee of a prison sentence, and thus leading to negatives in the market, and thus the victimization of both creditors and debtors. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the bill to be good, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0070par0167	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0071par0168	Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0070par0169	Sir...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0071par0170	Mr. President, I just gave the quietest speech of my life, but he said again, "The opposition didn't put a stone on the stone by referring to our group." He said. I think he's got a say in the matter.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0070par0171	Now, I'm going to promise you, Mr. Kaplan, because your face and all that, I mean, but since I can't watch, I can't listen to the whole thing...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0071par0172	You mean our group...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0070par0173	Wait a minute, I have to get the normal paperwork, but I'm gonna make you a promise right now. Please, don't let it be the opposite answer.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0071par0175	No, no, no.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0070par0176	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0071par0179	Friends, the BDP has put 10,000 victims of checks in prison! You know what? We didn't put a stone on the stone. We talked about AKP's victims of the check. So we said, "Let's get rid of this sacrifice." Guys, the AKP has put rocks on top of rocks. I'm sure he did. Look at the 2011 figures: 17 banks are tax records, 28 holdings are the most winners. You get 86 percent indirect tax, VAT tax, VAT tax, laborer, employee, employee, employee, employee. You've brought stones from workers, workers, employees, bankers, conglomerates, monopolys, capital buildings, buildings. God is true, you've put it on stone! Ask the minimum wage, how many stones did you get? Look, ask the worker. You can see collective contract of employment. Ask the officer, how much money did you get smaller? You take the stones from one place, you put them over the other. You made a bunch of rich people. You've created a handful of minorities. We just gave you a speech about the victims of a check, and three or four groups are here to support it. We talked about their problem. I didn't say a word against the AK PARTY power. I didn't hear the need to speak in this speech today, other than the victims of a check, but Mr. Hatip, the habit, our group, says by showing it: "The opposition party didn't put stone on stone. Let me tell you something: You didn't put stones on stones in the area of freedom, you didn't put them in the field of human rights, you didn't put them in the area of democracy, you didn't place 130 thousand prisoners in the prison, the maximum press offenders in Turkey, the most lawyers are arrested in Turkey. Don't look at us, we're talking so calmly, we're like tailors, tailors, tailors who can't sew. We make laws for fixers, we raise checks to victims, but we can't raise them to eight lawmakers. We have eight MPs under arrest. We've had enough of this shame! We've had enough of this shame! Here, you can't put a stone on a rock, you can't. You can't... here, since you can't do this, please, don't tease us while we're sitting down while we're not talking, and don't give us a say. Our president gets angry. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0072par0184	Thank you. [[Continue]] The first word on their behalf is Mr. Haroun Rifleci. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Why did you applaud so little of Mr. Aaron? [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0073par0195	Aaron, there's a presidential court pull!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0072par0196	Yeah...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0074par0197	First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. President for his kindness. Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself, all over the Bill of the Law, concerning the amendment to the Czech Law. First of all, I salute you all. Article 13 of the Constitution shall abide by the principle of measure in limiting basic rights and freedoms. The Turkish Penal Code is seen as a reflection of this constitutional principle, which is proportional to the sanctions carried out in Article 3 of our third amendment and is the last resort to criminal law. The reason for the same clause is that criminal law laws should be justified and measured in order to ensure justice in the society's order for the crime to be committed. Because it can only be said that the person who committed the crime with a right and proportional to the weight of the crime should regret its action and be brought back to society. According to this, there must be a ratio between benefit and harm in criminal law procedures, otherwise the procedure must be waived. In other words, criminal law is the final stage, which is inevitable in terms of the continuation of social peace. Mr. President, good lawmakers, one of the most important principles of criminal law is the principle of economic punishment for economic crime. The sanction of economic crimes should be more in the form of economic sanctions than in prison. The 5th article of Czech Law 5941 has been ordered to carry out the sentence in exchange for the charge of misdemeanor checks, but it has always been discussed in the case of the fine being changed into a prison sentence. However, the execution of a prison sentence on the person who is unable to pay off his debt has resulted in the severe shaking or end of his commercial life. In addition, the possibility of paying off his debts is almost completely eliminated. In fact, sometimes the creditors have often expressed that to us, in view of the fact that the debtors will be out there collecting their debts better. On the other hand, it is the duty of the judiciary to conclude cases with minimum cost and as fast as possible in the final joke of Article 141 of the Constitution. Article 6 of the European Convention on Protection of Human Rights and Basic Freedoms has been stated that everyone has the right to demand a trial in a reasonable time by an independent and impartial court. My dear friends, as it is known, the discrepancies stem from the misdemeanor of misdemeanor checks are an important part of the workload in the criminal justice system. This law is designed to solve the difficulties caused by a judicial sanction and to ensure that justice is activated, speedy and effective. In the European Convention on Human Rights, no one can be deprived of his freedom simply because he failed to fulfill an obligation due to the contract. The 38th Article of our Constitution and other international contract provisions are within the scope of its obligation to not be given a direct or indirectly binding punishment for freedom. Therefore, in the face of constitutional norms and other international contract provisions, it is imperative that some laws be changed in the Czech Law in order to comply with this norm. The trend of international law in sanction options that depend on the failure of acts in private debt relations is to abandon the category of depriving freedoms. In this scope, neither the 90th article of the Constitution nor the international agreements would be able to continue the prison sentence for promissory checks. In addition, it should not be forgotten that the legislature can also rule out some verbs as a crime, including other facts and changes. My dear friends, according to the date of the regulation written on it, there is no reciprocal action regarding the check in the case of the check, even the decision to arrange a check and not open a checking account is sufficient deterrent for the Czech owners. On the other hand, aside from the fact that the bad checks are rather low compared to the amount of checks in circulation, the gap that free cheques will not last for long, and will replace them with the natural order of economic operations, as the deadline expires. On the other hand, aside from the fact that the check creditors are equipped with surveillance powers and other special law enforcement, they also provide the economic capacity and the ability to track them. There is no time limit on the obligations of banks regarding the checks available to the Czech owners. Thus, it has been limited from the date on the check to five years in terms of the amount the banks are obliged to pay in order to prevent illegal credit ties from continuing between the banks and the checkbook holders. My fellow lawmakers say I support this arrangement, which is thought to be made in Czech Law 5941, on behalf of myself, that I will vote in favour of myself, that you honor and respect the esteemed delegation, and I wish you a good day.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0075par0208	Thank you, Mr. Rifleman. On behalf of the Commission, Ankara MP Ahmet Cemalaya.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0076par0211	Dear President, dear members of the High Parliament, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. Today, the great Parliament uses the power, the power, the power, the power, to establish, commit crime, lift the crime, destroy the punishment, which is far different from its legal mandate, which is defined as a separate power in the Constitution. The answer now sought is, should the unrequited check act continue to be a crime or should we create a space of freedom by decriminalizing it? In order to create a valid, credible, public-acceptable response to this question, you need to make a two-angle assessment. Is there or isn't there a law that destroys a different choice of will that determines Parliament's will in terms of binding law? I'll call it the binding legal benefit. The second angle is really, in the interest of creditors right now, do we need mechanisms to match this mandatory solution, do we have an angle on the project? Dear friends, the failure to meet debts stemming from interpersonal relations has been linked to different sanctions in the development of law history. The first period of non-payment of the special debt was considered a reason for imprisonment, foreclosure, and foreclosure. In fact, by Solon's Law, creditors could kill the debtor, share the flesh, divide the bones. It's settled. Financial sanctions, financial sanctions have been envisioned in the absence of debt. Evolution peaked in the trend of liberation and democracy that emerged after World War II in 1950. The penal doctrine said: "The mission of a special debt for no punishment cannot be carried out. This is a joke. The purpose of punishment is social peace, public order, etcetera. And this trend, which was increasingly reflected in the law of Black Europe in 1950, began to turn into the European Union norm in 1958. I'd like to share with you an interesting information, a paradoxical information. It's now No. 4th. The debt sentence, which stems from what we call the Lu Protocol, cannot be applied. The idea architect of the proposal is Turkey. The late Kasim Gülek and the late Brült Ecevit -- read the Council of Europe's Council of Counsellors -- made this proposal. It was established in 1963, and in 1994, Turkey was only able to adopt it, pass it on to internal law. Dear friends, under Article 38 of our Constitution, it is not possible for us to predict prison sanctions that are not fulfilled due to private debt relations. So far, it's a violation of the law, it's a violation of the Constitution, and serious jurisprudences could easily develop a preliminaries in this matter through winning cases. Our Constitutional Court, unfortunately, when it came to the agenda of this issue, said the Czech debt is not due to a private debt relationship, it is not due to a contract. He made a comment against freedom. For one thing, the basic function of constitutional law is to consolidate it with the interpretation of the nature of the Constitution and the international contract. The Constitutional courts must comment on the benefit of freedom; it is a fundamental principle. Oh, here's the thing: this check -- it's in modern law, it's in comparison with law -- can create another crime, it can create action in terms of both spiritual elements and material elements. The 1929 Parliament has already answered that question. I believe it's the 11th or 12th Article of our Constitution in 1924. Parliament could fill and fill spaces through interpretation, and the high Parliament, using its constitutional authority at the time, predicted that fraud provisions could be enforced according to the types of violations of checks. What we're doing today is a mandatory regulation of binding law norms, and even if we adopt something different, it's a violation of the contrary Constitution. Parliament is doing the right thing. What are the benefits of creditors, economic public order, market functioning? For one thing, in the state of law, there is no way to overcome the binding law norm, for reasons such as market functioning, creditors, economic public order. What happens if we drill once? The logic of the law state is a dagger in its basic value, and there is no way that we can capture binding law and rule of law with that logic.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0077par0218	I'd like to take a moment of your time. Congressmans, the Azerbaijan Parliament Committee, who are visiting our country, has arrived to welcome them on behalf of our House. I'm saying. [[Applause]] (*) In this chapter, non-Turkish words were expressed by the Minister. [[Continue]] Mr. President, please come in.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0078par0231	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, the approach difference. For one thing, serious basic regulations are not likely to affect the ongoing expectations, but every reform, every transformation is destined for a transition process or a period of time is inevitable. Right now, I think a year and a half will be enough for the transformation of the mindset that this new order in the Czech field can create, for the economy to correct its own functioning and so on. This must be a structure the political institution must accept in order to rule out a violation of the law. Besides, does prison really pay for it? Either way, it can be answered; it can be said to be, or it doesn't. In most cases, it can be said that because a person is in prison, because he has lost his ability to produce and earn, the prison sentence reduces his capacity to pay, or the fear of being in prison may support his psychology. There's an economic model here in that sense, and that's the Czech drug addict's ban. With the check bounced, in the condition of his circumstances, the ceiling won't be able to draw checks again in ten years. This is a compensation for the use of the law that has been put into prison for deterrentism. The creditors are equipped, equipped with the ability to follow modern law; they will try to collect their own earnings. Then, after that, there was a risk analysis center for the fullness of the bank-commerce relationship, the fact that the check was sound, that there was economic compensation. Again, the experiment we've been experimenting with is corroding the countercontroversies. More recently, the Supreme Parliament has established instalment agreements on check crimes, allowing the prisoners to come out and suspend the following, and during that time, the economic symptom, we did not see an economic negative impact. The check, again, is from 2% to 4% in the volume of the check. This rate may be absorbable in terms of large economies, digestible, transformable, and perceived as a risk-capacity ratio, but I personally disagree that this reform will reduce the burden of justice. This reform is true, and the results will reduce the burden of judgment; the files will fall, the defendants will come out; after that, the court will not deal with such a thing. Then that's the result. So the reduction of the judicial burden, the burden of the judicial judiciary, is not a reason for the project, but the result. I wish the solution to success, and I salute the high Parliament again.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0079par0236	Thank you, Mr. Nicemaya. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Ismail Kashdemir of Çanakkale.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0080par0239	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of myself as to the general legislature of the Common Bill of Law 137, which is in session, and I hereby salute your grand delegation. We are here today to discuss a matter that has become a serious problem for an important part of society, a matter that concerns hundreds of thousands of people. We're discussing an arrangement called the Czech Law that holds an important place in our commercial life. We're a team that reads society, makes its will to solve social demands as clear as possible. That is why our government, which listens to the demands of each party, has put the subject on the table, which is what thousands of people expect, and has made the final decision, demanding the necessary work from all of our relevant organizations. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I would like to point out that this arrangement was not carried out in a hurry from yesterday to today. Our economies ministers, economic co-ordination meetings, relevant trade organisations, the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey, business rooms, the Association of Banks, have been doing important work for more than two years. As you know, the original and radical change in the check was made in 2009. During the talks on that day, there is no constant ban on prison in Czech. The demand has been postponed, in a sense, since the risk control centre cannot be established. With the current arrangement, this Risk Center is established. This arrangement could not be discussed today if this Centre could not be implemented. With this arrangement, the check is removed from being a means of fraud, and it is endeavored to be parallel to the practices of the world. It is intended for us to have what is in the world. Dear friends, the 13th article of the Constitution shows us the principle of measurement in limiting basic rights and freedoms. The principle of proportionality in Article 3 of the Turkish Penal Code is indispensable. In criminal law, criminal punishment is the latest form of execution. In cases where legal or administrative responsibility may be sufficient, the absence of judicial penalties is a command of both the Constitution and the Penal Code. In addition, the European Convention on Human Rights, which we are on, No. 4 of which we are on the same side. The 1st article of the Lu Protocol can also be summarized as "an economic punishment for economic crime." The 38th Article of the Constitution shall not be taken from its freedom because it cannot fulfil a contractary obligation. Again, in Article 11 of the Convention on Civil Rights and Political Rights, no one can be deprived of his freedom on the grounds that he failed to fulfill a simple contract obligation. Thus, it is inevitable that both the Constitution, international contracts, and a number of general principles in the penal code, will be arranged for promissory checks. Dear lawmakers, after this general assessment, let's briefly remember the application. First, let us point out that there is no direct prison sentence in the current Czech Law. After the execution, the government was suddenly in debt from a non-participation relationship, so the state would get a fine if they still didn't collect after a bad check complaint. If this debt wasn't paid, prison would be on the agenda. Indirectly speaking, the judicial penalty, which I mentioned and similar principles, has already been discussed in the doctrine for a long time. It's always been said that this indirect punishment isn't human, it's against the law. The fact that the person who can't pay his debt is sentenced to death means the end of his commercial life. In a sense, it reminds me of the story of the slaughter of the golden goose. Sir, there are evil-minded people. Yes, but there are no similical precedents. So people who can't pay their checks because of commercial hardship and abuse their right to use a check are the exceptions. And for that, other criminal charges in the law are welcome. According to the verb's case, there are many criminal definitions based on the state of the verb, from fraud to abuse of security, from the introduction of false documents to many other crimes. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, well, there's no way that an act of procrastinating checks would go unpunished in order to avoid a weakness in the post of the check. With this arrangement, a ban has been imposed for up to ten years to set up checks and checking accounts. Moreover, this sentence will not be subject to long court proceedings, and if the terms of the form are met, it will be immediately by the prosecution's decision. For those who know, the biggest punishment, the biggest problem is commercial reputation. That means the loss of reputation means the loss of the person's trade. Any actor who wants to stay in the system will have to pay off his debt, so the person who gets the check will be able to access the checker's information at the National Bank, the Risk Control Center, and accept a check according to him; and the debtor will make the maximum effort to make sure his record at the Centre is not bad, and the risk of not getting a check for ten years will always be visible. These are serious measures. Mr. President, good lawmakers, it is not a way to collect debt for the debtor to be put in jail because he has no payable power. There were already 1,900,000 bad checks on the market before the 2009 arrangement, when the check was sentenced to prison. As the current practice, which we now call prison, begins, some friends will be ruined in the market, and the collectors' gangs will have a day. However, the bad check was around 900,000 in 2010 and 500,000 in 2011. So, the way to get credit for the check and make the check a reliable payment tool is not to predict jail time for people who make bad checks; it's to be given to those who are competent to use it as their economic status. Thus, with the ban on drafting a check and opening a checking account, the way for those who are not qualified to use a check as part of the economic situation has been blocked. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I also find it helpful to mention a few more important issues in the arrangement. Since the law on checks was not set for a period of time on the banks' obligations, the informal loan relationship between the banks and the checkbook holders remained uncertain for many years. Friends from practice know that missing checks, anonymous checks to whom, checks that can't be submitted to the bank because there's evidence in court, were always facing the bank and the checkbook owner. With the new arrangement, the checkbook has a printed date and the responsibility is limited to five years. Another arrangement has been extended to December 31st 2017, when a large percentage of the checks in the market are thought to be a forward-date check, preventing them from signing the checks from writing on the date -- in fact -- before the promise -- in fact -- in order to protect the check makers. Another arrangement is the possibility that checks available on the grounds that it is not wasted can be used until December 31, 2012. In addition, the bank's responsibility for each check leaf that cannot be collected was $600, while the arrangement raised that responsibility to a thousand liras. Mr. President, the most important parameters of our political understanding are people. So praise man, that the state may be exalted. We have made the law our own. We listen to the sound of every aspect of society. Our horizon line is the peace of our nation. That's why we're taking this step at the request of the nation. Of course, the sword of justice is sharp, and every decision will have a satisfied one and an unhappy one. It is our duty to serve in accordance with international contracts, the Constitution, in favor of justice, in favor of human rights, in favor of less victims. So we put this chronicized problem on the table, and because we believe it's true, we make it legal. I hope and salute all of you that the bill that is being passed will be good for our entire nation.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0081par0259	Thank you. The speeches are complete. Now I'm going to go with the question-answer process. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0082par0263	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, how much money has your government saved in a criminal fine pen for bad checks since 2003? Also under the 2009 arrangement, the two-year commitment period of Law 5941 expires as of April 1st. So far, what's the number of people who've been committed in the last two years who've been released from prison or released from prison? Are the numbers expressed in the hundreds of thousands correct? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0083par0266	Mr. Right...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0084par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the government: there are also victims of various loans, as there are Czech victims in our country. One of them is Duran Shirin, an animal manufacturer in the town of Berekt, in the district of Reşadiye, Tokat Province, Turkey. Duran Smurf used it by taking the government's livestock loan, but the price of the animals he borrowed was half off because of the import entrance, so it was expensive. In this case, the manufacturer was devastated and faced with a sinking situation. People who use credit like Duran Hawk can't pay their debts. What do you recommend to these people? Is another amnesty law like this check law coming after you? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0085par0270	Mr. Ozturk...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0086par0271	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's only been ten days since this check law, the change was discussed upstairs, but it didn't take ten days to get here. Now that I see it, there's a lot missing, you're making a lot of motions. How long do you think a law that is so lacking in ten days will last? My second question is, are those who make the law and those who speak here just the ones who give cheques? Don't you know any of the victims because the check wasn't paid? You are always guarding the rights of the others. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0087par0275	Mr. Belen...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0088par0276	Mr. President, I'd like to ask you the following questions from the government: What is the number of checks that are being monitored by the end of 2011? How much is the monetary value of the following purchases in these files? How many people are in jail because he can't pay his check? How many files are there in the Supreme Court? What's the financial cost of checks being used in the domestic market? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0087par0278	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0089par0279	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, what kind of arrangement do you intend to make for the removal of the victims of debtors who are unable to collect their checks as a result of their failure? The failure of checks in circulation is a sign that at some point things aren't going well, that the economy isn't good, that it's not well managed, and that there's no security in business. Are there studies in trade that you plan to do in the short and long term for the establishment of the environment of trust? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0090par0282	Mr. Günal...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0091par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Yilmaz Tunç said the prison sentence was not applied in 2009 because the Risk Center was not established. Has the Risk Center been established, was it predicted to be built within the year -- within a year? Is there a risk tracking center in the TOBB system? Because Mr. Babacan's risk tracking center will be operational in February. He said, "Is there a slip of the tongue, or is there another risk observatory?" I've looked at all the press stuff, and it's the same thing, and I want an explanation. Has the Risk Center been established? Is there another tracking center in the vicinity of the TOBB? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0092par0286	Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0093par0287	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, as lawmakers, we're not just the trustees of check junkies, but also the creditors of checks. They are paid in checks especially when producers in agriculture sell their products, and the cost of these people's products is not paid when the cost of one year's labor is not paid. Now, with this law, we're going to save those who cut the checks. Who's going to pay for this poor manufacturer from now on, how? How are we going to pay for this here and in the next world? I want an answer to that. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0094par0290	Mr. Chancer...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0095par0291	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, will this law, which is based on economic punishment for economic crime, apply to those who are unable to meet their obligations to banks or to lend? Is it especially going to apply to farmers, as Mr. Scholar Light has just asked? Are you prepared for this, or do you have any advice for those who apply it with your legal identity? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0096par0294	Mr. Kokturk...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0097par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, that the universal rule of law, the law of innocence, is innocent until the sentence of the person is finalized according to Article 38 of our Constitution, which consolidates this coherence in our internal law. However, despite this rule, when you're asked about prisoner and convict rates in prisons, you give them non-real numbers. I'd like to ask you, what's the total number of prisoners in prison right now? What are the ratios of prisoners and prisoners to each other?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0096par0297	Mr. Kusoglu...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0098par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, when Mr. President of the Commission was giving his speech, he said it was normal to have a 2% problem. Everyone's prediction this year that there will be a recession in the economy, that the economy will suffer, that there will be problems in business life. Moreover, considering millions of transactions have been made concerning the check, the problem of 2% will be seen to be very important, reaching 100,000. Again, of course, the burden of judgment will increase, the suffering will increase. As a public, has such a work as the Ministry been done, a projection study? I mean, how long will it take us to get back to where we were, or how much less? I wonder if this bill came to us without a study about it. That's what I want to ask you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0099par0302	Dear Sakek...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0100par0303	Mr. President, thank you. And I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary: In the last few days, there have been hunger strikes in many prisons. What are the reasons for these hunger strikes? Will the government share this with us? One. Second, there is an understanding that condemns everyone who opposes the Anti-Terror Law from seven to seventy. So we find this check law positive. Does the government have or does it not have a study of the Anti-Terror Law? I'd appreciate it if he could fill us in. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0101par0307	Mr. Agha...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0102par0308	Mr. Minister, Malatya is a city with 15 newspapers, 17 radios, 7 televisions, over 20 websites, with the most influential press organizations in the East and Southeast. Malatya is a city that has a say in the media area, but AKP has also punished Malatya in this area. 18 branch offices of Anadolu Agency across Turkey have been transformed into regional directorates. Malatya has remained the office manager of the Anadolu Agency, and has been linked to the district manager, Sivas. What size, what superiority does Sivas have in this area from Malatya? That's what I want to ask you. Furthermore, Malatya, which has been reduced to the state's private administration, sent to other institutions despite the fact that they do not want the workers, is being punished once again for shutting down the meteorological Regional Directorate Elazığ, Sugar, Tekele and Sumer factories. What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0103par0311	Mr. Cloud...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0104par0312	Mr. Minister, the victim of the poor economy's government is a demand for a solution to the welfare of citizens, but because of those who use this approach with malicious intent, because of those who look ill-intentioned, are you building the basis for the creation of the bond mafia to collect their debts?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0103par0313	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0105par0314	I'd like to ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan/in his statement that all information collected at the Turkish Union's Risk Center will be opened to third parties. In fact, it doesn't make much sense for his creditors in the risk event. Think of it this way, when the creditors can't collect their money, other than the information they've received from the Risk Center, is it in your work that the Bank Association is building a fund for creditors? Is the Risk Center just an exchange of information, or do you have any thoughts on a fund-raiser that might help them step in and help the banking sector in the face of debt that isn't paid for by creditors? I'd like you to explain that.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0103par0315	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0106par0316	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, Mr. Alim Ik, have asked me how much money has been collected in the criminal fine pen since 2003, and here's a question about what's been going on for two years, but right now, we can't give these questions to any of our friends -- we can't, it's not in our hands, it's in our hands, it's in our hands. If they see fit, let's examine it and give them the correct answer in writing. Mr. Reşat Hashak, of course, has expressed a problem with the animal loan of a citizen from the town of Blessing, of Resadiye, and has raised a similar question, Mr. Şandir. Like this arrangement for Czech victims, will there or will there be an arrangement for those who use these loans? Of course, it's only about banks. So this arrangement can be perceived as an arrangement for the victims of the check, because they're going to benefit from it, but it's basically the end of a process that has been going on since 2001, with the amendment to the Constitution. Of course, it has nothing to do with other people, which I don't know about at the moment, in the government. Right now...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0107par0318	Is that a precedent for judgment?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0106par0319	I'm telling you right now, this kind of work is not in the government's hands right now. I've spoken to the ministers, but as of right now, that's not working. Is that okay in the future? There's no way we can say anything about him now, but as of now, I'd like to make it very clear that there is no such work.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0107par0320	How about an example, sir?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0106par0321	Another question was asked by Mr. Oktay Ozturk, and by our fellow lawmakers. Of course, the Czech Law came up less than ten days later. There are people who are victims because he didn't pay the checks. In fact, the Czech Law has been on Turkey's agenda for a long time, not ten days. Following the changes made in the Constitution in 2001, arrangements were made for the Czech Law in 2003, 2008, and at different times. In Parliament, the commissions discussed this matter in a very detailed way. All the groups in Parliament agreed on the removal of the prison sentence while the latest arrangement was being made. This is not an issue that came up in a matter of two days, but a decision that came out of a study that was discussed by both the economy and the tradespeople, all the representatives, all the partners. Of course, there's not much of a motion at the moment, but there are three proposals that I know of. One is about the vote of the groups -- if they agree -- it's about the statute of limitations; the other is just a proposal from the law. This isn't a new study. Of course, many of our friends have also expressed the lack of protection of creditors while protecting the victims of the check. The check is essentially money-wise, and when people look people in the eye, they don't get a check, so there's a study, there's a research responsibility for them, they do it, they take it accordingly, but, of course, the person who gets a check when they're short on payments is also a victim. There's a system in the Central Bank right now, they can take advantage of it, they can get it from other sources, but as of now, the risk plant is going to be built, and it's going to be completely open to everyone, and the people involved will be able to get more information about the person who came in and gave it a check. Of course, he'll also be able to do private research, and he'll do that. Of course, it's also important that the amount in the bank if the check goes unrequited is up to a thousand TL, because the bank will do an examination according to it when it gives the check. In fact, this arrangement will bring value to the check, because the fact that the threat of prison has been eliminated will also make it easier for those who have taken a check and paid a check to make it easier for them to ally with the wealth and dignity of the check. So now we have a check app, which is no different than a bond. With our latest arrangement, we've brought in the deadline. For him, these arrangements, to me, are the arrangements to protect both the one who makes the check and the one who keeps the check, and to make sure that the check is valued, as if it were to be paid. I see him because he hasn't actually just been released from a check-related prison sentence. We get up, we give him a criminal fine first; when the fine is not paid, he's sentenced to death penalty. Even if you follow a very good lawyer to put a person in jail, even if you follow them day-to-day with a very good lawyer... I ask my friends here how long it takes to get a free check, can you give me a period of time? They give me a minimum of four to five years, so there's no quick jail time when it goes unrequited. Besides, there's no way he's going to jail when he pays the fine. So, in exchange for the check, the prison sentence, basically, has become a nonsensical sanction, so everybody's basically in a deception at this point, we're correcting it, we're doing the right thing. Not as far as I know, Mr. Ali Babacan is the Risk Center in TOBB. The Risk Center -- you know -- will be established by the Turkish Bank Association. After this law is passed, the Central Bank will issue a notice within two months, and we've also passed a law on the Risk Center -- you know -- it's passed Parliament, and I don't know what its latest condition is, but steps have been taken to implement the Risk Center within that law. The Minister's statement is that as of February, this place will also be operational. It's not about the TOBB, it's not about the TOBB. I'd like to state that it has something to do with the Risk Operatoration Central Bank Association. Now, Agababa, of course, expressed a question about Malatya, about the connection of the Anadolu Agency there to Sivas. Of course, these are administrative savings, more effective management regulations. Malatya also has other district managerships, others in other provinces. None of this is planned, not to punish or diminish, but to reward another place, but to have a more efficient understanding of governance. There are other troops in Malatiah, and they will be elsewhere. Mr. Kökturk, there are now 130,400 people in the penal and execution institutions who have been arrested and convicted. 93,671 have been convicted and 36,729 others are also under arrest.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0327	Madam Secretary, that's my objection.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0109par0328	That's not true.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0329	Now you're going to take prisoners for those of you who haven't been convicted?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0330	No, no. Look, now...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0332	Yeah, those odds are wrong...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0333	Can I have your attention?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0334	I'm listening.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0335	Mr. Kokturk, look, didn't you ask how many prisoners and prisoners he is now?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0336	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0337	And I'm telling you about the prisoners and the prisoners.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0338	What do you mean by convicted, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0339	No, no, I mean, about the prisoner...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0340	Is the court order finalized?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0341	Look...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0342	Is it finalized?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0343	Look, right now, there's a decision made by the Supreme Court, the final decision. There's a verdict on a court order that finally happened.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0344	Minister, the Constitution has a clear verdict.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0345	In this sense, the Supreme Court says he's convicted, but in order to make him a hundred percent guilty, it has to be finalized by the Supreme Court. I'm telling you, it's the Supreme Court's procedure. Okay?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0346	No, for the time being, he's...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0347	As of now, the court's execution is so, and as I've just stated, the number of convicts inside, 93,671, I've submitted the number of prisoners.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0348	Madam Secretary, your concept is not in accordance with criminal law!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0349	The rate of arrest is 28.1 per cent; the rate of conviction is 71.9 per cent.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0108par0350	Minister, we, then, have to get back to law school from here. That's not a concept!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0351	Another question from a friend is: Now, the number of bad checks that came out in 2011 is 594,836. The number of checks paid after being branded unrequited is 382,385, and the number of checks still unpaid is 212,451.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0111par0353	Your time is up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0112par0354	You are ruling out our questions!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0110par0355	Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't answer the other questions.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit03spe0113par0357	The negotiations on the entire bill are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0113par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 57th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 137, where we left off. Commission? Here. Government? Here. The talks on the entire bill were completed, and it was agreed to be passed on. PROGRAMING FOR CHANGES IN PURPOSE BLOOD ADADDE 1-14/12/2009 and the second statement of the 2nd article of Czech Law No. 5941, has been changed into the Turkish Central Bank of Turkey and added the bell to the seventh joke of the same article. When the check was printed, On the matter, Ankara MP Sinan Aydın Aygün on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0114par0013	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been on the stand for the first time since the day we entered the House since October 1st because there was nothing to discuss. When we arrived, we were looking at this: the people on the right were raising their hand, and we were lowering our hand on the left, and they were taking it down. Now, for the first time, I've made a commitment to this law. Yes, when this law came out in 2009, we went to visit our Minister of Justice, the current Minister of Justice; we went as a delegation of ten, as the Ankara Chamber of Commerce. We had second thoughts back then. And then Mr. Secretary said, "There's a good crowd here, let's do the survey here." What do you say about this law? At that time, we were coincidentally divided into five parts, so we hesitated whether we should be punished in the Czech or not. But we looked through this process, and we saw that there was no limit to it, and the nests began to fall apart, and people began to become miserable. It has turned out to be contrary to the Article 38 of the Constitution and Article 4 of the ECHR. On October 1st, as soon as Parliament opened, I told Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroglu that I would propose such a law, and he told me to prepare. I made my preparations, I took my legal offer to him. Then we presented it to Mr Muharrem İnce Bey, our Deputy Group President, and they looked at it, and they said it was appropriate. Then I didn't do it alone, I made an appointment with Mr. Justice Minister Sadullah Ergin. I presented him with the current case and the law proposal. We read letters from prison to my side together, and it was about an hour and a half. And he told me that he would take it to the government, that it could be held in the Parliament according to the state of government, and that the day that he was missed came today. He was supposed to come sooner, but other laws came into play. Now, as I see it here, both the Republican People's Party and other parties have entered a consensus, so I'm not going to talk much -- ten minutes, but -- but this law needs to be passed, and the law needs to be passed -- and we support this law, according to the official of the Turkish Union of Chamber and Stock Exchanges who came to visit both our Commission and the Turkish Union of Traders. There is, the president of the Istanbul Chamber of Commerce has made a statement, saying it's not appropriate to have a prison sentence in the check. Now, what is the current law? The man owes 10 lira, his check goes unrequited, he goes to the DA's office, it's $10, but they divide it into what we call a legal fine -- $100 a day, 10 thousand divided by 100 is 100 days -- you're either going to go to jail for 100 days, or you're going to pay that money. He goes to jail for 100 days, he goes to jail, he pays for it, but in this system, the existing law, our creditors don't have anything in their pocket, he gets the part that needs to be paid. Now, when you look at it, with this new check law, it will no longer have to pay the government a fine, it will increase the chances of a debtor getting paid. You're looking at 405,704 cases in 2004 alone, which make up 50 percent of the cases, there are 217,000 cases waiting in the Supreme Court again, and when you do, there's about 622,000 people waiting for that, waiting for that law. Some of them live in prison, some of them are on the run abroad, some of them are walking around using fake IDs because there are people who are getting fines, there are people who are about to get out, there are people waiting in the Supreme Court. That's why we think this law needs to be passed as soon as possible. I'll just read you the headlines of the letters from prison, and I won't go into them much: we never said we'd never pay our debts. We've been trading for years, and we've paid off all our debts in this last period, but whatever happened, we've had a setback, and as a result, they all came together, and I'm in prison now. The real punishment is not for us, but for our families who are out there, he says. He says, "What is their sin? " Another prison letter says, "Don't you give the same punishment to the wives and children who are left behind by putting the head of this family in prison?" "Marriages are shaking, " he says. ▪ Does he say that a debt is paid at the prison? I've been in prison for 20 months, and I'm still in bed, he says. These letters go on and on. A citizen from northern Iraq called me last week. He's got a prison sentence for pro bono checks. I'm in northern Iraq, he says. I got a job there, I work there, I can't come to Turkey. So, this is the law, and I want to thank my Deputy Director of the Group, especially my own President. I'd like to thank Sadullah Ergin Minister, who has listened to me with great kindness, who has supported me once again here. And, of course, my other thank you, I'd like to thank the Council of Ministers for bringing it down here and bringing it down to us. I wish this law to be a blessing. Since I promised the group's deputy presidents I wouldn't say much, I'm gonna take four minutes, and I'm gonna call it off. I give you all my regards, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0115par0025	Thank you, Mr. Ayday. Mr Mehmet Günal of Antalya on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0116par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, it's a very controversial bill, but now that I'm looking at some reasons, the reasons for the law, and just looking at what my friends here from the ruling party said, I'm frankly surprised. So the courthouses have increased their workload, that's what they're saying first. Would it be only by changing the Czech Law to reduce the workload of courts? I mean, a lot of... a lot of cargo is just the number of files? I mean, I don't know, you said Ergenekon, you said sledgehammer, there's a lot of cases, there's thousands of pages of indictments. I think if you start by organizing these things, the workload will drop. Second, they give a lot of numbers. One of them says, "Sir, the official number is not a lie." The other one is telling the truth. The other one is saying something. Now, I don't understand, they call it the arrangement in 2003, they call it the arrangement in 2009. Who was in power? Sir, he was in a hurry. So, what happened? I mean, who created this sacrifice? Who victimized the creditors? Who victimized the Czech debtors? Who sacrificed those who couldn't pay? I'm really curious. Now, this feels a little weird. It's like we're in such a hurry to solve a problem, there's a social problem waiting. When did the problem come up, just now? So it was just a matter of today, something came up? There's an ambiguity here. My dear friends, on the one hand, there are those who can't pay their check, there are victims, there are those who are going to jail, there are those who are going to go on trial -- whether the number is not our concern, whether it's that, the prisoner, the prisoner, the figures -- hundreds of thousands of victims. If this arrangement does not happen, 100,000 people can go to prison. He says, "We don't know how true it is." Now, dear friends, when did all these people get sued, so it all happened in a year? Was it all before 2002? So what have we done for nine or ten years about solving this? I mean, I don't understand. Mr. Yilmaz Junior just said that there was no Risk Center at the time when he was in 2009. So, I'm asking you now, Mr. Secretary: Risk Center... and I'm asking on purpose, Mr. Minister. I was there when that bag was being debated by the law. As a Central Banker, I know where the Risk Center is, but there are things that are reflected in the press, and I've looked through five or six different sources, and they all say the Risk Tracking Center within the TOBB. Now, either Mr. Secretary said something different when he was reading, our friends read the TBB, the Turkish Bank Association as the TOBBB, the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges. There's nothing else. There's a freak here. And that's when the Minister slipped.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0117par0035	It could be Sehven.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0116par0036	So, since he's not here, Mr. Bozdağ is there now, I'm not saying anything. I asked the question on purpose. So, Mr. Bronze said, "Sir, because it's not the Risk Center." Why are you taking it off now, the Risk Center hasn't been established yet? I looked at him sitting down, and he said, "Look, you have a computer." There were numbers, but I looked at the regulations of the entire Bank of Banks, the Central Bank, the BDDK, and nothing about it has already been published in the Official Gazette. There's no Risk Center again, why are you making that law now? Okay, it's going to be built, but it's been a year since we said it's going to be built. Bag Law was the last law we passed here last year before we went to the election. You said it yourself, it's in Articles 149, 150. Well, now, what I'm trying to say, my dear friends, is that if the Justice and Development Party government comes up at that moment in confusion, someone will bring it up, sir, and we'll break this law. There's a confusion here. Now, dear friends, here, okay, check is a payment tool, and when these aren't paid, there are some charges being brought in, let's lift the prison sentence, let's fine them. And what about those who, on the other hand, can't collect your check? You have to keep a balance, so that's the basis of being fair. Pull up a pay-per-view. So, if this is guaranteed, what about the assurances, the assurances that we put in the banks, if it's not enough, what's the return of this economy going to be? How do we do that? So this time they're going to start asking for more guarantees. For citizens who are already in trouble, let's take the credit. He says, "He's going to the bank." If he already had collateral, why would he go to the bank and apply for a loan guarantee or something? But he's leaving, and he says, "I'd like a guarantee of real estate." Well, now, if we can't keep her balance, no one will be shopping with a check tomorrow. Okay, it's not a check-term payment tool. We said it's not like a check-in, it's paid when it's seen. That's what we've been taught, but we need to balance this well, and we need to put the amount of collateral in a deterrent, and we need to set the bank's responsibility accordingly. Now, my dear friends, there are other problems besides this workload. He just mentioned the numbers, my friend Yilmaz, the ruling representative, I don't think I saw him in the living room, and here he told our friends that it's true, it's a lie. I'll read you the numbers, the numbers of the Federal Reserve, anyway, without looking, we have them. Let's see where it comes from. Don't fool the citizens just by saying the number of cases. If the guy didn't get any results from the case, why would he go to court and file charges? If he can't collect from the court, there's no point in opening this case. Now let me read to you, if one word is wrong... there's a friend of ours from the Federal Reserve. Mr. Secretary told us about the senior year, thanks to you, it's going to be over 544,000. I'm reading to you: 2002, the return check goes to 742.968, 831, 893,000, 1 million, 66,000, 1 million, 144,000, 1 million, 324 grand. The last time, at the top of the crisis, 1,900 or so, with a little bit of economic recession in the last year, there's already a certain thing in the checks, you know, when people can't collect and collect it, there's no point in using a check anymore, everybody gets four or five credit cards, they get credit cards. This time, his credit cards become unpayable. You know, there are credit cards on companies. And how much is that? So the number of cases, the number of checks, and how much of a check is going on here? What's the total amount? Mr. Babacan gave me a round number, but it's not information, it's speculation. When we look at the total numbers of these checks, what does it add up to? How much of the economy have we not been able to turn? Well, we're looking at the bonds the same way. In the same way, I'm giving you the National Bank data, dear friends: 1,500 in 2008; 1,600 in 2009; 1,100 in 2010; that's how it goes. So, if you see a little drop in the last year as a drop, I'm telling you where it came from: it's increased by a thousand times more, a thousand times more. Oh, now that it's dropped from a thousand to 900 times, if you're saying it's a success, we have nothing else to say. Citizens, first of all, it's important to get them out of prison, of course, but first you have to create an economic model that pays the debt, the bond debt, the credit debt, the credit card debt, the economic system, the production, the investment. So if you support an economic model that consumes without producing, what's it going to do? There's a limit to the production, whether he's going to apply for a credit card or he's not going to be able to pay his check, or he's going to take one place and deposit the other, or there's going to be a protest. It's not just about taking precautions, it's about making sure it doesn't happen. So raising the power of the citizen to pay, the tradesman, the merchant, the industrialist, that's the problem here. If we can't do that, then the arrangements we're going to make here will be about measures taken after work and the reduction of damage. So, in addition to these arrangements, we say, let's bring an economic system where these people can pay their debt, pay their checks, their bonds, return the economy, pay the debt of small tradesmen, SMEs, artists. Let's put out a model that's not dependent on imports, prioritizes production, investments, implements regional incentives that you've always said but couldn't do. Then you'll see, you won't have to give the court numbers. After we produce it, after we invest it, everyone's going to pay your check, pay your bill, but at a minimum in any economy, of course, there's going to be people who can't pay, and there's going to be mean people who can't. With the arrangements we're going to make, we're going to have to get them out of here, and those who need to be punished will get punished. So, let's not distract the citizen as if we're doing something very big here, not solving the issue of years by ourselves when we've been in power for nine years, as if we're doing something urgent today. Mr. Secretary, let's make fair arrangements to look after both the victims of the check and those who can't get what they can get. So let's organize the amount of collateral, and the relevant materials -- our friends have opposition arguments, representatives of the opposition party -- and let's take that into consideration. Or we'll keep complaining, beating water in the air. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank you all for that, and I advise you to make it a fairer bill, considering these suggestions. My respects.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0118par0055	Thank you, Mr. Günal. First word for the individuals, Mr. Ismail Kashdemir of Çanakkale.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0119par0057	I won't talk.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0118par0058	Okay. Mr. Fehmi Cubic...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0120par0061	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own person regarding the 1st Amendment to Czech Law, 137 rows, 5941. I hereby salute your high council and our beloved nation. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in fact, with this bill, 1) The principle of economic punishment for economic crime is to be removed from the criminal act of mischarging bad checks, 2) The principle stated in our Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights is that no one can be deprived of their freedom because of their debt, preventing people from entering the prison, 3) The aim is to prevent lawsuits related to Czech crimes, which constitute 12 per cent of the cases filed in criminal courts, from coming to the courts. In terms of workload data in 2010, the number of cases stemming from Czech laws is 405,704. This number constitutes 50 per cent of the cases filed in civil courts, 36 per cent of the cases filed under special law, and 12 per cent of all criminal cases, which constitute an important part of the workload within the justice mechanism. In the Supreme Court alone, four agencies have been assigned, and the number of files in the Supreme Court of Appeals of 217,165 is 53,544. And the most interesting statistic is that the number of prisoners found in penal and execution institutions because the fine was not paid -- under the current law 5941 -- is 140. Therefore, one of the fundamental principles of criminal law, the principle of measurement, which is held in Article 13 of our Constitution, is proportional and the last resort of criminal law, the second principle of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is also the first clause of the 4th Protocol of the European Convention, and the principle of the Constitution, which is set up in Article 38, is that it cannot be removed from its freedom due to failure to fulfill the obligation from the contract, and the principle of the right of the Constitution, which is set up in Article 141. In fact, with this bill, with the amendment to this social case, which does not comply with the fundamental principles of criminal law and does not serve the purpose that is expected in practice, and in terms of the number of execution laws, One: In practice, obstruction of the judicial mechanism, pro bono check which has already been removed from sanctioned commercial life is not only a crime in terms of criminal law, but the check has not been de facto sanctioned in order to ensure that it does not cause a failure to cause a seizure and circulation in economic life and not be sanctioned. Hakeza, the legal responsibility is already in progress, and the criminal norms related to criminal responsibility are already in question, in terms of counterfeit, stolen, and so on. In this metaphor, it is in accordance with the 1st article of the bill I have promised, and in accordance with the arguments I've just said, that free cheques have been exchanged with this bill, that they have been removed from being legal sanctions and turned into administrative sanctions, and, legally, in the case of law enforcement of the bill, the amount of those records of the Czech Law No. 5941 will not be legally possible, has been made legally possible, and has been placed in the second section of Article 2 of Article 2 of the 2 of the Czech Law, and has been changed into the form of the Turkish National Bank of Turkey, and has been written in the seventh chapter of Article 2 of the law, and has been put on the basis of the basis of each account of every amount of the bank. Dear lawmakers, I sincerely believe that this establishment, which has already lost its practical function with my oppressor, will contribute seriously to the acceleration of our justice mechanism in the event of law enforcement, will be economic positive and will ultimately contribute seriously to the strong economy and forward democracy that we have committed to our beloved nation. No doubt that appreciation for this bill is of the high council, of the high council, of the high council. I sincerely welcome all of you to the unity of this nation, the people of this country, and the law of the brotherhood, and I salute you all with my most heartfelt feelings for changing the law on 137 rows.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0121par0073	Thank you. I'm going to move on to the question-and-answer process. Dear Light.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0122par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you've created many victims from that day, with a fine brought to the check in 2003. During the last talks in 2009, we told you to drop the fine. We said, "You didn't lift it, you made a commitment for two years." Now, I'm asking you: how many people have ever been able to pay off loans, according to the regulation since the last change in 2009? After this arrangement, what improvement can be made for these people to pay their debt? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0123par0079	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0124par0080	Mr. President, we don't have any healthy data on this right now. It's a matter of research, of study. They also asked for Mr. Light in the question-answer section on the entire bill. This is a subject we can answer after we've been examined. Let's send a written reply to Mr. Light after we've studied it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0123par0081	Mr. Kuyoglu.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0125par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, we get a lot of e-mails and letters about the law. There are a lot of questions about this transition period in particular. They also ask why there are no more obligations brought to the banks. Really, why don't we bring more obligations to the banks? Because the check has a handler, a handler, and one side is a bank. Shouldn't there be more obligations? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0126par0085	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0127par0086	I thank you. This is important. So we have stated that it would be right to bring more collateral obligations to banks like you in our talks, in our debates, but it turns out that the banks, in practice, are now paying every single check leaf for $655. Now, with this bill, it goes up to a thousand TL. When you make it 1,500, 2,000, that's when you make it bigger, we find out that the banks are asking for collateral from the people they're giving the check stubs to about these things. The more you multiply the number, the more you increase the guarantees the banks will get, and then of course, the people who use the checks get into trouble, and there's a recession in the market. In fact, I think it's right to lower this rate in terms of more people using checks, because it's easier for banks to use this check, but the more this number goes up, the higher the amount the bank will pay for each check leaf, the higher it'll get, of course, and the more it wants guarantees to guarantee itself. Of course, this will cause more checks to turn on the market and especially the small tradesman's use of checks to arise. So it's not the way to increase this guarantee, or it's not really good for the banks to increase it. On the other hand, there's no objections, there's no hard feelings, but it's very clear that it's going to be against the citizens because they've guaranteed themselves. So we think it's best that this increase should be kept to a reasonable level, in view of the practice against the citizens.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0126par0088	Mr. Sesame...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0128par0089	Mr. Secretary's statement is that he's not really looking at it from a lot of bankers' perspective, but I think he's looking at it in terms of the market, but I don't think he is, and it doesn't matter if you go from $600 a check card to a thousand, it's not a liability, it's not a liability, it's not enough to prevent the ulterior motives in the Czech Law, because he gives 25 pages $25,000 as collateral letters, but he can do anything if he's willing to do anything. The question our friends here ask is, have you ever set up banking as a government to build a system in the banking system that can insure a check system? In this regard, a valued member of your party has a motion to present in the group as well as in this sense. I think it's a valid motion.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0126par0092	You still have time. It's just a minute of habit. I'm sorry. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0128par0094	In that sense, you have to look at it this way. I have one more question. Second, we're taking out this law, we're taking out the prison sentence. Some of the creditors who received a check ask me today: I took a check thinking about the past law. I got these checks because there's this law, and there's this sanction. Now, what are you going to do about the checks I've taken in the past when you passed this law? What will be the assurance of the checks that I have received in trust with that law? How do you feel about that?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0126par0096	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0129par0097	Thank you. Of course, there's no such thing as insurance right now. Like you said, there's no way we're going to get any guarantees. If the checks are related to the checks currently available in the market, the law will be able to apply for all checks if it goes into effect. But while this law is under way, I've just stated that all of these issues have been discussed and discussed with all of the partners. That's one. Second of all, the check is not a valuable document without collateral right now. When you look at the application, a restraining order will continue. The bank's obligation to pay up to a thousand TL will force banks to investigate and pay more careful checks. On the other hand, the fact that the risk plant is alive will allow people who receive a check to get a better check as a result of research. Also, there is no reason for criminal action against people if they try to harm professional people in other ways, to cheat the market, to cheat people by giving them bad checks. Under the general provisions, there is the possibility of criminal action against those who use a check to defraud a citizen. Such practices were performed before 1985. In the process after this law has been adopted, except for those who have not paid a check due to the fact that it has fallen into really payability, but who have not paid a check due to the impossible, if there is any other crime that is consistent with fraud or action for those who are acting on purpose and purposely and willingly and unwilling to harm citizens, they will be punished within the framework of general provisions. The other thing is, right now, there's no prison sentence in practice. What's on the app? There's a fine. When he does not pay the fine, he will be sentenced to death penalty. Before that, there was no direct prison sentence; first there was a punishment, a fine, followed by a repeat prison sentence. When you look at it, since 2001, in the application of the Czech Law, Parliament has made legal arrangements to allow a change in this matter to live long enough for our nation to live. We've seen the period of imprisonment, and we've applied the form of the prison sentence as perpetuity, and there's also been a process of being sentenced to imprisonment during the execution of a criminal fine, and we've seen that all three of them have not been granted the desired benefit. So we need to do the right thing, the 38th Amendment of the Constitution, and the requirement of international law, and we need to implement mechanisms where citizens are not victims. At the moment, we are making an arrangement that will enable the mechanisms that will not be victimised by our citizen, but also by doing so in the right way. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0130par0105	Thank you. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Article 3 of Article 3 of Law 2 - 5941 has been changed into substantive subtitles in the form of (also referred to in the sixth and sixth joke), and the following joke has been added to the article. The amount of responsibility the bank has to pay according to the third joke is concluded if the check is not reported within five years of the printed date. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Mr. Turgut Dibek. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0131par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, I have made a pledge on the 2nd Amendment on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. First of all, I salute you with respect. First of all, as we meet here last night, we leave here at night, but today, we discuss the agenda of the day, the change in the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Security and the changes in the rights of these prisoners and prisoners. I mean, we slept together in the evening, something different, we woke up in the morning, something different. Why did this happen? I didn't get a very satisfying answer when we met with friends. I think it's next week. Of course, if that's how Turkey is run, I'll leave it to you, dear friends, and the public. Now this law, dear friends, has been constantly debated in Turkey until such changes were made. We couldn't solve the problem. So there was a prison sentence before, from one year to five. Again, these files -- I was in the courthouse -- at that time, our fellow lawyers here knew -- thousands, hundreds of thousands of cases of checks were going on in the courthouse, and they were never missing. Then a different method was followed, and it was said: "Ya, this prison sentence doesn't solve the business, let's follow a different path. Here, as you know, it has become a criminal fine. A prison sentence is to be brought after him. We made an arrangement about him last year -- again, I was in the Justice Commission, and we said he wouldn't solve it -- and on that day -- the problem is not solved. You're looking at different numbers again. Here, millions of files, hundreds of thousands of files either waited in the Supreme Court, sir, waiting in the local courts. And because it's on the agenda all the time, so it's like paying checks -- and I'm telling you, of course -- they didn't go on the road, there's going to be an arrangement, it's being called on the agenda of Turkey anyway. Again, this, like this, it's stuck in drag, it's gone. In fact, this should have been resolved before, dear friends. Mr. Secretary also says that our orator friends who came up here, who stood on the stand, talked from time to time. There was a change in our Constitution in 2001, when a joke was added to Article 38. In fact, that joke was supposed to be resolved, dear friends. I mean, it's been ruled by the Constitution, not just the check, that people can't be taken from their freedoms because they clearly failed to fulfill their obligations due to the contract. Look, maybe after a while... Now, there's a package that the Minister of Justice has announced that he will come to Parliament in the coming days to speed up this trial. Maybe there's a crime we call a violation of the code of conduct. So, in regard to the debtor, in exchange for the debt, I pledge to pay the debt in this manner at this time. When he does not pay, he will be charged with a prison sentence as well as our Emancipation and Bankruption Act. We need to move this, too. I mean, that's clearly against the Constitution's 38th Amendment. I mean, jail time wasn't supposed to be on the subject of this kind of private law, it wasn't supposed to be about buying. Oh, now, there are so many people looking for me and you. It's such a subject, dear friends, you know, if you spit up the mustache, spit down the beard. I mean, there's a letter, and our friends have just read it, and they sent it to me. Thus says the debtor, saying that even God will not forgive his servant; and how do you forgive him? Now, from that point of view, these people are really troubled, victims. So at the end of this, someone's gonna get hurt, and there's no way they can't, but somehow the system needs to be integrated as it is. So maybe there'll be a six-month, a year of transition. In the meantime... as a Czech victim, we're talking check debtors. Here are the check creditors. Aren't we the victims? They're victims, as far as I'm concerned, they're the victims. I think some of them will get hurt. They'll suffer, they won't be able to collect. Well, since he can't collect, maybe he's got a check he's making, a check he's making, a check he's cutting, and he's not gonna be able to pay his own check. So he's going to have that kind of situation, because these are chains. So if I can't get what I'm getting... which is a lot of government-related, government-owned contractors, who didn't get what they were getting from the government, but in the meantime, they cut a check in exchange for their own debt, and it all went unrequited. These kinds of people are bound to happen, but I believe that in a short time, maybe six months, in a year, this system is the right system. We, the Republican People's Party, support this law. Our congressman, Mr Sinan Aygün, has already offered to make a change, Ali Riza Ozturk, and I want to make it clear to you first. By the way, we were talking on the commission -- Mr. Minister isn't here, he's in Istanbul -- so I'd really like to have our Minister of Justice here when this law is being discussed -- and I think he'd like to have his work done there -- and I asked him, our friends there -- these numbers don't reflect the truth, and I don't know how accurate -- I asked him about the number of files that are waiting in the court of justice, and the number of files that are waiting in the local courts. He said there's a file waiting at the Supreme Court about 220,000, and more than 400,000 files are waiting in local courts for a check of around 600-650,000, waiting for this amendment. By the way, we've been talking about this, though. The number of prisoners and prisoners found in the prison. I'd actually like to say a few words about him. It's actually your, dear friends, I think it's your mirror. I'm talking about our friends, the ruling group, the Prime Minister and the ministers. Dear friends, people in prison over 130,000. We have friends at the Human Rights Commission, who go to prisons from time to time. I see that they're very good at detecting this. Two people use a bed in prisons, not at the same time. One sleeps at night, the other sleeps in the morning, dear friends; twelve hours one, twelve hours one. It's what happens in prisons. 130,000 people... even Mr. Minister said: "We are building 38 new prisons. " I, of course, found it interesting to build 38 new prisons, I asked: "We are changing this Czech Law." There are no new prisoners coming from here. Here, 600 thousand files will be removed from the process. Why do we need 38 new prisons? So there are new waves? I said, are the new criminal organizations gonna show up? Mr. Secretary, here, we're renovating some of it. He said, "Dear friends." Look, dear friends, when you arrived, in your time, in 2005 -- I looked here at the numbers -- there were 56 thousand people in prisons, 56 thousand people. The AKP is in its third year of work, 2005, and today there are 130,000 people. Look at the years, where it's coming from in such stages. So from 56 thousand to 130, even 131,000. He just said the number, Mr. Secretary, about 70,000, 75,000 extras are currently lying in prisons during your time. What I think is, in plain logic, when we think of it as an ordinary citizen, why would friends go to prison? If we are in a peaceful country -- as you say -- our citizens, if people living in Turkey are happy, if they have money in their pockets, if their business is spinning, why should they commit crimes? Why would they be mad? Why should people get up and go in different ways? You know, there's this thing about a king naked, and I actually think that these numbers are the king naked from your point of view. I think they're very clear on his expression. You need to take a look at this first. So in modern societies, in democracies, when people are in prison three times, twice as many, there has to be an apocalypse in that country. On the contrary, we grew up nine percent. We brought peace to the country. You're in a number of words like that. I think you should face yourself first, dear friends. I mean, I really mean it. What's with all the numbers? I looked at the numbers. There are 35,000 arrests in the world for terrorism, 35,000, 36,000. So they're under arrest for the crime of terrorism. Total, the whole number of the world. The number in Turkey is valuable friends, about 13,000, 14,000, for committing terrorism. Now, high school kids, they had this YGS code, so they opened up a banner called the Resistance High School Boys. They became members of a terrorist organization because of that banner. Because of the action that happened in Hopa, because of the incident in Hopa, the young ones acted at work, and cut their hair. They've become members of a terrorist organization in this country. We have to figure this out first, my dear friends. I'm running out of time, though. Now, I think that's our main issue. That's the bottom line. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The late Erbakan has a very good saying, you know that, dear friends. When you talk about things like that, the process is over, but I'll tell you -- it's either surgery or surgery. So you think it's a job dressing. I think the bottom line is, I think we need to settle other issues. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0132par0136	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Lütfü Türkkan.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0133par0138	Mr. President, valued members, I will speak on behalf of the National Party of Action on Article 2 of the 137th Amendment. I think the definition of this concept should be done well first. The check is primarily a payment tool around the world, but unfortunately it's a financing tool in Turkey. Today the market says that the check is available for $300 billion. The most important factor in this check coming into play as a financing argument is the fact that there is an sanction against the fact that the check is not paid. If, as soon as we get that sanction back, the checks that go around the market are no different than the bonds that don't go around now. In these markets, which are already suffering from liquidity, you'll see, with the checks out, it's going to affect a very serious exchange. The shopping with this check doesn't really interest the big companies. Today, in a global sense, on the scale of Turkey, serious big companies don't get checks from their clients anyway. The dealer who buys goods from any major factory pays on payday, and he pays on payday. If he's not paying, he'll apply for a letter of collateral from the company that sells goods. Those mid-sized SMEs and tradesmen who were victimised by the Czech law, all of whom we call the middle direct, which were increasingly destroyed by your power. They're the most victims of the check. Well, of course I don't want to cut the check and tell you that it wasn't the victim who was in prison. Sleeping in a prison isn't like sleeping backstage here. There are four fines there, 16 square meters, and since their business didn't really work out, there's no telling who's lying there because they can't pay off their debt. But how many of these are there? Is it necessary for them to make only the law? Someone told me: "There are 2,50,000 files. If there are too many files for a crime that require their forgiveness, everyone in Turkey will be drug traffickers, files will be collected, drugs will be released. That doesn't make sense. The number of files doesn't require forgiveness. There's a check -- there are traders among you -- you go before it goes unrequited, you renovate it a few times. If this isn't paid after renovating, you can print the back and start legal processing. Mr. Secretary has just stated that, legally, five years is minimum due to a check for criminal sanctions against a check. In those five years, the man whose job was broken is already recovering. There's only debtors who pay when you wait for detention there and decide on the full bill. The lawyer knows, he's following closely. He waits five years, he gets a full sentence, then he leaves, he deposits the money. Look, here, the debtor is a very serious victim by waiting five years. If it's a big number, he'll take the fine he gave me and come out after that. An application can be done here: Look, friends, rightfully in debt... in which period of time, serious interest, default interest, fees, custody fees will remove the prison sentence that deposits the principal money of that file debt, removes the prison sentence instead of the judicial fine, and the legal process related to the other will continue. But when you drop the prison sentence, the fine will be nullified. Look, Mr. Ali Babacan's statement today is: "There are no prison sentences in many parts of Europe." That's the wrong expression. In Europe, today in Germany, today in England, the person who did not pay for the check committed fraud. Because the money I have in the bank in Europe also means go ahead and withdraw it. It's an act of fraud when a man who doesn't have money in the bank cuts a check. There's only one chance we can handle the prison sentence in the check. I would especially like to address the Deputy Director of the Justice and Development Party: Mr. Ahmet Aydın, please do a study on this matter as your group. As in Europe, Turkey now has a concept called insurance policy. It's going very slowly, it hasn't developed in Turkey yet. You pay a bill, you insure it in a margin that matches the creditability of the firm you're owed this bill to. If you can't get it, you get your money from the insurance company. The insurance company pays you the same day anyway. If you can't provide it, if you pull the check, you'll see that the trade will be severely compromised. I'm claiming that in a year's time, the changes to this law will surely come to this House again. It's not the right law. He's coming to all of us, rightfully, his parents, his brother, the people who were in prison are the victims, he's coming here, he's whining to you, he's whining to us, but there's a system. It wouldn't be right to destroy this system all over again and undo a few people's victims. Of course, we're human beings with our emotions, but we're also people who have to create this system, and that's what we're here for. There's one other thing, look, this government has a very important action that I appreciate, and Turkey has bent the Mafia's very serious back, I admit, I appreciate it, thank you. But look, do you believe that these cheque collectors will come back into action after this law, and there is no other organization except one PKK (the only one) who is now organized, capable of collecting the check. For your information, you opened a new income door to the PKK other than smuggling cigarettes. You'll see it here, you'll hear it. He just asked a question, a friend of ours from the Republican People's Party. There's a check on the market for about $300 billion with checks for about three months in advance. We're going to make this law, and we're going to tell the people who owe $300 billion that God will bring his work and his power, brother. Your name is Ahmet, and Allah is with you. Whatever you're going to do, you're going to wear your gun, you're going to pick up your property, or you're going to get your money. I'll put one more matter into your mind, and then I'll finish my words, sir. Here we read the reform package prepared by the Justice Department. Here's what we came up with in that reform package, so that you can understand the victims of the creditors: you're not going to be able to remove anything from anyone's house. Nobody collects money from someone by lifting their stuff, it's harassment, so it's a way of convincing the debtor to pay off his debt. Second, you will not be able to go to the factory and get the machine, and you will not be able to tie it up. Believe it or not, we're making some very serious decisions that can stop the commercial activities of all medium-sized businesses. And the comeback from that is going to have to be us again in the very near future, but it's not the right system to run the country through trial and error. Look, we do this in foreign affairs. A book called Stratagegic Çukur was once written, followed by the strategic Çukur, which became very bad with the testing system of Turkey's relations with its neighbours, and Turkey turned into alum. Everyone punches Turkey, France punches Iran, Iraq punches Iraq, Syria punches... you can tell Libya separately, it's the same thing for Egypt. So has Turkey's issue in terrorism. And with the method of trial and error... you said, "We're taking it out." You said, "You met it with drums," and now the same men, no, we've done it wrong. Whatever the mayor, the scientist, we're letting them in this time. I don't know if it's true at all, but the country can't be ruled by trial and error, to say that... find the truth, then act. Let's take a look at this, if it's true, if it's true, we'll move on, or we'll give up. With this system, the country will become a tool of the Justice and Development Party. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0134par0156	Thank you, Mr Turkkan. Congressman Bilal Flightr? Karaman MP Mevlüt Akgün? Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0135par0159	Mr. President, I want a word, too.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0134par0160	Mr. Mevlüt is coming. Wait a second, let him speak, Mr. Young. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0136par0162	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 2nd Amendment to the Czech Law, 137 rows in which we are discussing. I salute the grand jury. My dear friends, with this bill, the prison sentence for misdemeanor checks has been eliminated. In drafts and proposals, the prison sentence applied to a bad check is applied to the 38th article of our Constitution, as well as the European Convention on Human Rights No. 4th. It is stated that it is contrary to the Lu Protocol. According to this, no one can be denied his freedom simply because he failed to fulfill a contractary obligation. Economic punishment for economic crime is being carried out by the Constitution and international agreement provisions. A ten-year ban on arranging a check and opening a checking account is imposed on a person who makes a promissory check by giving up the application of a legal fine by the bill. My dear friends, in Article 2 of the bill, the bank's responsibility will be raised to a thousand lira per check if the check fails to comply. It has also been corrected as a request, not a complaint to the state's attorney's office within six months of the crime. Because the punishment for the act has been transformed into administrative sanctions. The second joke of the matter is a proper arrangement. As of five years from the date of the pressure written on the check, the bank's obligation to pay is eliminated if it is not registered. Thus, after printing the cheque card, it is wanted to avoid passing through the market for many years. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, as I see it, all groups support the bill that lifts the prison sentence on a bad check. My dear friends, but I must say that the check is a cambio deed, unlike any other kambio in Turkish practice, that has private confidence in public confidence. Many tasks in business life are performed, and sometimes prison sentences play a deterrent role in building that trust. We must not cause turmoil, crisis of trust, and new problems in commercial life when the prison sentence is lifted. In the Constitutional Court's decision dated 17/03/2011, the Constitutional Court finds it appropriate to impose a criminal fine on a bad check and a prison sentence if it is not paid. Therefore -- as I said in the committee talks -- it is imperative that we protect the well-intentioned creditors, which have become creditable by selling goods and based on the trust function of the check in the market, otherwise the ill-intentioned creditors will be rewarded. I think we need to consider this situation and arrange the provisions to protect the well-intentioned creditors as the entire House. For this purpose -- it has been expressed exponentially -- the creation of a risk control system in the Central Bank is a guarantee, but I also think that measures should be considered, such as establishing an active executive bankruptcy system, limiting the check, creating an insurance system to repair the damage done in a bad check, increasing the responsibilities of banks in this sense. With these thoughts, I wish the bill well, with respect.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0137par0169	Thank you. Mr. Bilal Ufsir, this is Denizli MP.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0138par0171	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the 2nd Amendment to the Czech Law, 137 rows under discussion. I hereby salute your high council. Before I begin with my words, I'm informing you of the French Senate's decision that once again puts the ugly face of the Crusader mentality on the stage. This great nation, which they declared a sick man a hundred years ago, is now safely again on its way to the great Turkey, while France is suffering from malaria. No matter what those who vomited their centuries of hatred and hatred at the Turkish nation in order to put their own desperation off the agenda, this holy nation will build the great Turkey again, and no power will hold us back from this path. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are subject to a formal complaint of falsifying checks according to the current law, while a new regulation is being converted into administrative sanction based on demand. For this reason, the statement is changed in the article III of Law 5941, which is mentioned in the sixth verse of Article III. In addition to the pattern conditions of the check, the printing date will also be written on the check. When the Czech leaves are not returned to banks or given to banks, there is uncertainty because there is no limit for a period of time. If the transaction is not submitted to the bank within five years of the date of writing on the check, the responsibility for the bank's payment will also be terminated. I salute the High Council with the best wishes of this arrangement.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0139par0177	Thank you, Mr. Flyer. Moving on to QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0140par0180	Mr. Secretary, do you plan to fund a hedge fund or a check insurance fund similar to the Credit Guarantee Fund, and contribute to the recovery of many victims who have been in prisons for failing to pay their debts so far? Would you consider adding that to this bill with a motion? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0139par0182	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0141par0183	Thank you. There have been similar questions before. Of course, there has to be a study about the establishment of such a guarantee fund. Is that right, how much, where will it be, etcetera, the experts have to work on it. There's no such study at the moment, but I'm also going to pass this request on to our ministers on to the economy, but there's no such study right now, so I think it'd be nice, but I'm going to pass it on to my interested friends.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0142par0185	That's not the answer. These people won't be able to pay their debts again.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0143par0186	Mr. Chancer, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0144par0187	Minister, your answer to the question is unsatisfactory. Our citizens are watching us. Our people, our people, even our people who are in prison, are waiting for an answer from you, and the people who can't collect the check are waiting for an answer from you. You've been running the country for ten years, we still don't have a thought, we don't have a preparation. Is this really happening? Now our people are watching us. So what do we say? Now, because of the failure to collect the check victim or the check, the victims have set up a platform, and they want an answer from you. You're not an audience in the stands. Please, it's been ten years, not being able to come up with a solution, saying there's no preparation for it, so it's not a job, so please say something. So there's a victimization, and it's the economic policies of the political power that's been running the country for ten years... the numbers are there, say something, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0143par0188	Mr. Yellowhead...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0145par0189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, messages are coming down on all our phones, including today. With these messages, how do we work, how do we do business, and how do they all want to ask questions, questions, with this check law? Secondly, how are we going to do that, by the way -- by the way -- about our friends who have the check and are really victimized and can't collect it and can't get that assurance? If we pass this law, we will be victims. They are spoken of. Now, of course, when we consider this from a legal standpoint, there may be different consequences, but what you just said about these banks...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0146par0193	Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0147par0194	Mr. Secretary, in practice so far, we've got a citizen in prison who's paid the fine. However, that citizen's debt wasn't paid, and the creditors didn't get the money. It was Mehmet Simsek who took the money, he went to the treasure. What about all that money? Are you planning on returning those funds? He didn't get what he was owed, and he didn't lose what he owed, so that money went to the treasure. Do you think after this law, those coins will be returned to the creditors? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0146par0196	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0148par0197	Yeah, thank you, too. Of course, what Mr. Shandir said here is that we answer our own questions while we answer them. There may be an answer that you would appreciate, an answer you wouldn't appreciate, that's a job you would know, but there's no fund-raiser for an incident that happened here that I, as Minister, did not. I say, express it, the truth. But on the other hand, it's not right that the people whose check bounced, the check bounced, that they're going to be victims and that they're going to be very bad, that they're not going to be able to collect any more money at all. For example, today, it is not only a check, it is a bond or it is an execution, or it is carried out with other kinds of follow-up, and with the government's ability to collect from people who can't get what they can on time in a normal way. For one thing, this application doesn't go away, and after that, if the check goes unrequited, these will go to the collection circle, which is one. Two: There are hundreds of thousands of promissory checks in the past, if they have any conditions for a check fraud, when or when a special law has been passed and jail time has been imposed, or when a check sentence has been given as a restitution, or when the penalty for a check has been reduced to imprisonment, or when the punishment of a legal fine has not been executed in the last application. A lot of your friends gave me the numbers here, a lot of ours, and I have them. These are the years of sari, in 2000, in 2001, in the 90s, in the 80s, all the time. It's also during the time of the prison sentence. Did jail time keep those checks from bounced? It's not. That's why other steps have been taken. When you look at it, it's in every period, and now -- I've just expressed it -- in case the check bounced, it doesn't seem like a huge guarantee to be paid on time, because when you look at the application, when the check goes unrequited, even if all the work is followed on time, it takes five years or six years or four years or more to go to prison. That's all you're gonna do, you're gonna keep tabs on the guy who gave you the bad check, you're gonna have to keep an eye on everything, and then he's coming. When you look at it, the prison sentence has no deterrent in that regard. We see it very easily in practice. Now, with these arrangements, the establishment of the risk-substantiation centre and the implementation of it -- as of February 2012, the regulation will be established, because when the law comes out, a year is given, and this deadline expires on February 25, 2012 -- will once again make itself more secure in terms of who the people who received the check took the check from. On the other hand, the ban on checks is ten years and it's enforced... if one person really wants to make a respectable trade in commercial life, he knows how to get a check bounced back to him as a bill in commercial life, and everybody knows that. On the other hand, when people go to prison -- and in the past -- come out -- they lie down, they come out -- if they can't afford it, they can't pay the money again. Since he can't pay the fine right now... he's so victimized. He'd get out of jail if he paid the fine. Even if the check is trillions, he doesn't have to pay the check. That person goes to prison because he can't pay this legal fine -- that desperate -- and then he gets away with it. Is it possible for you to put him in prison once more if he is incapable of paying his check? I don't have that either. So, look, here's what's going to protect the creditors, and what's going to protect those debtors is that there's got to be a comfortable system within the economic system where everyone can look at each other, and now we've built it. Why didn't you set it up? We built the Risk Operatoration Center. There's a structure in the Central Bank right now, but it's going to be a structure that shows the active passive together, and only the current system is open to banks, but it's going to be open to everyone. When the person involved gives it to you, it can be opened and seen from there. If a hundred people have cut a check and left 90 of them unrequited, if you're taking his 91st check, you haven't been able to act like a discreet merchant. If the people who cut the check are doing it for the sake of fraud and so on and so forth, then the prison sentence in the Czech Law would be light, and now that there's a special law in this frame, he can't get a ticket, but if there's an intention of fraud, then those who did so will face a heavier punishment than today's fraud. Otherwise, it won't be completely unrequited. And for him, the guarantees don't go away. There's no guarantee at all today when you look at his fine.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0149par0203	Yes, thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are two motions on the matter, I'm going to have the motions read according to the order of arrival first, and then I'm going to process them according to the degree of disparity. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to Czech Law, 137 rows in session, is part of the 2nd Amendment bill. The 3rd Amendment under Article 5941. We propose that the 9th joke added to the clause should be changed in the following way. (9) If the check is not registered within ten years of the date of the printed edition, the amount of responsibility the bank has to pay according to the third joke will be terminated. I'll read and process the current motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to Czech Law, 137 rows in session, is part of the 2nd Amendment bill. We propose and propose that the first joke of the article be changed in the following way. Article 3 of Article 3 of Article 5941 has been changed into the article "10 per cent of the amount mentioned in Article 3" and the following joke has been added in the article "in the report" in the sixth joke. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0150par0216	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0151par0217	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0149par0218	I'm reading the reason: In line with Article 793 of the Turkish Trade Law, the bank's responsibility must produce the results of your sentence. The amount the banks are responsible for should be proportional to the price of the check. That is the principle of modesty. As the amount of the check goes up, the amount of the bank's responsibility stands still, the dignity of the check and thus the power of the check reduces the credibility of the check in business relations. This will have a negative effect on Turkish trade life. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2nd Amendment to Czech Law, 137 rows in session, is part of the 2nd Amendment bill. The 3rd Amendment under Article 5941. We offer and propose that the 9th joke added to the article be changed in the following way. Mahmut Tanal (Istanbul) and his friends (9) If the check is not registered within ten years of the date of the printed edition, the amount of responsibility the bank has to pay according to the third joke will be terminated. Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0152par0229	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0153par0230	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0149par0231	Mr. Dibek, what should we do?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0154par0232	Motive...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0149par0233	I'm reading the reason: Law 5941 has not set a limit on the responsibilities of banks for non-refundable or unrefunded checks. The implementation of the decade, which has a general statute of limitations on the bill, instead of a short period of five years, will be appropriate. Thus, checks are intended to last longer, and customers are intended to be protected, as well as to ensure stability in business relations. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is rejected. I submit the 2nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The title of Article 5 of the Law No. 3 - 5941 has been changed in the form of the ban on opening Czech editing and checking accounts, the charge of legal and criminal responsibility in its third joke, as follows, in the form of the charge of executive sanction, the first and tenth joke of first and fourth, fourth, ninth and eleventh jokes have been removed from effect. According to the date of the regulation written on it, if a check is filed against the court during the notice period, the decision to open a checking account or a checking account on the real or legal person who has a check is made by the Republican prosecutor in six months' time or the bank office where the check has been signed or where the check account is opened or who has a checking account or who has a checking account or is demanding its municipality. The provisions of the Law of Crimes, dated 30/3/2005 and 5326, are applied for the application and objections to the decision against the ban on opening a Czech regulation and checking account. If the application is adopted against the ban on opening a Czech arrangement and checking account, the notice and publication of the 8th joke will be followed in relation to this decision. Afyonkarahisar MP Ahmet Toptaş on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Topstone.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0155par0245	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposals of Mr. Sinan Aygün and Mr. Ali Riza Ozturk to make changes to the Czech Law. On this occasion, I salute the High Council. Members of parliament, the development of economic and commercial life, increasing the need for consumption, supporting the consumption economy, often causing crises in economic life based on the interests of multinational capital, and crises in debt-related relations. In commercial life, the check holds an important place as a means of payment, and especially in times of crisis, it creates thousands of victims. In 1985, a check issued by Law 3167 for the solution to the problems caused by the use of cheques was envisioned in prison for a junkie in case his check was bounced. The Law 5941 then went to arrange a judicial fine instead of a prison sentence. Now, when the check is bounced, he won't be able to get a check card for a ten-year period of sanctioning as a request for the bearer. So there's been a ten-year ban on arranging checks and opening checking accounts. I think we should be very careful and very sensitive when this bill is being drafted. As I have just stated, thousands of tradesmen, traders, industrialists, whose jobs were usually broken during the economic crisis, were unable to pay the price of their check, and they were subjected to forensic surveillance, arrested, jailed, and many of them lost their jobs. So thousands of victims have been exposed because the check he made was unrequited. However, during times of crisis, he did not only victimize people who do cheques. Thousands of people who sell goods and services are now victims, depending on the junkie's check and the sanctions of the laws in effect. We're going to solve the victims and the problems of those who can't pay for the cheques by this law. So, will we be able to deal with the victim's victim's death in exchange for a check? I'm going to read you one of the e-mails from the victims in the position of creditors: three years ago, I had a major bankruptcy due to dozens of unpaid customer checks. I owe six banks over $500,000 now. I'm on the verge of suicide. I wrote to the Prime Minister, I explained my situation, and if you don't help me, it's inevitable that I'll kill myself. I asked for help, and there was nothing to do with the answer I was given. I've been court-martialed for three years, I've done paperwork on unpaid checks, I've paid legal fees, I've paid lawyers and court fees, I've had full debtors come to the stage of paying me for prison, but when they heard that a check bill was being drafted and that it would be legalized, the debtors stopped paying. My business, which I worked day and night for many years, and two homes were sold for execution. My debt is still worth over $500,000. I couldn't collect the customer checks I had. Will the government forgive my debts to the banks, says the citizen. Now, we've lifted the victims of the check addicts by this law. There are people who send this e-mail and send e-mails like thousands of these e-mails, phone calls, and they're very victims. Those who can't just pay the check when the bill is being drafted are not the victims, but also those who can't get the check. For the solution to these people's problems, the government officials, Mr. Secretary, we've read about the legal arrangement; no problems have been solved, no measures have been taken. As our friends in our group have just told us, Mr. Secretary, there is no attempt to compensate for the victims of the check, the creditors. Dear friends, we make this law, we eliminate the victims of thousands of victims, but we also know that we've created thousands of victims. As he talks about the arrangement on the check, Mr. Justice says on a television channel that the judicial fine system is of no use to creditors because the government entered into it and when the check didn't come out, the recipient could not benefit from it if the person who filed a check after the complaint received a fine. But that's not the case. In the past, when he couldn't get a check victim, when he complained to the check dealer that if he was threatened with prison, he would pay a debtor instead of paying the fine to the government, he would get out of prison and he would get out of debt. So I don't think an assessment of this direction is right. So, check victims, I really think that I don't think it's right that there's no effort to solve one of the two victims of a double check, and we've victimized thousands of people. Again, the reason for this legal arrangement should be the economic punishment for economic crime. That's true, but it's not only an economic crime in their to-do relationships, but an economic offense due to the violation of the contract, which is a violation of Article 340 of the Law on Emancipation and Bankruption, other than a check arrangement. The bailiff comes to the debtor's house for execution. In debt or at home, his wife, his mother, his father, under the threat of doing algebra, is committed to a amount and a period of commitment from his creditor to keep his belongings from leaving the house. And when he doesn't pay for his commitment under the threat of an act of charity, there's a prison sentence against him for violation of his commitment. Thousands of examples of this are in prison, and there are thousands of victims. If it comes from the contract, since we accept the basis of economic punishment for economic crime, which has become an international standard, I expect the High Assembly to make a provision for the violations of commitments, and for those criminals and those victims to be rescued from their victims. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0156par0257	Thank you, Mr. Topstone. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Mehmet Shandır.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0157par0260	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute your grand delegation. We are negotiating the amendment to the Czech Law. Dear friends, this matter occupied our Assembly in the 23rd century, and we also made an arrangement that delayed the implementation of the arrangement on this matter. Now, the TVs are off, so I'm just saying besides the fact that the issue's polymix is being discussed on the floor of the counter-industrial friction. The job of politics is to predict the future and to create balanced and fair solutions to the solution to possible problems. Now, that's what we discussed with the Minister about the question-answer. Today, we're discussing a problem, a social problem, and we're discussing a problem that hurts a heart, and we're discussing a two-way problem: one of them is talking about economic problems -- a number of reasons -- but because of the economic policies that have been imposed on him -- but even because of the global crises, he couldn't pay his check, so he was locked up, followed, separated from his children, and sent messages to our phones, e-mail addresses every day, and we're talking about the problem of our citizens who say, "Aman, help." There's another one who's become a victim of a check because he doesn't get the check he's getting in return for the property he's given, so he can't collect a check because he's a victim of a check or because he can't afford it. That's our problem. We can't solve this problem in that manner, Mr. Secretary. None of your excuses are justified. To predict these days... the numbers are in the middle, and you're saying the numbers, so today the courts are blocked: you're saying that there's 59,000 files, and you're saying that there's no check. So what's happening in society about these things is that even now, the citizens who are watching us get it right, they get it wrong, but they get worried by making sense out of every sentence they're saying here. Therefore, the problem is that the political government, which rules the country on behalf of the nation rather than on the basis of citizens, has not taken sufficient and necessary measures in its time. If we can't solve problems by changing laws every time, by organizing law, if we're expanding problems, if we're postponing problems, then we can't do our jobs. Dear friends, do you realize that we've been changing laws ever since the election -- and I'm telling you from my new friends who've just joined the life force -- we've been changing laws. We're changing the law here because a previous law cannot be defined correctly, because it cannot contribute to the solution of the problem, because it cannot contribute permanently. Well, we don't have the right. So even a member of this nation's problem must be our problem. That's why we insist on asking the Minister, so have you thought about an insurance fund, or do you? He says, "No." I mean, why not? The centre, created at the Central Bank last year, will be operational by February 2012, which is unclear as to the consequences, dear friends. For him, I insist that even one person's problem should be important to us. Besides, I don't think it's right to try to solve this social problem with this kind of hand-to-hand, trial and error method. It does not suit this Parliament, especially the ruling party that has been responsible for running the country for three terms, or at this point earned the trust of the nation and came here. We, the National Movement Party, have been constantly talking about the demands of listening to the problems of people who have been involved in procedural checks and following legal questions and developing solutions to these victims. I've spoken many times: "Come, let the problems of these victims of the check be solved. " We didn't sign up for opposition when this law was discussed on the commission. But it's really hard to understand this cool stance of power in the face of a new trial with a trial and error that doesn't solve the issue. Dear lawmakers, the problem is not one-way, the problem is multi-directional, and there is no first-degree responsibility or responsibility for the problem's problems. As a result of economic policies, even as a result of global crises, it is for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to be more careful about it and to establish the law to come up with solutions, first with power and then with opposition from Turkey. We, the National Movement Party, do not approve of the government's approach to such problems. So we're trying to express the problem in many ways, in two ways. Otherwise, as the National Movement Party, we're affected by the fact that even one person is suffering from a child's failure to get back to his father tonight. I don't even think it's necessary to say that. But we can't swallow a law order that corrupts the core of the system, which we do every once in a while -- a regulation that we're going to have to fix tomorrow. But in spite of everything, we, the National Movement Party, will contribute to solving the problem, even if it is one of our people who is being followed because of a bad check. That's what everyone should know. So we have more to talk about. Of course our friends will talk. Let's hope we finish the law next week. I wish, after all, that this law contributes to the solution to this problem, and I give all of you my regards.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0158par0270	Thank you, Mr. Shandir. Moving on to QA. Dear Light...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0159par0273	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've just said, especially without a fund like a check guarantee fund or a check insurance fund, there's no way to compensate for the victims inside or the people out there who want to get a check for them because they're committed to going in. Victims who are now said to have exceeded hundreds of thousands are only out there because they've been committed for two years. Even if this law comes out today, they won't be able to pay for it again tomorrow. In order to find a solution to this, there must be an obligation to establish such a fund with a motion and to have banks partnered in it. I'll remind you one more time. We can't solve this problem any other way. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0160par0277	Mr. Longwalk...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0161par0278	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, of course, you're not a minister in charge of the economy, but we actually need to direct it to him. What's the GDP check rate? That's my first question. My second question is, what does the check, which is used as the average average and quantity per year in Turkey, correspond to the annual average of the check that returns in the economy and also to what in the right proportion? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0162par0283	Mr. Secretary, come in.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0163par0284	Thank you. The question Mr. Longırmak says now requires some economic data. Right now, my friends... right now, of course, have the number of 2010. As of 2010, the amount of the check that was submitted to the Interbanks Exchange Rooms Centre is as much as the amount of money in circulation, so the amount of the check signed to the Exchange Chamber is 245 billion 185 million 862 thousand, and the amount of money in circulation is 40 billion 67m 386,000 euros; the amount of the amount of the amount of money in the exchange rooms is 6.2. So I hope that's the answer. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0164par0287	Here you go, Mr. Longhorn.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0165par0288	Mr. Minister, I said "gayrisafi domestic product ratio" I didn't say "fashionable amount."
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0163par0289	So right now, I don't have any other data besides that, Mr. Tallie, that's what I've got right now. Let's answer him in writing.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0165par0290	Okay, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask you one more question. There's time. Which side do you think you were on in the definition of "madurdur" when you were organizing this bill as a government? Are you on the side of the junkie, the one who can't collect his check? Which one is the victim from your point of view? On which side do you describe this bill? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0166par0293	We're neutral, we want you to know that. We're determined to do what's right. Look, I'm looking at a figure of about 2.81 percent when I look at the figure of 11 months in 2011, where checks that have now been bounced are in total withdrawals in Turkey. So these numbers are 5.2 in 2005. In 2001, we see that this number is higher. Now, the results of economic policies carried out by EC PARTY governments in Turkey have brought this rate down every year. The 2011 figure is 2.81 per cent per month. That's what I'm offering. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0167par0297	Mr. Halaman...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0168par0298	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Minister a question: there are victims of this check, and there are non-victims. But usually it's the banks that make money when they're making checks. Why don't you put banks in this when you write this law? Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0169par0301	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0170par0302	Mr. President, there are banks involved in this, and if the bill is read, it will be seen. Banks are also obliged to pay a thousand dollars for every check leaf that goes unrequited. Banks are involved. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0169par0304	There's a motion on matter that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the following sentence be added to Article 5 of Article 5 of the Czech Law, which is envisioned for the amendment to the Czech Law on 137 rows, shall be replaced by Article 3 of the framework. 'The ban on setting up a check and opening a checking account, according to this joke, is also issued in the event of fraud, fraud, or other crimes committed in the document, as a result of setting up a check for the transaction.' Is the commission in?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0171par0309	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0169par0310	Does the government agree?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0172par0311	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0173par0312	Read the reason, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0169par0313	I'm reading the reason: The third joke of Article 15 of Article 5326, dated 30/3/2005, is that if a verb is defined as both a crime and a crime, it is only an act of sanction. With the legislation of the bill, the judicial sanction for the misdemeanor of making a bad check will become an administrative sanction. There is no hesitation in the fact that a fraud can be committed against those who profit in the intention of deceiving a person by mischarging a bad check. After the removal of judicial sanctions, the charge must also be made clear if a crime should be committed, as well as the regulation of the check made, and the ban on opening a check and checking account must be imposed. This motion has been made in the same order as the check was issued, and in the case of fraud or any other crime committed at the same time, in accordance with the general provisions of the crime, as well as in order to rule that the 5th article of the Czech Law, according to the first joke, will be issued a no-check order to open a check and check account. The President of the Commission has a request to make amends. Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0174par0322	Mr. President, we would like to ask that the 10th article of the 5th amendment to this clause be corrected in writing.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0169par0323	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I submit the item to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. MADDE 4-5941 has been changed in the following way, along with Article 6 of the Law. ▪ Remove the ban on opening Czech editing and checking account MADDE 6- (1) The unpaid check price, according to the regulation date on the check, will be lifted by the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the case of a full payment of the interest on default interest in trade jobs, according to Law No. 3095, which will be carried out from the date of the regulation on the check. It is announced to the Turkish Central Bank that the ban on opening a Czech regulation and checking account has been lifted according to procedure in Article 8 of Article 5 and is announced. (2) The first joke sentence is carried out in the event the request to appeal to the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office is revoked. (3) The registration on the ban on opening a Czech regulation and checking account will be deleted by the Turkish Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey by 10 years after the registration has been entered, and this action will be declared. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Articles, Mr Mehmet Ali Sesam, İzmir MP.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0175par0333	Mr. President, I've been promised a bill of law, known publicly as the Czech Law, and I salute you all. Our friends from the Justice and Development Party have just submitted a motion and voted on the motion. Before the vote, I asked Mr. Canikli, and he gave it to me. One of the things about this motion is that it's shyly, in this business, to try to enforce sanctions on people who are psychologically giving bad checks. And I'm telling you this because, really, in the Justice and Development Party, our friends from inside the market are confused about this law, and I know it's been discussed a lot. I know the ministers in the group are presenting. I know we have friends who bring the right advice, but I want to point out some things here: it's a law on results. Why don't we want to add water to this law, like our friends who just talked? With respect to their opinion, I would like to say that no one's heart would stand for a man to spend one day in prison, but no man's heart would stand the loss of a man's work, a man's job, a man's debtor's loss. Now, when the balance of all of this is set, how did the check come out, what does the check function in the economic market, and why does it matter? When you change this law, it doesn't matter who goes to jail and who goes out, it's what happens next in economic life. Dear friends, why is a check important? Because a check is a payment device that is largely guaranteed to collect money for the people who buy it, but I'll also say that the reason why the check is so different in the market than in the world is because businesses in Turkey lack operating capital, honest and honest people have created business capital for themselves by paying their checks on the day. People who pay their checks seriously, even though their money, business capital is missing, because of his promise, are respected in the market, he buys goods, sells goods, and in that sense he is able to make a higher turnover with less capital in trade, and therefore the check has made itself an important means of payment. Now, if you eliminate trust in the check in this market, you're going to create a serious problem in the market. If the market doesn't trust the check, if there's no security in the check, many people who are literally short of capital can't use a check, and so when they can't use the check, their turnovers and volumes fall very seriously. This law had to be prepared, considering all of this. That's why I asked Mr. Secretary here, but he couldn't answer because he wasn't the minister in charge of the economy. When you passed that law, what you had to do was put the insurance system here. If you don't want to drive the economy out of control, maintain the reputation of the check in the market, not victimize the creditor, and not put it in a check debt, that's the mechanism that could arrange all of this. It's very easy to do, but I'm afraid that's not the case with the bankers and the elders. What could be done, for example: I write the check to the bank when the bank's client writes the check. I send it to the bank in electronics, and all the banks have insurance companies -- if you had an institution, and then the debtor would do it knowing that the check is insurance, but the banking system is running away from it. So, like leeks, why is he giving everyone ten credit cards and 20 credit cards? Because he's making so much money off his credit card that he's comparing his earnings to his loss because the amount of money he's making is so low that he's making, because he's making so much money that he's making so much money that he's making so much money that he's willing to use a credit card. That's the point where he does what he has to do. If we set up the insurance system, we would also have recorded the off-the-book economy, the check system would have been on the record, and the government would have had a serious stake in it. Even if you don't refer to that in this law today, I'm warning you: try to establish this fund with the Ministry of Economics, with the Central Bank, with the Bank of Banks as soon as possible. So people who take a check and trust a check, people who work with a check, when the check doesn't come out, sell his wife's bracelet, sell his house, sell his land, and do it to pay for themselves. We're not supposed to victimize those people. So it's clear that without a garantator system in place, the check will have serious problems in the market. But there are a lot of well-intentioned people who were victims of the check, and I'm not neglecting them, and I believe that. There are people who exported, couldn't get the money for exports for any other reason than political events, whose system completely collapsed and fell in because they couldn't pay for their checks. So that's the important thing that subsidizes this system -- you would save those people from being victimized, you would make the check respectable in the economic market, and you would develop people's checks and trade volumes, and you would have a good reputation in the market. They may not be able to tell you, but I know this as a person in the market, but despite all of this, I don't object to the fact that from most of the important institutions of TESK, that a check law like this is going to create a recession in the market, that it's going to make economic life very difficult, and that we're going to be in search of new things at the point of fixing it, and that we're going to be in the market, and that, despite all of that, I don't want to add water to that, I don't want to object to this law coming out today, but I'm warning you, as a government, take your precautions. Set up this fund, set up this insurance system, make the check respectable, and do it now. When you delay, there will be so much trouble in the market that everyone will have to take very serious measures under the burden of being born. The market is broken by the law, but it's not easy to fix with the law. The market has its own rules, it introduces itself, regulates itself, and finds a way to follow them. So, my dear friends, I believe that this law does not find very serious supporters inside the Justice and Development Party, but beyond whether or not it finds supporters, in a law that can play with the dynamics of the market, I offer once again your attention with a sense of opposition, a sense of responsibility, a sense of opposition, a sense of opposition, and I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0176par0342	Thank you, Mr. Sesame. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kütahya MP Mr. Alim Ilk. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Light.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0177par0346	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the 4th Amendment to the Czech Law, which is being held in 137 rows. On this occasion, I would like to salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first of all, where did this come from? Why do we have to make this law today? We need to understand it well first. Now, given the background on the procedural check verb, those who performed the procedural check cut until 1985 were being punished for fraud, and that was considered within the scope. This verb was sentenced to prison between 1985 and 2003, which was the result of an application in 2003, which, from the beginning of the time of AKP's solo administration of Turkey, doubles the debt to those who cut the check and then can't be paid with interest of the principal, three to four to five. As of 2003, a person who owed 10,000 liras to a person who couldn't pay it, the state first changed the $10,000 to a legal fine. This citizen first sold his property, his cow, his calf, paid the state his $10,000, and then the main money couldn't touch it. Ten thousand liras became 20, 25, 30 years of interest, and it reached the point of detonation until 2009. It was before the 2009 local elections, before the general elections in 2011, and despite all our insistences, despite our warnings, the power is for a palliative solution; come, make a commitment, I will pay this debt in two years. Say, "We got you all out of prison." Is it true? Right. Now, at the end of March, it's time for this two-year deadline to max out, and hundreds of thousands of people are out, out of prison, or out of prison, for making a commitment, but because he can't find the fine and the other money, he doesn't know what to do right now because he lost his job. Now, once again, with a palliative solution, Mr. Government has brought this bill to our attention, saying, "Let's find a new arrangement that will take place in these upcoming elections by now, until 2017. " Dear lawmakers, that's not a solution. Look, tomorrow there will be screaming at our door, at your doors, at all of our doors. There's a solution to this: 1) Is the fine being lifted? Resolving. Thank you. Do people get away without going to prison? He's getting away. None of us would be willing to let one person wait at home without seeing their father in prison. That's the right law, but it doesn't solve the problem. Now you're trying to save people who are about to go to prison, 20 or 20 days from now, who are going to be put in prison, but these people have lost their jobs, many of these people are fugitives, many of these people have tried for years to find the fine of criminal money, they haven't been able to pay off their debt to the state, they've still put up their mother money. You don't cut the main money here, and when he goes to court tomorrow, he'll be processed with the principal interest. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have our work cut out for us. Let's set up a check guarantee fund or a check insurance fund, and let's get the banks here to share with us at least one-third of the risk. Otherwise, the bank gives you a check, $600... in 2009, you've already offered the thousand liras the Deputy Prime Minister said. And then you withdraw the motion from here, the Banks Association has printed it down to $600, and there's no point in saying we're sharing a thousand lira bank per check leaf again. So to share a thousand liras, 50 thousand liras, 150 grand in check leaves, not to share the bank. We need to bring an arrangement to share the bank with at least one third. Otherwise, there's no way we can pull this off. I'm asking, I've specifically asked Mr. Secretary: How much money have you collected in the state's vault under the name of the fine since 2003, and how much money have you given to these victims? You didn't give me any. So, from now on, a fund will be created with a sum of money that will be cut off from these banks and other sources of the state. This fund will be used for the following purpose: he survived entering the prison, but he has no power to repay his debt. These people will come, and you will use it to support these people, just like you -- and you will use it as a guarantee -- to support these people, or, for some reason, the loss of the person on the other side, who didn't get the check. Are these people... Now, for the sake of populism alone, see, we saved you from going to prison. You're bringing this law here because 15 or 20 days later, this law came here to blow up in front of us all at the end of March. We've been saying this for six months, a year, two years. That doesn't solve the problem. Let's find a radical solution to solve this problem, and with a motion here, we'll set up this fund -- at least on Tuesday, Wednesday -- and everyone will be happy. Now, from one side, let's not victimize those who have the money for the check, the people who are going to take the money. Let's not give it a chance. People aren't watching us right now, we're watching each other, but that's the solution. Mr. Group Vice President, we must solve this - Mr. Minister of Justice - next Tuesday, we must solve it on Wednesday. Or we'll talk about this problem again. We're going to talk about it again before the election, and it's going to come back next year, so we're going to talk about it again before the local elections, because it's not a solution to something that affects a population that reaches millions and hundreds of thousands of cases. So this solution, just today, as I just said, as of April 1st, 2012, is a solution to the end of the deadline, but it's not a radical solution. That's why we have to figure this out. There is the essence of what I'm talking about here in Law 5941, which was already released in 2009. And that was our suggestion for that day -- Mr. Yilmaz mentioned my name, and I thank him for my name -- since 2009, we've been one of the people who's been working on the solution to this issue. The fine must have been lifted, I thank you, whether it's late or not, ten years later, after creating so many victims, the right decision was made, and this was lifted. But the fact that it's being lifted and the prison sentence in the check is being lifted makes it look like it's saving those who are going to jail, but it doesn't. These people will face other victims this time as a result of administrative surveillance. So we have to figure this out. There's only one solution, only one way to think about it. In this law that we've brought forward, we're sure to speak of... the name of the Fund can be changed, based on what I call the Credit Guarantee Fund, it can be a check insurance fund, it can be a check guarantee fund, but we're going to make sure that this fund has at least 33% of the banks as partners. We have many resources, such as money and so on, to share the risk, to share the blessing, and at the unemployment fund, which the state has taken from other sources. We're going to transfer some from that source, and we're going to need to get rid of an immediate and victimized population right now, or we're just going to stop going to the prison. It's not a solution. So I'd like to share that thought with you in this article. I especially thank you precious lawmakers who have been listening and patiently watching us at this late hour, and I wish the law to be good after all, but I believe there will be a law that will make us all happy when these shortcomings are resolved. We're all getting messages right now, from the Internet and other channels, but they're all just happy that the prison's up, but getting out doesn't mean the problem's solved. When he comes to his senses tomorrow, when he starts to think normal, they'll know it's not a solution, but we need to make it a normal solution, and this Parliament is capable of solving this problem. With his power, with his opposition, with his rational approaches, we'll solve this problem, and I believe on Wednesday, hopefully, this problem will be solved by the fact that this law is out of the House. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0178par0360	Thank you, Mr. Light. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Giresun MP Nurettin Canikli. Here you go, Mr. Canikli.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0364	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear friends, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, it's a difficult issue, and it's a good point to say it first, so some of the suggestions brought up by many of our friends, the experts, who know the market very well, have all been discussed, all of them evaluated. There's no suggestion that you don't consult while you're working on it, that you don't get tired. I'm very clear, and I know, on purpose, that no suggestion that didn't come up was considered in all its dimensions, even after it came to the General Assembly, it was reviewed again and again. It's a tough subject. Now, there's a two-sided victimization, and I'm going to mention that a little bit later, but before that, I'd like to share this matter with you before I think my time might run out. The fund issue is one of them -- the creation of an insurance fund, or the creation of a similar fund -- and this is the way to get these unrequited, unrequited checks from this fund. As a matter of fact, it's one of the suggestions that our friends have just suggested and that we've been working very hard before. Now, in order for this to be realized, we need to be able to finance the numbers on the table that we're going to put in now. About 300 billion liras a year is made up of checks in Turkey, so that's about a quarter or so of the national income -- more than one-quarters, close to one-third.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0180par0369	Don't say national income, define it correctly!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0370	It is, yes.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0180par0371	Don't say national income, define it correctly!
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0372	That's the number, that's the number, that's the official number, so please, Mr. Ali... Our Deputy Prime Minister just gave us some of the numbers, and as of the last 2011 figures, about 3 percent of them are still going against it, but it's changing depending on the conjunctural. So it's particularly economic activity, depending on the economic developments, the challenges, it goes down, it goes out; it goes up to 7 percent, it can be more, it can land, it's on a landing trend right now. Of course, now that a fund like this is created, that's going to go up, that's definitely going to go up. I mean, what number? The number of unrequited checks goes up. Why? Because the amount of checks in the system goes up a lot because it's kind of a loan, you know, it's very easy for people to access, the business world to...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0181par0374	The loan won't go unrequited, Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0375	If you'll excuse me. It's a loan he can reach. So we can't make a firm estimate of $300 billion today, of course, but at least, to me, it's going to increase by 50 percent, it's going to increase naturally, because there's a guarantee, and there's an insurance fund, and if it's not paid, it's going to be very easy from both the buyer's point of view and from the junkie's point of view, it's going to become a more guaranteed mechanism, and it's going to provide as much unlimited credit as it wants. It's a cheap loan. Why? He doesn't give mortgages in return or suffer any financial inconveniences like this. What this means is that the ratio that is 3% today goes up to at least 10 percent, so it goes up to 450 billion dollars, and today it goes up to 450 billion dollars -- a multimillion dollars -- over a transaction-term check. It's a very rude calculation... of course, this fund will have its resources. Where will it be? There's gonna be a bonus, so there's gonna be money somewhere. If it doesn't come from the treasure, it's going to be cut, so if it's going to be a fund, let's say it's going to be a check per check, or let's figure out that we're paying for it from the treasure, at least 45 billion dollars a year, 45 quadrillion dollars for this job alone. You have to channel 45 quadrillion liras into a very rough calculation -- operating costs, other things -- here. For such a suggestion, the source of this money must be found. Public consent is required to transfer the taxpayer's money there. This is a very important number. An example has been given: the money cut to the unemployment insurance fund. Its purpose is defined, its owner is defined, it is used for what purposes, you can change it beyond the law, but from whomever it comes from, it has a say on that money. So, I'm going to take 45 billion dollars from here...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0182par0378	We passed the law and passed it to the Gap. We've used the money in a lot of different places so far.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0379	He's gone into investments, he's on his way, et cetera, et cetera. So 45 billion...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0182par0380	That's where it goes.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0381	Those two are very different. So not if you're using the funds from that Fund to fund checks that aren't paid for.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0183par0382	The insurance system has a chance to create its own financing.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0182par0383	Mr. President, we used this for social support in the southeast before the election. Come on, now! We need to be realistic.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0384	Let's make the bank a partner. What will the bank do? The bank has come to its fullest cost...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0182par0385	We use it there, but why don't we use it here?
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0386	Allow me, teacher, allow me. What's it gonna cost? It'll reflect, it'll reflect naturally. That's the rule of the economy, guys. So we have to be realistic. What's he gonna do? It will reflect all of its transactions, banking operations, especially this process.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0184par0388	He's a helpless guardian who's going to get a weak shot.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0389	And he's going to do this: if we put in a bonus, look, a bonus, if a charge comes in, then the bank is going to do this: one, it's going to make it incredibly limited to a check. Because he's responsible. If the check goes unrequited, one third will be responsible for its own account, and he himself will pay. Naturally, what kind of reflex would the bank have in store for that? He'll be very sensitive. What's he gonna do? He'll choose the people he'll give checks to. In fact, he'll be looking for collateral when he makes a check, asking for a mortgage. There are two outcomes: one, it will bring an incredible cost to the business world. Two, more importantly, there will be a significant decline in the amount of checks used in the market. So, who's gonna get hurt by this reduction? The little shopkeeper will get hurt, the one who gets a check when he buys the goods. We know it's usually a small tradesman's place where it's common to use a check in the future. Why? Because the great tradesman is already taking assurances, setting off other security mechanisms. But he's giving it to the shopkeeper, and he's the dealer, the dealer. When you do something like this, so when the bank narrows down its amount of checks to the market for this reason, it will be the first to be affected, the first to experience shock is the small tradesman. Why? He's not getting a check. Because the bank is cutting down, the bank wants a letter of collateral to give a check, or they want a mortgage, or they want something else. How many people can make that possible? Even if there is, there's an additional cost. So, look, how far this proposal goes, how much side effects there are. So even if you finance it, you're going to cut at least 10 per cent of the premium by cutting one-third of the check holders to the bank and two-thirds to the bank. Look at my racket, it's a 10 per cent bonus because it's direct in exchange for a cash loan. And secondly, maybe today you're going to cut the volume of the transaction, the volume of the trade, half the volume of the trade on the check. We're going to have a very serious contraction in the economy right now, because it's actually the money that's being created, so we're doing the exchange function, which is one of the three important functions of money, by way of a check, and we're actually creating some kind of cash. Oh, it's unique to Turkey, so there's a balance like this in the economy, so there's nothing wrong with it. So, as you can see, it narrows down the economy, it hits the small tradesman, it brings an incredible financial burden... that you say, theoretically, okay, let's do that, but when you go into a little detail, you see how the painting changes, and it's almost impossible to get it going, dear friends. So -- at the beginning of my speech -- believe me, this is the most optimal arrangement possible. All of it, all of it, all of it. Otherwise, why wouldn't something like that be done? Why shouldn't we? As a result, of course, both sides are victims. Those who can't pay, those who go to jail, those who face the threat of prison, and those who have a check on the other hand, who have a check on the side, who have a check on the side, who are forced to collect or can't, of course, are as much victims as the others. What are we trying to do? We passed a motion, it's just been expressed, okay, not a complete solution, but it's psychological. How, what's the power behind the money? Money is paper, but because it has government support, it's accepted because it has the support of the state's public authority, and so is this. Psychologically, we're trying to activate psychological factors. Here's another motion, hopefully, in a little while. We're trying to increase the six-month statute of limitations to three years in a check, and as a valuable document, we're trying to get him to process and perform longer. Oh, we're not saying that these solve 100 percent, look, we're saying that, but no suggestion has ever been made -- including the suggestions that we discussed here just now -- certainly not solved the problem, but it will make it even more severe, and so far it will completely shut down the way to being a cheap and non-profit loan mechanism for the small tradesman. So we have to do all of this by calculating the back of it, dear friends. But let's just say, look, hopefully now that this mechanism is activated -- so it's already activated -- we're trying to figure out the system, the check editing, and the people who lack creditability to pay them on time, the ones who don't have enough sensitivity to this -- or, for that reason, the way that they're going to be removed from the market. It's the right way. It may not work out from today to tomorrow, but it will definitely solve the problem in the middle and in the long run. How's he gonna figure it out? Let's say, three years from now, in this period of time, those who don't pay for a check will enter the system as a person of interest, in this sense -- in this sense, in this sense -- in this sense, in this particular way -- in the form of creditability -- will enter as a poor person, and there will be a check ban on this person. Besides, even if he pays later and gets out of the ban when he pays, because he gets out of the ban - pull again... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0185par0398	No, we haven't, so far, okay.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0399	Yes, yes, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0185par0401	So we're saying we can't break that rule.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0402	Okay, okay, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0186par0403	It's your own rule.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0179par0404	I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0187par0406	Okay, fine. Thank you. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Canicli, on behalf of the individuals...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0188par0409	Mr. President, if you don't have one, I'd like to talk to you for five minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0187par0410	No, I do. I'm counting. I thought maybe he'd like to switch places with his friends, Mr. Canicli.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0411	No, it's on behalf of the individuals, but if that friend turns over, verbally, I'll take it.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0188par0412	If they hand it over, I have a suggestion, if they'll excuse me.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0413	I had a few sentences, Mr. President, and if you'll excuse me, let's finish them that way.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0190par0414	We've got two minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0415	Let's not break the rule.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0190par0416	No, there's already two minutes left. That's what you can get for your completion.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0417	Okay. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0190par0419	Here you go.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0420	What happens in a few years? That way, friends without sensitivity, people out of the market, people out of the market. And as the system goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Oh, I'm not saying from today to tomorrow. Our distress is a period of transition. We're trying to get past him with these psychological factors. Otherwise, you can't handle a prison sentence -- because there are these kinds of demands. Basically, when you look at it, it says that some of our friends, the ones with the check: I took this check, and I gave it to them with confidence in the prison sentence behind it, and I took my property and the check. So you're now changing the rules of the game in the middle of the game. Don't do that. He's right, he's right. I told you, it's a tough subject, but on the other hand, 600 thousand files, at least 100,000 people face the threat of prison. Another aspect of the work is that this verb, in this current practice, is not a major part of the verbs that require jail time, which are not inadmissible, in order not to pay for it. The vast majority of them have also emerged in terms of the needs of commercial life, inevitably emerging, and sometimes conjuncturally again -- for example, look, in 2009, our exports were reduced by about 22 percent due to the global crisis. It's nobody's fault. The tribulation in Europe also reflected on us, where people began to buy less Turkish goods, so there was trouble. What did our exporters do when they were 22 percent less than cash intakes? They couldn't pay their checks, they had nothing to do with it. It's the natural thing about commercial life. That's what we're talking about here, when we say "victory." Otherwise, if he's doing it deliberately, intentionally, to cheat, he's already guilty of fraud under general provisions, and we're drawing attention to him with the motion already accepted. We're drawing attention to the entire system. Oh, I mean, even if it's not him, it's already done, but to demonstrate a sensitivity, to reflect the will in this matter...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0190par0423	Mr. Canikli, one moment. Mr. Hatib has three minutes, but we're out of time for those three minutes...
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0425	Okay, that's okay, I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0190par0426	I mean, we have to take a vote. I was gonna extend it for three minutes.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0189par0427	Thank you, Mr. President, with all due respect.
tbmm-2012-01-26sit04spe0190par0429	[[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Thank you. So it was intended to fulfill the Civil Code. On Tuesday (January 31, 2012), it is 15 p.m. to discuss other tasks from the commissions with the bill and proposals -- according to the decision received. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
